slLe  covy~R ES TR IC TE D
FILE    COPY             Report No. P-58
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR THE
LILONGWE AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 22, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTTVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR THE LILONGWE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Lilongwe agricultural development credit in an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to US $6 million to the Republic of Malawi.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In January 1967, the Government applied for IDA assistance for
the financing of an agricultural improvement scheme, situated near
Lilongwe, a major agricultural center in the Central Region. The project
submission was prepared for the Government by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program and the Agricultural Development Service (ADS) with financial
assistance from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The pro-
ject was appraised by an IDA mission in May 1967.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington during the second
half of November 1967. The Malawi negotiating team was led by The Honor-
able John Tembo, Minister of Finance, and included Messrs. K. J. Barnes,
Secretary to the Treasury, R. J. Dewar, Secretary of the newly created
Ministry of Economic Affairs, R. Katengeza, General Manager of the
Farmers Marketing Board and C. R. Nottidge, Chief Agricultural Develop-
ment Officer.
4.        Previous IDA lending in Malawi consisted of a US $490,000 equiva-
lent highway engineering credit (S2-MAI, signed October 4, 1966) of which
$169,000 was undisbursed as of December 31, 1967, and a US $6.3 million
equivalent credit for an education project (102-MAI, signed May 4, 1967),
which is in the design stage and for which disbursements are not scheduled
until later this year.
5.        I am submitting this project simultaneously with separate pro-
posals for a US $11.5 million equivalent highway credit which includes
the proposed refunding of the US $490,000 equivalent engineering credit
S2-MAI mentioned above, and a US $3.7 million equivalent credit for
another agricultural development project in the Shire Valley in Southern
Malawi. No further credit proposals      are expected to be submitted to
the Executive Directors in the near future; a power project might be next
in line, possibly in the second half of 1968.
6.        There have been no IFC investments in Malawi.



PART II - DESCRIPTICN OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.        Borrower:             Republic of -ialawi.
Parpose:              To help--finance a first 4-year phase
of a 13-year integrated agricultural
development program, aiming at produc-
tion increases of maize and groundnuts
in an area of ultimately 500,000 acres.
Amount:               Various currencies equivalent to US $6
million.
Amortization:         50 years, including a 10-year period
of grace, in semi-annual installments
beginning on April 1, 1978 and ending
on October 1,2017.
Service Charge:       3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report on the proposed project ,entitled  'Lilongwe Agricul-
tural Development Project" (TO-610a dated January 3, 1968), is attached.
9.        The Lilongwe proposal, together with the Shire Valley proposal,
which is submitted separately, would represent the Association's first
financial assistance to agriculture in Malawi, the sector which offers
the main potential for economic growth. In the densely popu-
lated areas of Central and Southern Malawi, where these two projects are
located, the continued long-term growth of cash crop production by
African smallholders can no longer be maintained, as in the past, by an --
expansion of the area under cultivation, but must be based to an increas-
ing extent on higher yields per acre. Successful pilot schemes have
demonstrated the economic viability of more intensive agriculture, which
requires a highly concentrated extension effort supported by investment
in soil conservation, access roads, water supplies, marketing and storage
facilities, and the provision of credit for the purchase of farm inputs
and simple agricultural equipment. This integrated approach is considered
an effective way of promoting increased production in Ialawi where more
technically advanced capital intensive projects cannot be undertaken yet
on a widespread basis.
10.    - The proposed credit consists of the partial financing of a
first 4-year phase, involving 163,000 acres, of a 13-year integrated
agricultural improvement program ultimately covering 500,000 acres near



Lilongwe. The aim of the program is to raise the present production of
maize and groundnuts while maintaining the output of tobacco. The
growth in production will be achieved by increasing yields per acre and
by making effective use of all suitable land. Yield increases are
expected to result from the application of fertilizers, together with
improved cultivation and weeding practices. The introduction of these
techniques through extension will be supported by the closely integrated
development of rural infrastructure, the provision of supervised farm
credit service, reorganization of holdings and registration of titles to
land.
11.       About one-third of the proposed credit would be directed
towards the financing of extension staff whose qualifications and
experience will be of vital importance for project implementation. Be-
cause of the shortage of trained Malawian staff, it will be necessary
to employ a high proportion of non-Malawians initially. However, speci-
fic provision has been made for in-service training of local staff.
12.       The credit scheme for farm inputs will be partly administered
by the Farmers Marketing Board (FMB). The FMB is a semi-autonomous pub-
lic corporation charged with buying and selling smallholder crops for
which it maintains and operates organized markets. In the project area,
farmers are obliged to sell their crops at these markets, which will en-
able the FMB to collect farmers' credit repayments as a deduction from
the proceeds of their crop sales.
13.       Overall responsibility for the implementation of the project
would be assumed by a newly created Agricultural Development Branch set
up within the Department of Agriculture of the Ministry of Economic
Affairs. The Branch is headed by a Chief Agricultural Development Offi-
cer recruited from the Agricultural Development Service (ADS) in Nairobi.
14.       The cost of the project is estimated at US $7 million equiva-
lent. The estimate includes an additional contingency provision which
allows for cost variations as a possible result of the recent devalua-
tion of the Malawi pound. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
$3.6 million or 51 percent. The proposed credit of US $6.0 million
equivalent would cover 86 percent of the estimated total cost. I con-
sider that Malawi's poverty and the efforts it is making in managing its
resources justify the financing of this proportion of the project's costs.
15.       Contracts for the construction of housing, the purchase of
vehicles, major equipment and farm inputs will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Imports made specifically for the
project will be exempt from import duties. The project is expected to
be completed by January 1972.



- 4 -
16.       The project has been economically evaluated as the first phase
of the whole 13-year development program, as well as on the basis of its-
own merits. Costs and benefits relating to the entire 500,000 acre, 13-
year program would result in a rate of return to the economy of about
13 percent. If lack of funds should prevent the continuance of the program
beyond the first 4-year phase, the rate of return from this reduced area
would still represent about 9 percent. This is judged satisfactory,
especially since much of the- initial investment of phase I will also serve
subsequent phases of the 13-year program.
17.       Among the non-quantifiable, indirect benefits of the project
and of the expected continuation of the development program until the
thirteenth year is the value added to economic activities in other sec-
tors, Other benefits would be realized by land reorganization and
registration designed to encourage farmers to regard their land as a
productive asset to be maintained and improved rather than merely a
plot of soil to be exploited for the minimum means of existence. It is
from the training of Malawian agriculturalists within the extension   -
service, however, as well as from the spreading transformation of atti-
tude of the Malawian farmers, that the most important benefits of the
development program are expected to result.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Nalawi and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V. Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
190       The draft Development Credit Agreement includes, among others,
the provisions that Iallawi shall relend a part of the proceeds of the
Credit to FMB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(Section 4.02(a)) and that Malawi shall continue to carry out the extens-
ion services and the credit scheme for a period of four years after the
completion of the Project (Section 4.06).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       A report entitled  "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Malawi" (No,AF-68a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 22, 1967. Brief comments on the economy and-the justification-for
lending by the Association are contained in my report, dated January 22,
1968, on a proposed development credit for a highway project.



PART VI - COMPLIANCE WTTH ARTTCIES OF AGREE1,ENT
21.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would com-
ply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO14M>EIATIONS
22.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
Resolution No. IDA
Approval of a Development Credit to the lRepublic of
Malawi in an amount equivalent to US $6,00o,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Malawi in an amount in various currencies equivalent to Six
Killion United States Dollars (US $6,000,000) to mature on and -prior to
October 1, 2017, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of the Development Credit Agreement
(Lilongwe Agricultural Development Project), between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment:
Washington, D.C,
January 22, 1968



