RESTRICTED
Report No.      T O - 6 1 0 a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nior may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAWI
January 3, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curveocy Unit     -   Malawi pound (J)
US$               =   E0.417
6                 =   US$2. 40
b 1 million       =   US$2. 4 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English System
llb               =   0.453kg
I sh ton              2, 000 lb
=   0. 9072 m ton
1 ac              =   0.405ha
I sqmi                 2.59sqkm



MALAWI
Lilongwe Development Proleet
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY
I.       INTRODUCTION .      . ........ .,.,...................              1
II.     BACKGROUND ......         .      . , ..........        .....         1
III.  THE LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM               . . .                   3
A.  The Development Area .......                                     3
B. The Pilot Project                . . .                           6
C.  The Lilongwe Development Program.                               6
IV.  THE PROJECT....                                                        13
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                  . . .16
VI.      PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FAPIl INCOMES                     20
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION            . ..       ..22
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS              . . .                   23
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture
2.   Marketing and Credit
3.   Cost Estimates and Phasing
4.   The Department of Agriculture
5.   Organization and Staffing
6.   Economic Rate of Return
MAPS
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
which visited Malawi in May, 1967, composed of Messrs. Malone, Haynes
and Prout.






MATJAWI
LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUNMARY
i.        The Government of Malawi has requested an IDA Credit to assist
in financing the first four year phase of the Lilongwe Development Program,
a thirteen year scheme designed to increase agricultural production on a
land unit of 500,000 acres in the Central Region of Malawi.
ii.       Despite the low per capita income in Malawi of about US$52 per
annum, an inevitable consequence of a heavy dependence upon subsistence
agriculture, an encouraging recent development has been the resurgence of
cash crop production by peasant farmers which now accounts for about nine
percent of GDP (as against six percent in 1957). The program aims at
exploiting this renewed interest in cash crops to stimulate greater pro-
duction of food crops.
iii.      There are approximately 38,000 families in the area to be devel-
oped and the average holding size is about six acres. The main crops grown
in the area are maize (the staple food), groundnuts, and tobacco. Although
no accurate data are available it is estimated that the total income of the
average farm family is about US$130 of which the net cash income is about
US$50.
iv.       The Development Program includes an integrated package of invest-
ments in soil conservation works, crop extraction roads, water supplies,
marketing, storage and credit facilities, and in particular in a greater
extension and credit effort. Further, the Program envisages some land re-
organization and the registration of holdings and makes provision for the
strengthening of the Survey Department to assist in this work.
v.        Overall responsibility for the implementation of the Program
will be assumed by an Agricultural Development Branch now established
within the Department of Agriculture. The Program Manager will be respon-
sible to the head of this Branch, and will work closely with the Regional
Agricultural Officer and other local officials.
vi.       The total cost of the 13 year Program is estimated at US.+,21.2
million. Staff costs will total about US$6,3 million; another major item
will be capital investments in soil conservation, roads and water supply
(US$2.4 million). Foreign exchange costs for the 13 year Program are
estimated at US$12.3 million, or 58 percent of total costs.
vii.      At full production the net cash income of the average farm family
in the area would be increased as a consequence of the Program by some
70 percent. The rate of return to the economy is estimated at about 13
percent. The estimated export value of the projected increase in marketable
surplus in maize and groundnuts is US$5.2 million per annum at full production.



- ii -
viii.     The first four year Phase - for which IDA assistance is
requested - is estimated to cost UStL.0 million. Staff and associated
housing will cost US$4.1 million, other capital costs US$1.7 million
and fertilizer purchases US$0.3 million. The foreign exchange component
of this four year Phase will be US5t3.6 million, or 51 percent of total
costs.
ix.       This initial Phase will include 79.5 percent of the cepital
investment for the 13 year Program and the development of about one-third
of its area, i.e., 163,000 acres.   The rate of return of this first Phase
is estimated at about 9 percent.
x.        The Lilongwe Developm-.ent Program is technically and economically
sound and the first four year phase is suitable for an IDA Credit of
us$6.o million which will cover 85.7 percent of its total estimated cost.



MALAWI
LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malawi has applied for an IDA Credit to assist
in financing the first phase of the Lilongwe Development Program, an inte-
grated agricultural improvement scheme covering 500,000 acres in the Central
Region of Malawi. The program would increase the production of food crops,
both for home consumption and for export, while maintaining the output of
tobacco, an important export cash crop.
1.02      The project submission was prepared for the Government by the
Agricultural Development Service (ADS) l/ under the supervision of the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program within the scope of the UNDP (SP) Project in
Southern Malawi.
1.03      This report is based on the studies of ADS and the findings of a
mission which visited Malawi in May, 1967, composed of Messrs. Malone,
Haynes and Prout.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Malawi is a small, landlocked country with a land area of 36,000
square miles. Its population of four million is growing at more than three
percent a year and has an average density of more than 110 per square mile,
one of the highest in Africa. Over 90 percent of the population live in
traditional villages and derive their livelihood from agriculture.
2.02      All farmers grow subsistence crops - cereals (usually maize, the
staple food), beans and other pulses. This heavy dependence on subsistence
crops accounts for the low per capita income of Malawi, US$52 a year.
Unimproved subsistence agriculture represented about 32 percent of the 1966
GDP of US$210 million equivalent and its output tends to grow at the same
rate as the population. Substantial surpluses of maize and othe food
crops were marketed in the past, but marketings became erratic during the
somewhat unsettled conditions of the past decade. Recent statistics,
however, show that marketable surpluses are returning to the level of the
early 1950's (see Annex 1).
1/   The Agricultural Development Service (ADS) is an organization set up to
provide management services to agricultural development projects in
Africa. It is operated under the auspices of the IBRD Permanent Mission
in East Africa, located in Nairobi.



- 2 -
2.03      Many farmers in the Central Plains grow groundnuts and dark-
fired tobacco as cash crops, in addition to maize. Like cotton, the main
cash crop of the lowlands, these are grown mainly for export. Although
subject to seasonal factors, output of these cash crops has not shown the
marked variations that have characterized the marketing of surplus food
crops. Cash crop production by smallholders has been increasing at some
seven percent per annum in recent years and now accounts for more than nine
percent of GDP (as against six percent in 1957). Although the private
estates are small in total area, their production is about six percent of
GDP, raising the overall contribution of cash crops to 15 percent, and of
agriculture as a whole to slightly less than 50 percent of the G]P of
Malawi.
2.o4      The long-term growth of agricultural production has been achieved
primarily by expansion of acreage. Encouraging though it may be, the
recent growth in cash crop production and in marketings of surpluis food
crops has been due in part to bringing back under cultivation land which
had been neglected during the previous decade. Further expansioan of acre-
age is restricted by the limited area of agriculturally suitable land,
particularly in the densely populated Central and Southern Regions. To
maintain present outnut it will be necessary in many areas to protect farm
land from erosion, a fact which was recognized in the past by the now-
abandoned legislation making soil conservation measures mandatory on every
farm. Further production increares will be dependent on increases in
yields. Recent research and pilot programs have shown practical means of
how such increases can be achieved.
2.05      A new Agricultural Development Branch has been established within
the Department of Agriculture to assume responsibility for major agricultural
development schemes in Malawi. The Government's agricultural development
policy is concentrated on improving the production of the main existing small-
holder crops. Two major development schemes 1/ are being launched to increase
the yields of cotton, the main export crop. The rapid growth of population
and the imminent threat of localized domestic food shortages, however, require
greatly intensified efforts to raise the yields of -food crops, especially maize
and groundnuts, which are most economically grown in the Central Plains near
Lilongwe, the commercial hub of the populous Central Region.
2.06      Past experience, based on successful pilot schemes, indicates
that intensification is best supported by an integrated package program,
on a scale which is large enough to be effective but still manageaple.
Such a program would consist of soil conservation measures;
the_rural infrastructure; cultivation of remaining unused land; an intensive j
extension and credit effort concentrated in a well-defined geographic area
1/   These schemes will increase the production of cotton from rainfed farms
in the lowlands at the Salima lakeshore (Central Region) and the shire
valley (Southern Region). The Salima Lakeshore Project is being financed
by West Germany and the Shire Valley Project has been appraised for a
possible IDA credit. Development possibilities in the Northern Region
are being investigated by ADS.



,in order to accelerate the use of modern inputs; and land reorganization
Fand registration of holdings, which would provide farmers with recognizable
junits of land and thus promote long-term farm improvements and sustain the
results achieved in the short run.
2.07      The requirements for staffing and management of and local staff
training for such a complex program, including the provision of housing,
vehicles, and equipment, are far beyond Malawi's present human and financial
resources. However, the benefits accruing from such a program would, in
time, create substantial local resources of money and skilled manaower
which could be mobilized for subsequent development in other areas.
2.08      This type of integrated development program, consisting mainly of
technical assistance combined with a package of simple investments in infra-
structure and productive working capital, is a departure from the usual
type of Bank/IDA agricultural project. However, such a program is an
effective means of initiating the development process in backward rural
economies like that of Malawi and many other countries which are not yet
at a stage where more technically advanced, capital intensive projects can
be usefully undertaken on a widespread basis.
III.  THE LILONGWE DEVELOPMRTU PROGRAM
A. The Development Ar^ea
3.01      The area selected for this Development Program is the Lilongwe
Plain (see Map 1) a discrete geophysical unit covering some 800 square
miles of the central plateau of Malawi (see Map 2). It has the highest
agricultural potential of any region of Malawi and is ideally suited as
the site of the first major development project devoted to food crops.
The population is receptive to change, having been accustomed to the
benefits of cash incomes for many years. The country's main agricultural
research and training facilities are within the area. The soils are
generally productive, although yields can be greatly increased by judicious
use of fertilizer. The rainfall, averaging 32 inches per year, .s adequate
for the usual annual crops although the rainy season is too shor2 to allow
double cropping or perennial crops. More important, however, the annual
rainfall is reliable, reducing the risks that accompany the use of fertilizer
by smallholders in less fortunate areas. Over most of the Lilongwe Plain
the relief is moderate, with gentle slopes (typically two to three percent
and rarely more than five percent) interrupted by wide, shallow valleys.
3.02      The area offers many advantages, and opportunities for develop-
ment. Few villages have a reliable water supply and good land lies unculti-
vated because there is no water nearby. The Plain offers few sites for
dams but there are abundant supplies of good underground water at a depth
of about 100 ft which can be tapped by boreholes with simple hand pumps.
Soil erosion is already a problem, especially on shallow soils and where the



-4-
remains of abandoned conservation works concentrate the flow of rain water
runoff. The problem is aggravated because farmers grow their crops on
ridges but do not align them properly with the contour. There are few
roads in the area and the network of paths and tracks is inadequate both
for the outflow of the potential increase in production and the movement
of extension and credit workers and supplies of production requisites.
General Description of the Area
3.03      The Program area, as defined by The Lilongwe Agricultu"-al Develop-
ment Area Order , 1967, consists of about a third of Lilongwe District and
lies to the west of Lilongwe town (pop. 19,000). The town is the administrativ,
headquarters and the main trading center of the Central Region. Land within
the boundaries of the "Greater Lilongwe Deve'lopment Plan" (i.e. within a
radius of about five miles of the township) will be excluded frorn the Program
area.
3.04      The 1966 Census showed that the rural population of the area was
about 190,000 (excluding 4,300 Government officials, traders, etc.). Over
most of the area the density is approximately 250 per square mile, more than
twice the national average. There are some 38,000 farms, with an average of
about six acres of crops, and the average size of the farm family is five.
Maize is the predominant crop covering 57 percent of the cropped land (133,000
acres). Tobacco, occupying 20 percent of the land (47,000 acres) has been
the main source of cash in the past. Groundnuts, however, are assuming
greater importance and now occupy some 17 percent of the cropped lands.
Beans, sweet potato, cassava and other minor crops are also grown but
inter-cropping is not common. Although the climate is less than ideal for
perennials, over 60 percent of the holdings grow some fruit - mainly mangoes
and bananas - for home consumption.
3.05      Production methods are typical of family-labor peasant farming.
Few farm inputs are purchased, although use of fertilizer is increasing,
about one farmer in ten buying small quantities (mainly for tobacco).
About one farmer in three hires labor but a substantial portion of the wage
is paid in kind.
3.06      All arable crops are grown on ridges; soil preparation, planting,
cultivation and weeding are done with hand hoes.  The number of work oxen
is increasing, but they are used mainly for carting and only an insignificant
number of larger farmers use ox-drawn plows or ridgers. Tractors are used
only on estates, missions, and departmental stations. Harvesting and threshing
are done entirely by hand, as is the shelling of groundnuts. Crops are stored
on the farm in mud-and-thatch cribs in which storage losses of grain are said
to be about 20 percent. Crop drying, however, presents no problems.
3.07     M4ore than half of the farmers in the Lilongwe District own small
livestock, and over 80 percent keep poultry, but only about one in four owns
cattle. Further details are provided in Annex 1.



-5-
Land tenure
3.08      Land is cultivated under customary rights of usufruct.  Each
village controls an area of land whose boundaries, though unsurveyed and
unmarked, are well known. In accordance with the matrilineal form of tribal
succession traditional in this area, most of the cultivation rights are
still held by women, and, when a man marries, he usually moves to his wife's
village and farms her land. However, since customary marriages are neither
monogamous nor necessarily lasting, he may neglect his farm and even his
own family in favor of supporting his sister's children in his home
village, where he will take most of the cash he earns. He is unlikely to
want to make any improvements on the wife's farm since he will leave her
village if the marriage ends.
3.09      In recent years there has been considerable erosion of this
traditional system, however, and farmers are now taking a much greater
interest in educating and providing for their own families. As a result
of this and of the aggravated pressure on land, there is an increasing
tendency for young men to stay in their own villages and farm the family
land, which they hope to be able to leave to their own children. In order
to encourage this trend, the Government has recently enacted three laws
establishing a legal procedure which leads to the reorganization and regis-
tration of land held under customary law and the granting of titles of
ownership. These laws are of a permissive nature in that they allow regis-
tration to occur at a natural rate rather than artificially forcing it on
the people prematurely.
Marketing
3.10      The Farmer's Marketing Board (FMB), described in detail in Annex
2, has a statutory responsibility to purchase all marketable produce grown
on African smallholdings, although at present it delegates purchase of
maize to licensed agents. Established in 1963, the FMB is largely autono-
mous although subJect to general direction by the Minister for Economic
Affairs.  The FMB maintains nine permanent markets in the Program area.
Their main function is to provide facilities for the purchase, temporary
storage and relhandling of tobacco, and they are equipped adequately with
enclosures, storage space, automatic recording scales, and cash registers.
There are also 17 temporary F!-B markets serving the area. A grower may
only sell his tobacco at the permanent market at which he is rej.stered
but groundnuts may be sold at any of the temporary markets (whicth have
little or no storage space and only spring scales and buckets for weighing
produce). In many cases farmers prefer to bypass temporary markets and may
walk as many as eight additional miles to sell their groundnuts at a. permanent
market, where they are assured of receiving full payment. Maize is purchased
in the villages by licensed traders who resell to the FMB at its central depots.



-6-
Communications
3.11      Lilongwe town is connected by a tarred road to the rail-head at
Salima, 65 miles away over the escarpment on the Lake Shore plain. All-
weather gravel roads connect with DOaW and Kasungu to the north, and with
Zomba and Blantyre to the south. The gravel road to Fort Jameson in Zambia
bisects the area. Lilongwe town has regular postal and telecommunication
connections with Zomba, Blantyre, and other maJor towns. Daily flights,
connecting with international services at Blantyre, are schedule( from the
all-weather airport.
B. The Pilot Pro,ject
3.12      The aims and methods of the Development Program have been tested,
since 1965, in a UK-financed pilot project operated by the regional staff of
the Department of Agriculture a few miles south of Lilongwe (see Map 2).
In the first year, storm drains were provided over 2,000 acres, nine miles
of crop extraction roads built, 150 acres of holdings reorganized to
straighten boundaries, consolidate fragments or compensate for land used
for roads and drains. Extension activity was greatly increased, and im-
proved seed was distributed. Roads and drains were installed in a further
6,500 acres during 1966. Minor adjustments were made to boundaries over
an area of about 1,500 acres. Extension worlk continued, and increased use
was made of ad hoc village committees. During 1967 development was completed
on a 12,000 acre block adjoining the project boundary and land use plans
were drawn up for the area covered by the first year of the project.
;3.13      Extension workers devoted much of their time to publicizing the
purposes and benefits of the physical works and active campaigns were
conducted to encourage the use of the improved synthetic maize tAskari"
and of fertilizers. No total production figures are available, but the
results of 26 demonstration plots on farmers' land during 1966/67 show
encouraging responses to fertilizer:
Ashari          Askari
Local Varieties   Unfertilized    Fertilized
Yield of grain, lb/ac                1,100             1,310          3,110
Fertilizer is sold for cash or on credit: 92 percent of the credit extended
for the 1966/67 crop had been repaid by  November 1967.
3.14      The mission visited the pilot pro'ect, attended farmers' field
days and observed the harvesting of trial plots. WIhile it is still too
early to judge the results in terms of increased production or structural
change, the recommended techniques are practical and extension methods
effective. The pilot project adequately demonstrates the feasibility of
the proposed Development Program.



- 7 -
C. The Lilongwe Development Program
3.15      The aim of the Lilongwe Development Program is to raise agri-
cultural production, by increasing yields and ensuring the effective use
of all suitable land, and by furthering the transition from a subsi tence
to a market economy.  The Program would include closely integrated devel-
opment of the rural infrastructure, provision of increased extension and
credit services and the reorganization of holdings and registration of
titles to land. The basic method will be the concentration of resources
in limited areas until the desired results are achieved: thereafter,
Program staff would be progressively withdrawn until, after five years of
development, each area would be returned to the Jurisdiction of the
normal regional services of the Department of Agriculture.
3.16      The targets of the 13 year Development Program include:
(a) Detailed land use plans for each drainage area in the
500,000 acre area and provision of appropriate roads,
soil conservation works, water supplies and markets.
(b) Development of 60,000 acres (net) of agriculturally
suitable land now lying idle and the better utili-
zation of 40,000 acres of land now lying fallow. This
would maintain the present ratio of cropped land
to farm families for 15 years in spite of the high
rate of population growth.
(c) Provision for the voluntary registration of title
to land.
(d) !A tenfold increase in the marketable surplus of
maize, in spite of rising consumption, and doubling
of production of groundnuts. The production of
tobacco would remain unchanged.
Soil Conservation and Road Construction
3.17      Although most crops are grown on ridges, these ridges _re not
properly laid out along the contours and do not lead into drainage ditches.
As a result, considerable erosion occurs. In the future, nearly all arable
land will be under cultivation, and the need for proper conservation will
be greater than ever. Contour maps (provided by the Survey Department to
a scale of 1:5,000) will be the basis for the detailed physical planning of
each drainage area. Storm drains will be placed about 220 yards apart,
their exact location depending on the slope. About 4,200 miles of storm
drains will be required. Runoff will be discharged into natural or im-
proved drainage ways. Marker ridges will be put in mechanically at short
intervals to guide the farmers in ridging their fields by hand along the
contour. The cost of these various measures will be about E1.27 per acre
(Ul.93 per cropped acre). (Further details of soil conservation are given
in Annex 1.)



-8-
3.18      The existing roads do not provide adequate access to markets nor
for the delivery of farm requisites to villages remote from main roads.
The lack of adequate crop extraction roads is one of the main factors
limiting the marketing of the more bulky crops, maize and groundnuts, and
will be a major handicap to the provision of an intensive extenLion ser-
vice. The land use plans will make provision for roads sited, in the main,
on ridges. Those serving markets will be built as crop extraction roads
with culverts and bridges where necessary. Other roads will be little
more than tracks, maintained by villagers. The Program incluOes 500
miles of roads, at an overall average cost of £1,138 per mile (I1.72
per acre of crops).
3.19      The soil conservation works and roads will be built on force
account by the Land Development Section of the Program.
Water Supplies
3.20      The present practice of drawing domestic water from the rivers
and drainage channels is a hazard to health and is wasteful of manpower.
Moreover, certain areas of potentially good arable land now lie unculti-
vated due to the lack of permanent water supplies. The Program will
provide 300 new boreholes which, together with the existing 70, will
provide sufficient water for domestic purposes (up to 10 gallons per head
per day) and, on the average, will bring water within a mile of each
village. This work will be carried out by the Water Development Department
of the Ministry of Works, who would also undertake maintenance of all bore-
holes and hand pumps.  The Department has insufficient equipment for this
task and the Program includes provision for two new drill rigs, maintenance
tools and staff.
Markets and Storage Facilities
3.21      With the developpment of new crop-extraction roads, it will
become necessary to relocate the 17 existing temporary markets. To avoid
the need for farmers to travel more than three miles to deliver produce,
a further eight markets will be established. These markets will be more
permanent to create a series of focal points for extension and credit work
and the distribution of fertilizers and other farming requisites.  They
will be provided with limited storage facilites, self-recording scales
and cash registers. In addition, in order to cope with the projected
increase in production in the area, the RE will need additional crop
storage capacity at Lilongwe.
Extension
3.22      Maize yields can be raised from their present level of about 1,100
lb/ac to 2,700 lb/ac by the use of improved seed and fertilizers and by
careful cultivation and weeding. Similarly, groundnut yields can be raised
from 500 to 650 lb shelled nuts per acre and tobacco yields doubled to 400 lb
of cured leaf per acre. Details of these projections will be found in Annex 1.
There is also considerable scope for reducing storage losses, which presently
amount to some 20 percent per annum.



- 9 -
3.23      The teaching and successful introduction of these techniques
would require a major extension effort under the program and account for
the high staff intensity. However, the extension workers will have many
other tasks. One important lesson learned from the pilot project is the
need to explain in advance exactly what will happen during the land de-
yelopment-phase and the reasons for the disruption of some holdings in
the process of land reorganization and infrastructure establishment.
Later, farmers will need to be acquainted with the advantages of land
registration.
3.24      The Program, therefore, provides for an intensive extension
effort which, over the 13 years, will cost on average JO.37 per farm per
year. During the first two and a half years in each unit there will be
one extension worker to every 200 farm families: for the next two and a
half years, the ratio will be reduced to one to 400 families. The yield
increases obtained during this period will thereafter be sustained and
consolidated by the normal regional extension service, whose staff will
be augmented out of training activities included under the Program to
provide a ratio of one worker to every 6-800 farm families.
Credit
3.25      The new farming methods will involve the use of unfamiliar,
imported inputs, in particular fertilizer. These will be purchased
initially as a part of the Program and distributed to farmers on credit.
The sale price of the inputs will include interest at 10 percent. Credit
will be given in kind to selected farmers and recipients would be super-
vised 'oy the Program's credit staff. Since there is no commercial network
in the area, the FMB will purchase all farm requisites and distribute them
through its markets. To facilitate collection of credit repayments, each
farmer will be registered at the market through which he obtains supplies,
and will not be permitted to sell produce at other markets. Further details
of the credit system will be found in Annex 2, Part B.
3.26      The Program's credit staff will be capable of supervising
27,500 loans, the maximum expected at any one time.  The FMB will be
reimbursed, at cost, for the services of any additional staff required
for handling collections. The FMB, with itB well established marketing
network and large competent staff, is capable of carrying out its part of
the scheme.  However, due to the importance of the role it will 4krze, the
FMB will undertake in a written agreement with the Government satisfactory
to the Association to carry out all aspects of the program which pertain to
it including the construction and operation of the new marketing and storage
facilities and the administration of the credit scheme.
Fertilizer
3.27      In 1964, the Government introduced a subsidy scheme to encourage
the use of fertilizer by smallholders, especially on tobacco and maize.
Sales by the F B under this scheme have been:



- 10 -
Year                 1964      1965       1966
Short tons          2,200     6,200      9,400
The subsidy has covered about half of the cost of all fertilizer pur-
chased by African farmers.  Government intends to set a ceiling of
E300,000 on the annual cost of the fertilizer subsidy and expects that
this level will be reached by 1969. Thereafter, the sale price of
fertilizer will be increased to keep the total cost of subsidy et about
E300,000 per year until 1973 and to abolish it altogether by 1976.
These changes in subsidy have been taken into account where necessary
in this report. Both the fertilizer subsidy and the credit scheme
described above are designed to assist the extension service in educat-
ing the farmer to appreciate the considerable potential benefits from
the use of fertilizer, especially on maize. Once this is achieved, sub-
sidy and credit in kind will no longer be necessary and sufficient
demand will have built up to make the continued distribution of fertil-
zer fully self-financing.
Land Reorganization and Registration
3.28      Provision is made in the Development Program for the Survey,
demarcation, reorganization and registration of land. The actions which
will be taken are as follows:
(a)  Land Survey.   The demarcation of existing holdings and
the physical planning of the storm drain layout and road
networks require the drw.ing of accurate contour maps at
a scale of 1:5,000. The existing map making facilities
of the Survey Department are not adenuate for this task
and the necessary aerial survey, equipment and staff are
included in the Program.
(b) Demarcation and Reorganization. After the planning of
the storm drain layout and road network hes been com-
pleted, the existing holdings will be reorganized to
straighten plot boundaries, compensate for land used
for the construction of roads or drains and consolidate
fragments. At a later date, a cadastral survey will be
made to demarcate and record the new holdings. After
the hearing of objections, the Registrar of Lands will
receive the final cadastral survey on the basis of which
he will issue titles.
(c) Land Registration. The Registered Land Act provides for
the subsequent conduct of the land affairs of the new
owners including a comprehensive legal code for the
registration and guarantee of title to the land, thereby
making it possible to lease or transfer ownership.



- 11 -
By providing for registration in the name of a family
group, as well as an individual, the law allows for a
gradual transition to individual ownership of land if
experience should show that the latter is not immedi-
ately feasible. For this purpose, a new Land Registry
Office in Lilongwe will be built, equipped, and
staffed under the Program.
Apart from the first stage, this sequence of events will proceed at
its own pace, independently of the rest of the Program, and will not
interfere with the plannin& and execution of the civil works or the
provision of extension and creidt.
Phasing Development
3.29      The overall size of the development program is determined by the
area of high potential land available. Its rate of development is dictated
mainly by economiies of scale in the use of heavy equipment under expatriate
management in the construction of soil conservation works, roads and water
supply. Develorment works will be initiated on nine land units in consec-
utive annual phases. This will approximate to the potential of the staff
and equipment provided under the Program. This potential capacity of the
Program staff will be limited in the first three years but will reach its
final level - 75,000 acres per year - by the fourth year, as shown in the
figures below.
Year                 1      2      3      4    5    6    L    8   _9
T'0oo acresT
Work initiated on   13      25      50    75   75   75   75   75   37
Cumulative total    13      38     88   163  238  313  388  463  500
3.30      In practice, there will be an overlap of activities between
the annual units already under development:  different stages of the
various operations will be in progress in different units (see diagram
in Annex 3). The coordination of these activities, and the provision of
common services, will be carried out by the Program's administrative staff.
The administrative units will be "Areas" of 20,000 acres, each with an
Area Manager"  there will be a maximum of 15 areas under manageYT3nt at any
one time. District Managers will supervise the administration of five
Areas each: only three District Managers will be required.



- 12 -
3.13      The Program will involve total expenditure of about E8.8 million
(US$21.2 million) over a 13 year period, broken down as follows:
(items include contingencies)
EOOO?s
1.   Capital        Buildings                       1,018
Vehicles                         167
Plant & Machinery                223
Survey Equipment                   77
Other                             347
1,832
2.   Recurrent 1/   Staff Cost                      2,819
Other Costs                    1,286
4,103
3.   Farm Inputs    Fertilizer                      2,740
Implements, etc.                 163
2,903
TOTAL COST                                           8,84o
(of which foreign exchange)                        (5,127)
Percentage foreign exchange                             58%
1/   "Recurrent" costs include, among other items, the salaries of the staff
and the cost of operating and maintaining the equipment used to construct
the roads, soil conservation works and village water supplies. The
staff housing, marketing and storage facilities and other buildings and
works will be built on contract and their entire cost is included under
1.Capital".
Financial Implications to Government
3.32      At present very little tax revenue is obtained from the smallholder
sector, although large development expenditures and an increasing burden of
longer-run recurrent expenditures are now being undertaken for its benefit.
In accordance with the recommendation of a recent IMF fiscal mission, Govern-
ment is considering the introduction of a cess on crops marketed by the FMB.
If adopted, the level of the cess should be high enough to make a substantial
contribution to financing the costs of agricultural development in Malawi.
For example, a five percent cess would eventually provide an annual revenue
of about B180,000 from the Program area; this revenue would exceed Government's
contribution to the costs of the Program from Year 6 onwards. Of course, in
order to assure such financial benefits, pricing policies of the FMB would
have to be such that losses were not being incurred at the same time.



- 13 -
IV. rTHE PROJECT
4.0o      For purposes of financing,  the Lilongwe Development Program has
been divided into three phases of four, five and four years respectively.
Phase 1 (Yrs. 1-4) will include investment in almost all the necessary
equipment and 90 percent of the buildings needed for the whole Program,
as well as the cost of developing, and providing services for, 163,000
acres. During Phase 2 (Yrs. 5-9) physical development of the whole area
will be completed but extension work, the provision of farm inputs and
land registration will continue until the end of Phase 3 (Yrs. 9-13).
The costs of the various phases are shown in the table below:
Phase 1     Phase 2      Phase 3
(Yrs 1-4)   (Yrs 5-9)  (Yrs 10-13)   Total
Woo0        WOO0        WOO0        WOO0
1. Agricultural Develop-
ment Branch 1/               81          88         71           240
2. Program Management,
in-service training,
program evaluation,
administration.             713         289        233         1,235
3. Land Development,
drains, roads,
water supplies              812         574           -        1,386
4.  Markets, storage depot        80          15           -           95
5.  Land Registration, re-
organization, surveys       326         258        166           750
6.  Extension Service            318         477         166          961
7.  Credit Service               157         164          57          378
8.  Farm Inputs                  148       1,120      1,632         2,900
9.  Contingencies                283         329         283          895
TOTAL                      2,918       3,314      2,608         8,84o
Foreign exchange percent      51%         55%        71%           58%
Total, US$t million          7.00       7.95       6.26         21.21
U/  About 80 percent of the cost of this new Branch has been allocated to
the Program as representing an appropriate share of the total. Aside
from the Lilongwe Development Program, the new Branch will be responsible
for the two cotton schemes in the Shire Valley and the Salima Lakeshore.



- 14 -
4.02      The project for which an IDA Credit has been requested consists
of Phase 1 of the Lilongwe Development Program. The total cost of Phase 1
is estimated at slightly more than V2.9 million (US$7.0 million).
4.03      The type of works to be carried out in the Progrnm has been
outlined in the previous chapter. The project will provide for the
completion of physical development work in the first 163,000 acres of
the area and will establish the necessary extension, credit ancd land
reorganization services and the administration of two Districts. About
one-third of the total cost will be for staff salaries. Becauwe of the
shortage of trained Malawian staff it will be necessary to employ a
high proportion of expatriates initially but provision is made for super-
numerary posts for the in-service training of local staff. A total of
44 expatriates will be needed. About half of the cost of the project
will be for staff housing and offices, vehicles, machinery and equipment
(for details see Annex 3). Some of these items, totalling about E86,OOO
will not be required during the four year period but will be built or
purchased for use during subsequent phases of the Program.  Few, if any,
will have been fully utilized, and their residual value at the end of
the first phase is conservatively estimated at over E506,000.
4.04      A summary of the estimated project costs is given in the table
below: (a detailed breakdown of costs is given in Table 3).
Project Cost
E '000
Local      Foreign
Capital                                 Currency    Exchange       Total
Houses & Other Buildings                 502          414          916
Vehicles, Machinery & Equipment           32          371          403
Other                                     67           84          152
01          89          1,471
Recurrent
Personnel Costs                          685          284          969
Operations & Maintenance                  95          163          258
Other                                     35           33           68
E15         480         1,295
Farm Inputs
Fertilizer                                 0          125          125
Implements                                10           18           27
10         __3           152
Total:                                   1,426        1 402        2,918



- 15 -
Foreign exchange costs are Z1.5 million including contingencies, or 51 percent
of the total cost: this estimate includes provision of leave pay, passages
and repatriated savings of non-Malawians employed on the project.  Foreign
exchange costs were estimated for individual items on the basis of normal
sources of supply. No import duties would be charged on items imported
specifically for the project. Other cost estimates are based on current
prices and government scales of pay and allowances (net of taxes and house
rents). The costs of houses, offices, vehicles and equipment were based
upon information provided by Ministries and by FMB. Contingencies were
added at varying rates depending on the item and the year and an additional
contingency allowance of 7 percent has been added to local costs to provide
for uncertainties in domestic price trends following devaluation of the
Malawi Pound on November 20, 1967. The overall contingency allowance is
11 percent.
h.05      While the project will include all the cost of capital devel-
opment of the first 163,000 acres, it will not include the continuing
cost of extension and credit services on this area during years 5-8,
amounting to E378,000 (US$0.9 million). Details of these costs are given
in Annex 3, Table 3. Government will provide these funds should it fail
to obtain further external assistance to carry out Phase 2 as a whole.
4.06      The Government will exercise its best efforts to obtain the funds
necessary for Phases 2 and 3 of the Program. IDA, for its part, should review
the progress achieved by the third year of the first phase and, subject to re-
appraisal and availability of funds, should be prepared to consider financing
the remainder of the Program together with the ongoing costs of Phase 1.
4.07      A small program evaluation unit, under the direction of an Agri-
cultural Economist, will be established to study the effects of the Program
on the individual farmer.  This unit would provide data both for the IDA
review and for the continuing process of adJusting the Program in the light
of experience.
Financing
4.08      The cost of the project will be financed from the following sources:
(US $ millions)
Local
IDA        Contribution       Total
Foreign Costs            3.6             _                3.6
Local Costs              2.4            1.0               3.4
Total                    6.o            1.0              7.0



-16 -
4.09      The latest Bank economic report on Malawi 1/ has recommended that
credit to Malawi should cover about 85 percent of project costs. The pro-
posed credit will be us$6.o million (L2.5 million), or about 85.7 percent of
the estimated total cost. The Government will contribute USS$1.C million
equivalent of which about US$128,000 equivalent will be recovered in the
form of repayments by farmers during the first four years on credits received
for farm inputs. The low contribution by Government and farmers is due to
severe budgetary difficulties and to the present low level of farm incomes
respectively.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.10      All procurements of goods and housing contracts will be subject to
international competitive bidding except for individual tenders totalling
less than US$25,000 for goods or US$50,000 for houses. Tenders for lesser
amounts will be subject to regular Government tendering procedures, which
ensure a satisfactory degree of competition.
4.11      Withdrawals from the Credit Account will cover, against documents,
100 percent of the cif costs of identifiable imported goods and services
required for the project and, against certified statements of expenditure,
75 percent of other project costs. Withdrawals will not exceed us$6.o
million equivalent; undisbursed amounts will be available for cancellation.
In the event that expenditures exceed the present estimated project costs
of $7.0 million, the excess will be met by the Government.
4.12      Government will lend some US$,210,000 of the proposed credit
to the FMB to finance foreign exchange and local costs of market improve-
ments and storage facilities at Lilongwe.  The loan to the FMB will be
for 25 years including four years' grace at 6 percent interest, and will
be covered by a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association.
4.13      Government will establish and maintain appropriate accounts
for the entire project, which will be audited annually by the Auditor
General. Responsibility for the credit accounts for individual farmers
will be delegated to the FMB.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MATAGEMENT
5.01      The Department of Agriculture, described in Annex 4, is a part
of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is responsible for agricultural
development, extension and research. The extension services are organized
on a regional basis, each of the three regions enjoying a marked degree
of autonomy but subject to the Director of Agriculture in matters of policy.
1/ Report AF-68a "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Malawi"
dated November 20, 1967.



- 17 -
The national Extension Aids Branch provides basic material for extension
programs but regional specialists provide local knowledge and prepare
detailed work plans for field staff. The ratio of staff to farmers varies:
in the Lilongwe District there is presently one worker to 1,800 farm families
but the Department's long-term aim is to reduce the ratio to one to 6-800.
Further details are given in Annex 4, Table 1.
5.02      Within the Department of Agriculture the new Agricultural Develop-
ment Branch is responsible for the implementation of the Lilongwe Development
Program as a whole, including the project, and also of the cotton improve-
ment schemes in the Lower Shire Valley and around Salima. A share of the
initial costs of this branch is included under the Program.
5.03      The Agricultural Development Branch is headed by a Chief Agri-
cultural Development Officer, 1/ who reports to the Director of Agriculture.
Coordination with other Departments and Ministries proceeds in consultation
with the Secretary for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for all matters
of fundamental policy.
Program Organization
5.04      A Program organization (see Annex 5) will be set up under the
Agricultural Development Branch. It will be headed by a Program Manager
who will be responsible to the Chief Agricultural Development Officer and
will also work in close liaison with the Regional Agricultural Officer,
the Regional Manager of the FMB and other regional department heads in the
Central Region. Tne Program Manager will have full responsibility for
the execution of the Program and for the accounting of all finances and
stores except those consigned to other government departments and the FMB.
A suitably qualified Malawian Deputy Manager will be appointed.
5.05      Four Assistant Managers will be appointed within the organiza-
tion, all directly responsible to the Program Manager. The economist in
charge of the Evaluation Unit, the Training Officer, and the Accountant
will also report directly to the Program Manager. During the first
phase, all of these posts will be held by expatriates.
5.06      Sections will be established under each of the four Assistant
Managers, as follows:
(a)  Land Development:  The Assistant Manager (Land Development)
will be responsible for the planning and execution of soil
conservation works and roads. 'wo professional officers
will work under him: a Land Use and Planning Officer who
will draw up detailed plans for the development of each
drainage area in consultation with the Lands and Titles
1/   Supplied on contract by ADS, see footnote, page 1.



- 18 -
section; and a Conservation Officer who, with appropriate
staff and the necessary machinery and equipment, will
carry out the civil works. The Conservation Officer will
also be responsible for the workshops and motor pool.
(b) Extension and Credit: The Assistant Manager (Extension
and Credit) will have overall responsibility for agri-
cultural extension, credit, and the preparation of exten-
sion aids. He will be directly responsible for the
extension program and will control the substantive as-
pects of extension. His Credit Officer will have direct
control of all credit work in the field. Each 100,000
acre District will be served by an Agricultural Technical
Officer and a Credit Technical Officer. For the first two
and a half years, each 20,000 acre Area will be served by
an extension staff of two higher technical assistants, and
eight technical assistants (about one field worker per
200 farm families): thereafter, the extension staff will
be reduced to half this level. The credit staff, while
separate, will work closely with the extension service in
the field and obtain their advice in selecting farmers to
receive credit and in assisting them to make the best use
of it. There will be two credit assistants in each
20,000 acre Area.
(c) Lands and Titles: The Assistant Manager (Land Reorganiza-
tion) will be appointed Allocation Officer for the area
by the Minister of Natural Resources, as provided in the
Customary Land (Development) Act, 1967. His staff will
consist of a Malawian understudy and three Demarcation
Officers, each of whom will be responsible for the demar-
cation of a 100,000 acre District, with the assistance of
a small staff of surveyors, clerks and laborers.
(d) Administration: The Assistant Manager (Administration)
will be responsible for both headquarters and field
administration. Services at headquarters will be under
the direction of an Administrative Officer and four Ex-
ecutive Officers. In the field, each 100,000 acre District
would be administered by a District Manager, who will be
responsible for the day-to-day management and coordination
of all activities in his District and for assuring that
progress in each District proceeds in accordance with the
project schedule. Similarly, each 20,000 acre area will
be under the management of an Area Manager reporting to the
District Manager. Initially, all District and Area Managers
will be expatriates, who, although not necessarily profes-
sionally or technically qualified agriculturists, have



- 19 -
experience in tropical agriculture. Provision will be
made in the Program for training posts, in which Malawians
will gain experience of management. Eight Malawians will
be appointed as Area Managers by the end of the project.
A further seven, and the first Malawian District Manager
will be trained during the first phase of the Program and
will be appointed in the first year of Phase 2 of the
Program.
Recruitment of Staff for the Program Organization
5.07      Details of the skilled manpower requirements of the project and
of the whole Program, together with a brief description of training facili-
ties in Malawi are given in Annex 5.
5.08      Almost half of the 89 professional and technical posts created
under the project are expected to be filled by non-Malawians, including
expatriates transferred from Government departments. The Government is
very willing to appoint expatriates for development projects and there
should be little difficulty in recruiting suitable staff since Government
has given assurances that savings can be repatriated. Appointments to the
posts of Assistant Manager and above will be subject to prior approval by
the Association.
5.09      Young qualified Malawians will lack practical experience and,
apart from supernumerary training posts, provision is made in Phase 1
for each such recruit to spend at least one year as an understudy to a
more experienced officer.
5.10      Experienced staff will be transferred from the Department of
Agriculture's regional services to fill about half of the posts in the
intermediate grades. They will be replaced by trainees from departmental
institutes. The remainder of posts in the Program will be filled by
direct recruitment and in-service training as staff requirements develop
in the course of Program implementation.
Other Government Departments
5.11      The project includes provisions for the purchase of equipment
for the Water Development Department of the Ministry of Works an for the
employment of two expatriate drillers and supporting staff. Drilling
teams will remain under the control and supervision of the Department, but
will work only within the Program area, while the schedule of work and the
siting of boreholes will be approved by the Program Manager.
5.12      A new survey office will be established under the project at
Lilongwe with two teams of surveyors, for ground control, and the staff
necessary for photo-interpretation and map production. The Senior Surveyor
will be directly responsible to the Commissioner for Surveys but the program
of work will be agreed with the Program Manager.



- 20 -
5.13      The project includes provision for a new ReRistry Office at
Lilongwe. The Assistant Registrar will cooperate with and advise the
Land Reorganization section of the project but will be responsible to
the Registrar of Titles.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM IlCOMES
6.01      The Lilongwe Development Program will lead to an increase in
the production of maize and groundnuts resulting from an increase in both
yield per acre and acreage. Experiments, field trials in the area, and
the results of the pilot project have shown that substantial yield in-
creases can be achieved by the use of fertilizer and simple improvements
in methods of cultivation. Details of the changes in land use are given
in Annex 1 table 2. Maize and groundnuts will be grown on 74,000 acres of
cultivable land which is presently uncultivated or lying fallow. Although
the yield of tobacco will also increase, 24,00O acres presently under
tobacco will be planted with other crops in order to restrict tobacco out-
put to the present marketable level. As technical and market developments
permit, the Government will explore the possibility of a future substitution
of higher value crops, perhaps including groundnuts, for some of the pro-
jected increase in maize acreage. The changes in acreage, yields and pro-
duction which, on the basis of the most conservative technical and economic
assumptions, can be expected to occur as a result of the Development Program
are summarized below:
Present Situation
Acreage    Yield      Production    Marketable
(000's)   (lb/ac)      (sh tons)    Surplus 1/
(sh tonsT
Maize                      133       1,100        73,150       10,000
Groundnuts                  38         500         9,500        7,000
Tobacco                     47         200         4,700        4,700
After Development
Acreage     Yield 2/  Production    Marketable
(000's)    (lb/ac)      (sh tons)    Surplus 1/
(sh tons)
Maize                      203       2,000       203,000       98,000
Groundnuts                  66         650        21,000       17,000
Tobacco                     23.5       400         4,700         4,700
1/  After allowing for on-farm consumption, seed retained and storage
losses. In the case of maize the rate of storage loss can be
expected to decrease slightly as a result of the program.
2/ See Annex 1.



- 21 -
Market Prospects
6.02      Market prospects for the major crops are considered in detail
in Annex 2. The FMB, through its close contacts with the export market
and by its control of production through its registration of growers,
intends to match the supply of dark-fired tobacco to the potential market,
to ensure that the present price (19-20d/lb) will be maintained. In the past,
Malawian groundnuts have commanded a premium for the confectionery trade
but in future an increasing proportion is likely to be sold for crashing.
The average price for groundnuts (ex Limbe) is expected to decl-ne from
E74 per sh ton in 1967 to about E62 in 1975, and thereafter remain fairly
steady. Aside from the rapidly growing domestic demand for maize, the
British distilling trade could absorb up to 240,000 sh tons and it appears
unlikely that the price will fall much belaw its recent level of Z17 per sh
ton ex Limbe through 1980.
Increase in Farmers' Income
6.03      Although no precise data are available, the typical family of
five consumes produce valued at about S34 a year. Cash sales of surplus
maize, groundnuts, tobacco and other crops and livestock bring in about
126 a year. Production costs, in cash and kind, amount to about E5
leaving a net family income of E55 a year. This figure compares favor-
ably with the present national average farm family income of E45-50
reflecting the higher relative productivity and fertile soils of the
area.
6.04      The projected increases in net cash income at full production
for 500,000 acres are as follow:
Gross value of increase in marketable surplus (net of 5 percent cess):
Maize (88,000 tons)            E  899,000
Groundnuts (10,000 tons)          503,000
Total gross benefits:           l,W402,000
Additional Inputs Required:
Labor                          E   92,000
Ox Plowing                          2,000
Tools and Equipment                69,ooo
Fertilizer                        447,000
E  610,000
Total increase in net cash incomes f  792,000
On the average, this will mean an increase in family net cash income of
about E14.7 or 70 percent of the present t21 level.



- 22 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project has been evaluated as the first phase of the whole
13-year Development Program as well as on the basis of its own merits.
In either case the gross benefits are measured as the value of the
increase in gross production after allowing for corresDonding increases
in storage losses, seed retention and on-farm consumption. Ifn this
instance the figure for on-farm consumption has been increased at the
projected rate of population growth. This allows for increases in
production expected to take place in the absence of the program. In-
creases in production have been valued at the maximum prices the F!B
could pay without incurring a loss, assuming world prices follow the
trends projected in paragraph 6.02.
7.02      In evaluating the Program the costs and benefits relating to
the entire 500,000 acres have been considered, since much of the initial
investment will serve both tae first and the subsequent phases of the
Program. Based upon an average life of 25 years for the investment re-
quired, the rate of return to the economy from the development program
as a whole is estimated at about 13 percent (See Annex 6, Table 1). If the
future development of markets and results of research permit more con-
centration on higher value crops, the rate of return and farners' incomes
will be correspondingly higher.
7.03      The increase in maize and groundnut production will permit
Malawi to remain self-sufficient in food in face of the demands of a
rapidly growing population, and also improve exrnort performance. At
full development total gross foreign exchange earnings and savings
will be about E2.2 million per annum; this compares with total foreign
exchange costs of about E5.1 million for the Progran over the entire
13-year period.
7.04      If lack of funds should prevent the continuance of the Program
beyond the first phase, it will not be necessary to incur the full
capital costs in Year 4, since these include houses and other items totalling
about E86,OOO which will not be utilized until Phase 2. On the other hand,
as has been stated in para 4.05, additional recurrent expenditures totalling
E378,000 will be needed to bring the 163,000 acres of Phase 1 into full
production. On the basis of these costs, net of realistic residual values
ascribed to reusable assets, and of benefits from the reduced area, the
rate of return to the economy of Phase 1 is estimated at about 9 percent (see
Annex 6, Table 2).
7.05      The calculated benefits, however, take no account of a large
number of non-quantifiable and indirect benefits: chief among these is
the value added to economic activities in other sectors; for example,
transportation benefits accruing to the road construction of the Lilongwe
to Zomba highway, for which an IDA credit is being sought, will be
greatly enhanced by the Lilongwe Development Program. Considerable bene-
fits will be realized from the support given the land reorganization and



- 23 -
registration schemes, designed to encourage the farmer to regard his land
as a productive asset to be maintained and improved rather than merely a
plot of soil to be exploited for the minimum means of existence. Equally,
government services will benefit, both from increases in capital assets
(for example investment in the Survey Department) and, perhaps most
significantly, from the nucleus of Malawian agriculturalists and admin-
istrators who will be trained as a consequence of the intense effort to
develop local management potential. While multiplier effects will follow
from the growth of farm incomes, it is in the transformation of attitudes
of the farmers themselves that the most lasting benefits of the Program
reside and through which their will be sustained and indeed spread. The
Lilongwe Development Program has a considerable educative role to play;
its contribution should prove major and vital in the overall agricul-
tural development of the country.
7.o6      The Lilongwe Development Program extending over 13 years is
economically justified and will make a sizeable contribution to foreign
exchange earnings and savings. Because of the nature of such a long term
program, its first phase cannot be expected to result in benefits as high
as the average for the Program because of initially higher overheads.
Nevertheless, even in isolation Phase 1 would produce an acceptable rate
of return on the basis of the quantifiable benefits. However, the most
important benefits expected to result from the Program will be improvement
in the attitudes of farmers and the provision of training for local personnel.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The Lilongwe Development Program is technically sound and well
justified from an economic viewpoint. The project, which consists of Phase
1 of the Program, is suitable for an IDA Credit of us$6.0 million.
8.02      Among others, assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  The FMB will undertake in a subsidiary loan agreement
with the Government tp cwaM  out aL.  asprBctEs '... 'he
PrograrA wh.ch pertain.to it. (paras 3.26 aid 4J12).
(b)  Government will, if necessary, provide the funds   quired
to complete the extension and credit programs in -ie
project area (para 4.05).
(c) Appointments to the posts of Project Manager and Assistant
Managers will be subject to prior approval by the Association
(para 5.08).






ANNEX }
Page I
AGRICULTURE
A. Agricultural Production
1.        The production of the major crops in the Central Region of Malawi
can best be assessed from the records of FMB markets (Table 1). These records
give a reliable indication of production of the two main cash crops, ground-
nuts and tobacco, for which there is a limited or no local market; in recent
years there has been an upward trend, although production is always subject
to seasonal influences. The variations in marketings of maize give less
reliable indications of changes in total production. Maize is the staple
food crop, and large quantities change hands without passing through the
FMB's licensed buyers. Production is affected by natural catastrophes such
as drought but the marketing of surpluses has been strongly influenced also
by political disturbances which threatened the growers' sense of security.
2.        Although cotton is grown at lower altitudes along the shores of
Lake Malawi, it is not grown commercially on the Lilongwe Plains. Despite the
fact that successful crops have been grown on research plots, government
policy does not envisage its introduction in this or in other areas where
alternative cash crops are available. Other crops ecologically suited to
the Plains, e.g., some annual plants yielding essential oils, command only
a very small market.
B. Agriculture in the ProAect Area
Rainfall
3.        The Lilongwe Plain is situated 140 South of the equator, within the
tropics, but its climate owes much to its altitude (3,600 - 4,000 ft), its
close proximity to the large expanse of Lake Malawi and to the influence
of the more distant Indian Ocean and mountains of Mozambique. Annual
rainfall varies from about 30 to 43 inches but is reliable and quite
adequate for the usual annual crops. Ninety percent of the rain falls
during the five months November to March end rainfall exceeds ev ?otran-
spiration during at least three of these months. Even in the wettest month
(January, average rainfall 8.4 in) there is an average of only 19 rainy days
and, sinee most soils drain freely, the weather seldom interferes with farm
work.
4.        The most important features of the climate in the area are the ade-
quacy and reliability of the rainfall. These minimize the financial risks
which attend the use of fertilizers in less fortunate maize-producing areas
and justify the heavy reliance that the Program places upon fertilizers as a
means of increasing production.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        However, the rainfall is not entirely benevolent.  Intense tropical
storms occur during the early part of the wet season. Falling upon sun-baked
soil, entirely devoid of vegetation cover at the end of the dry season, they
create a serious soil erosion hazard and necessitate the expensive conserva-
tion works included in the Program.
Soils
6.        The predominant soils of the program area are reddish tropical clays
and sandy clays: the alluvial soils of the shallow, concave valleys cover
about 20 percent of the land surface.
7.        The best soils, on the upper and middle slopes, are deep, well drainec
and moderately productive. Although levels of major plant nutrients are
adequate in these soils, crops respond to nitrogen and, after several years
of cropping, to phosphate fertilizers. On the lower slopes, especially
in the northern part of the area, drainage is impeded and soils are less
productive; crops respond to nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers even on the
virgin areas. None of the main soil associations appear to require potash
fertilizers.
8.        The alluvial soils are heavy clays, plastic and unworkable when wet
but very hard when dry. They are seldom cultivated and their responses to
fertilizers have not been studied.
Land Use
9.        The high ratios of cropped to fallow (5:1) and to unused but culti-
vable land (2.1:1) are a clear indication that pressure of population 1/ is
reaching the stage where falloving alone cannot restore fertility nor control
weeds. Except where they provide grazing, the existing grass fallows have
little value and the program will bring them into cultivation, relying on
fertilizers to maintain the nutrient status of the soil. The Program would
bring a further 80,000 acres of unused land into cultivation, but some land
would be taken out of production, either because it is not suitable for arable
farming or for the construction of conservation works and roads. The net gain
would be about 100,000 acres of productive land, of which 4o,000 acreas are now
fallow and 60,000 acres are now unused (see Table 2).
1/   The population density in the project area, 250 per sq mi, is well above
the level which de Wilde considers critical for bush fallowing - 103-130
per sq mi on fertile soils. See "Agricultural Development in Tropical
Africa", Volume 1, John Hopkins, Baltimore 1967, p. 21.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Cultivations
10.       The methods of cultivation are typically those of peasant farmers
relying solely on simple hand tools. There are a few tractors on private
estates and Department of Agriculture farms but no contract services are
available to smallholders. The possibility of including such a service
was considered but there was no economic or other justification.
11.       The average family can cultivate and harvest a six acre holding,
but larger farms are beyond the resources of family labor and must hire help
at peak periods. The use of ox-drawn implements has been demonstrated
successfully but it has been found that farmers need a great deal of help
in training their animals and in learning to handle unfamiliar implements.
Provision is made in the Program for medium-term credit for the purchase of
draft oxen and implements. Each set of implements is sufficient for 20
acres and 4,000 sets will be required but, in calculating the financial
provision, it has been assumed that half of the purchasers already own
suitable animals. The Program extension staff includes a special ox-training
section, with a staff of 30 demonstrators.
12.       The possibility of using simple hand-operated groundnut shelling
machines was considered but available types would cause breakage and damage,
rendering the nuts unsuitable for the confectionery trade.
Conservation Measures
13.       Brief reference has already been made to the need for measures to
control surface run-off of rain water. Uncontrolled run-off, in the short-
term, destroys growing crops; in the longer term, it causes loss of the
fertile top soil which, in the prevailing climatic conditions, is virtually
irreplaceable. The problems of erosion, already evident in the Central
Region, will be intensified as fallow and unused land which now absorbs
run--off is brought into cultivation and as land reorganization increases
the size of individual fields.
14.       There is a considerable body of practical experience of conser-
vation work in Malawi and empirical design standards have beer established.
The basic aim is to conduct run-off, at safe, non-erosive veloci -es, from
every part of the cropped land to some natural drainage way. Various types
of field structure have been used or proposed for this purpose: current
practice favors a Vee-bottomed ditch, with a cross-section area of nine
sq ft, graded at 1:400, which is more easily constructed and is better able
to accept small flows than a flat-bottomed terrace. The capacity of this
standard ditch is about 22.5 cusecs and where slopes are steep it may be
necessary to form the spoil into a narrow-based bund to increase capacity.
On normal slopes the excavated earth can be spread to form a raised, convex
field access road.



ANNEX 1
15.       The spacing of storm drains is determined by an empirical formula
relating the vertical interval between them to the slope: in many parts
of the project area the horizontal spacing will be about 220 yd: the
average length, one mile; and the area protected by each drain, 80 acres.
Crop Yields
16.       Unfertilized maize plots in demonstrations in the pilot project
have yielded 550 to 2,007 lb/ac, averaging 1,334 lb/ac, but these yields
reflect the higher-than-average standards of cultivation already brought
about by improved extension services. The average yield on normal farms
is at present about 1,100 lb/ac which, after allowing for known marketings
and for estimated seed and storage losses, provides a domestic consumption
of about 12.4 bags per family per year (about 1 1/3 lb per capita per day).
17.       The present normal farm yield of groundnuts is about 500 lb
marketable shelled nuts per acre and of tobacco about 200 lb cured dry
leaf per acre.
Improvement of Crop Yields
(a) Maize
18.       The synthetic maize variety Askari, which has been distributed
in the pilot project, shows every prosrect of fulfilling the promise shown
in research trials. When used as a mere substitute for local seed in the
traditional farming system, it yields about 15 percent more than unimproved
varieties, i.e., 1,265 lb/ac. However, Askari's response to timely planting,
thorough weeding and proper spacing greatly exceeds that of the local
varieties: average yields of 1,600 lb/ac are obtained by careful cultivation
without the use of fertilizers.
19.       Askari maize responds very well to fertilizer.  The recommended
application is 200 lb of sulphate of ammonia per acre. Over the period
1958-1964, the average yield in research station trials was 6,800 lb/ac:
the overrid4ng importance of the rainfall was emphasized by the low annual
variation, - 12 percent. An average of 3,366 lb/ac (48 percent of the
research station yield in the corresponding year) was obtained in 51 trials
on farmers' land in the Lilongwe District. In the future the best farmers
should achieve 40 percent of the research yield, i.e., 2,700 lb/ac.
20.       Satisfactory arrangements have been made for the multiplication
and distribution of stocks of Askari: the program is financed by the United
Kingdom. Experience has shown that farmers are prepared to exchange their
own seed or pay cash for Askari seed. The grain is palatable and accepted
by consumers.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(b)  Groundnuts
21.       Like maize, groundnuts respond well to timely cultivations,
proper spacing and thorough weeding, especially to close spacing which
reduces the incidence of rosette disease: yields may be increased
by 30 percent by careful cultivation alone, by Year 13, 80 percent of
growers shoul obtain this level, i.e. 650 lb/ac.
22.       The FMB has supplied all groundnut producing areas in Malawi
with selected seed of a large-kerneled, fleshy groundnut with a low oil
content of the type favored by the confectionery trade. This seed was
obtained by mechanical grading of the bulked commercial crop and is not a
true variety: constant renewal of seed stocks will be necessary. No
further increase in yields through improved seed can be expected until the
mid-1970s, when it is hoped that current breeding programs will provide
varieties resistant to the virus causing rosette disease and, later, to
the leaf-spot fungus.
23.       When groundnuts are grown in rotation with fertilized maize or
tobacco, they do not show economic responses to further dressings of
fertilizer. No provision for fertilizer for groundnuts is made in the
Program, although a farmer who uses no fertilizer in his rotation must
expect decreasing yields of groundnuts. The influence of deficiencies
of minor elements, especially of sulphur, on groundnut yield and quality
is well documented: in selecting types of fertilizer for maize and
tobacco, it must be borne in mind that groundnuts obtain important amounts
of these nutrients from the fertilizer residues.
(c) Tobacco
24.       Changes of tobacco variety cannot be undertaken lightly since
uniformity and flavors are the most important components of quality. The
variety now called "Malawi Dark Fired", derived from "Western", has been
standard since 1953 and no early change is envisaged. A seed multiplication
program ensures a regular supply of true-to-type new seed.
25        Tobacco is a demanding crop and responds very well to careful
cultivations, especially to proper techniques in raising to seedLings
before transplanting. It responds very well to balanced applications of
nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers, especially on lighter soils. The
recommended dressing is 200 lb of 20-20-0 per acre. 1/ Yields of 1,000 lb
cured leaf per acre are frequently recorded in trials and it has been
shown repeatedly that ordinary farmers can easily double their yields
to 400 lb/ac, the level assumed in the project.
Adoption of New Techniques
26.       A major extension effort will be needed to persuade a significant
proportion of farmers to adopt new techniques, especially in the case of
maize, which is traditionally regarded as a food rather than as a cash crop.
1/   20% N, 20% P205, 0  K



ANNEX 1
Page 6~
27.       In estimating the benefits of new methods for maize and ground-
nuts, it has been assumed that 10 percent of growers will refuse to adopt any
changes but that, after five years exposure to intensive extension campaigns,
90 percent of farmers will be using improved seed and that 80 percent will
make at least some improvement in their cultivation methods. In the case
of maize, it is assumed that the use of fertilizer will grow rather slowly,
until 45 percent of the crop receives fertilizer in the twelfth year.
28.       There is little doubt that tobacco growers will readily adopt new
methods; already, some 10 percent use fertilizer. The very limited and
sensitive market for dark-fired leaf, however, poses special problems.
The aim of the project is to double yields but halve the acreage, maintaining
a constant production. This regulation will be carried out through the
FMB's existing registration procedure.
29.       The role of the extension service in tobacco production will be
to encourage methods which increase yields without additional purchased
inputs, to foster techniques which improve quality during the growing and
curing of the crops and to ensure that use is made of the residual value
of fertilizers, e.g., by following tobacco with groundnuts.
Storage Losses
30.       The FMB stores and depots have adopted effective pest control
measures. Storage losses of groundnuts and tobacco, both of which are
marketed soon after harvest, are not serious. An aggressive extension
campaign has been mounted to teach farmers groundnut harvesting techniques
which minimize the risk of aflatoxin 1/ contamination.
31.       On-farm storage of maize is very unsatisfactory, especially since
the exposure to pest infestation is unduly prolonged by the farmers' habit
of holding back surpluses until the next crop is assured. The Department
of Agriculture estimates on-farm losses at 20 percent per annum, although
regular withdrawals for domestic use reduces the overall loss to about
15 percent. Simple storage hygiene methods, corn cribs of improved design,
an increasing willingness to sell surpluses soon after harvest, and the use
of insecticides in stores could markedly reduce storage losses. In es-
timating future trends, it has been assumed that, in each area, losses will
remain at 15 percent until the fourth year and then slowly decline to
10 percent in the twelfth year.
1/   Aflatoxin - a toxic substance, produced by a fungus, which causes
liver disease in man and animals.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
C. Animal Production
32.       More than half of the farmers in Lilongwe District own small
stock, and over 80 percent keep poultry, but only one in four owns cattle.
The recent imposition of a fee of one shilling per beast in areas served by
cattle dips has revealed the complexities of cattle ownership. Animals
are commonly owned by more than one person, often by the family group.
33.       The Veterinary Department estimates that the cattle population of
the Lilongwe District is 98,000 and that the annual offtake is 6,800. Milk
is consumed domestically although surpluses may be sold for cash in urban
areas.
34.       Stall-feeding of cattle is increasingly popular in the Southern
Region but has not yet been widely accepted in the Central Region, which is
less suited to fodder production. Only 14 head were stall fed in the
Lilongwe District in 1966 and the present demand from the towns is only
about two fat beasts per week. The project includes no provision for stall-
feeding, although it may be justified during later phases of the Program as
the local demand increases if the proposed Lilongwe abbattoir is built.






ANNEX 1
Table 1
MALAWI
FMB PURCHASES OF CROP SURPLUSES - CENTRAL REGION
1946 - 1967
Tobacco
Year            Groundnuts         Maize            Dark Fired
(sh ton)         (SR-M)              (M  lb)--
1946                924             6,830                 7
1947               574             5,200                13
1948                780            5,746                I1
1949                 -              5,108               15
1950                 _             5,410                21
1951               284            17,737                 21
1952              3,819            31,050               11
1953             4,244             36,046               23
1954              5,055           46,479                18
1955              7,872            36,105               11
1956              7,979            26,122                20
1957            10,868             5,194                20
1958              8,392            4,399                 25
1959              9,213             2,605               26
1960            17,126            10,254                13
1961             21,612            1,380                 0
1962             27,852                34               19
1963            18,224              2,353               28
1964            12,369            15,135                13
1965            17,928             4,535                24
1966             35,314           19,240                22
1967 (Estimate) 40,000             20,000               20



ANNA 1
Table 2
MAIAWI
LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CHANGES IN LAND USE
End of
Present      Program (Yr. 14)
('000 ac)        (1000 ac)
A. FARM LAND
Unsuitable for arable farms          150               150
Suitable, but lying idle              80                 0
Roads, storm drains, etc.              0                20
Sub-total, unproductive land       230              170
Existing farm land                   270               270
New farm land                                           60
TOTAL GROSS AREA                   500               500
('000 ac)        ('000 ac)
B. CROPPING
Fallow                                40                 0
Maize                                133               203
Groundnuts                            38                66
Tobacco                               47                23
Minor Crops                           12                38
TOTAL CROPPED AREA                 230              330
C. POPULATION
Farm families                     38,000            53,560
Cropped land, acres per farm
family                             6.1              6.2



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MARKETING AtID CREDIT
A. The Farmers Marketing Board
Responsibilities and Staffing
1.        The Farmers Marketing Board, hereafter referred to as the FMB, has
monopoly rights to purchase all major crops grown on African smallholdings;
so far, however, it has chosen to exercise this privilege only with respect
to cotton, groundnuts and tobacco. Maize is dealt with largely through
licensed traders who purchase from the farmer in his village and resell
to the FMB at its central depots.
2.        The responsibilities of the FMB are comprehensive.  Apart from
the purchase, storage, processing and disposal of produce grown on African
smallholdings, these include the maintenance of a price stabilization fund
to protect growers from excessive price fluctuations, the stocking of
food reserves to meet possible local shortages, and the supply at cost or
at a subsidized price of agricultural equipment and production requisites.
3.        In addition to providing market facilities, the FMB operates ground-
nut and tobacco grading centers and a seed production farm which multiplies
seeds of selected varieties from experimental stations for subsequent
distribution through the market network.
4.        Although autonomous in its day to day operations, the FMB is under
the general direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Close liaison
between the Government and the FMB is further ensured by the presence of
four senior government officials as ex officio Board directors. Respons-
ibility for administration is delegated to a Malawian General Manager who
is aided by an expatriate Assistant Manager. A Malawian Regional Manager,
located at Lilongwe, has responsibility for the Central Region. The FMB's
field and headquarters staff is adequate in both numbers and ability to
carry out its functions.
Market System
5.        Two types of market operate:  permanent markets which tnjoy proper
facilities for grading, weighing, buying ancdstorage, and temporary or
bush markets which consist merely of a buying shed, an enclosure, a cash
register, and a spring scale. To ensure fair treatment for the grower,
adequate handling facilities for the purchased commodities, and permanent
storage for food grain stocks, the FMB intends to transform these temporary
markets into permanent centers. At present only cotton and tobacco growers
are registered but producers of maize and groundnuts will be registered
in time for the 1966-67 crop cycle. Registration gives invaluable data
on crop production and is essential if credit programs are to be introduced
since the collection of amounts owing is made at the time and place of
the sale of crops. The successful operation of such a credit program will
require also the limitation of growers' selling activities to the specific
market at which the debt was originally incurred.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Pricing and Purchasing Policy
6.        It is the declared policy of the FMB to pay to the grower the
maximum possible price for his produce which is consistent both with world
prices and with Board operating costs. This is designed to stimulate pro-
duction and to speed the orientation of growers towards a cash economy.
To augment this policy the FMB with the approval of the Ministry of Economic
Affairs publishes provisional prices at planting time and final prices
Just before harvest.
7.        The FMB must purchase all produce offered to it provided that it
cannot be classified as damaged, dirty or spoiled; and in the case of
tobacco, that it is of the variety designated to be grown in that particular
area.
Trading Policy and Market Prospects
8.        FMB trading accotmts for 1964-66 are given in Table 1.  Purchases
in the Central Region were confined to groundnuts, tobacco, maize and general
produce. The groundnuts produced in Malawi are entirely hand shelled and
the resultant high grade produce is in demand primarily for confectionery
purposes; the United Kingdom is the predominant buyer. In 1966, a record
crop of 47,000 tons was purchased by the FMB, but difficulty in selling on
the usual market was experienced owing to a combination of factors. These
included flooding of the market by heavy supplies of Chinese high grade nuts,
credit squeeze conditions in the U.K., and a high purchased proportion of
stained and mouldy nuts. As a consequence, the surplus stock had to be
disposed of on the crusher market. Grading standards have been improved in
the 1967 season to ensure a consistently high standard quality confectionary
grade nut.
9.        In spite of the difficulties and uncertainties inherent in the
export of confectionery nuts, they will continue, in general, to command
a substantial premium over the somewhat higher yielding oil varieties; the
U.K. market is capable of absorbing up to approximately 45,000 tons in
most years, but expansion beyond this will have to be accompanied by a
shift into oil variety nuts. It is, therefore, likely that these will
constitute an increasing percentage of total production. In view of this,
and of the vicissitudes of the confectionery nut market, it is probable
that the FMB will not be able to maintain the pre-devaluation purchase price
equivalent to 6.9 pence per pound at the new rates. A purchase price of 6d
would just enable the FMB to break even at the projected long-run average
export price of L62 per long ton c.i.f. London (Z62 per short ton f.o.r.
Limbe). A gradual decline to 6.4d per pound has been assumed in valuing the
economic benefits of the Program.



AITNEX 2
Page 3
10.       The Government and the FMB are fully aware of the problems posed
by overproduction of tobacco. The FMB liaises closely with trade exporters
in order to predict future demand as accurately as possible; control of
supply is exercised by purchasing only from registered growers and by
retaining the right to designate the type of tobacco which will be
purchased at specific markets. It has indeed gone so far as to close
one market for the purchase of tobacco, urging growers in the area to change
over to groundnut production. These measures, in addition to the control
over prices paid to the grower, should, by limiting production to the
amount for which exporters will pay a remunerative price, ensure a favor-
able margin on tobacco trading.
11.       Trading in maize is variable with no specific pattern so far
established. This is fully understandable in the case of a basic food
crop as sales of surplus grain will only occur when the success of the
subsequent year's crop is certain. Sales by the Board are both local, in
tood deficit areas, and in the export market. The FMB is obliged to maintain
a. national stock of maize against possible food shortage; at the present time
this amounts to 15,000 tons. In 1966 exports totalled 49,000 tons, 20,000 of
which were sold to the Congo (K). The remainder went to the British market
where brokers for the distilling trade are reputed to be prepared to purchase
up to 240,000 tons per annum at the ruling market price. During the current
year, an unexpected bumper crop of maize in southern and central Africa
together with higher freight rates resulting from the closing of the Suez
Canal, has resulted in a decline in fob prices of about thirty percent, and
the Fl B is experiencing rather substantial losses on maize at its present
purchase price.
12.       However, this is regarded as a short run problem, and export
prices are expected to recover soon to about their previous level. Thus,
given its good competitive position, Malawi maize should in the future be
able to sell near the recent level of E17 per short ton, ex Limbe. The FMB
is purchasing the 1967 crop at the pre-devaluation price of 21 shillings a
bag, (or E10.5 per short ton) which compares with the previous long standing
price of 18/9 pence per bag;  in 1966 the FMB made a profit in maize trading
of over two shillings a bag.  Taking account of devaluation and the possib-
ility of a gradual longer term decline in world prices, as the ex"ortable
surplus grows, a price of 22/2 pence has been used in valuing the benefits
of the Program.
13.       Increased production of beans in Rhodesia and South Africa
closed both these traditional export markets to the 1966 Malawian crop;
it was eventually sold to Japan at a loss to the FMB of E91,000. In future
growers will be encouraged to reduce the growing area devoted to beans.
Trading Accounts of FMB
14.       The Trading Accounts of the FMB for the three years 1964-66
are shown in Table 1. Appreciable inter-seasonal variations in the
purchases of crops are evident, the most notable being the losses ex-
perienced in 1966 on cotton, (E10,000) and on general produce.  In spite



ANNEX 2
Page 4
of these losses, the overall Trading Account shows a profit of E705,000
in 1966, compared with q94o,ooo in 1964 and E1,164,000 in 1965.
15.       In 1964 and 1965 subsidies on fertilizers are incorporated in
the Trading Account; in 1966 these subsidies are transferred to the
Income and Expenditure Account (Table 2). The fertilizer subsidy has
become an important item of costs to the FMB:
Quantity of Fertilizer
Sold (Short tons)        Cost to FMB
1964                              2,200                 37,000
1965                              6,200                 78,000
1966                              9,400                 77,500
The figures do not show the full cost of the subsidy.  In 1965 the West
German Government donated 660 tons of fertilizer and provided the subsidy
for a further 1,170 tons while in 1966 the U.K. Government made a grant
of L75,000 towards the subsidy costs. Forecasts of fertilizer use in
Malawi show further appreciable increases in consumption, and under the
present system it is clear that an ever increasing burden would be placed
upon the PMB. The Government proposes to set a ceiling figure upon subsidy
contributions of E300,000 and gradually to increase the price of fertilizer
aiming to eliminate support entirely by 1976.
Financial Position of FB
16.       The net worth of the FMB as at 12/31/66 was E4.3 m, (see Table 3);
this is composed of an accumulated trading surplus of L1.6 m, a price
support fund reserve of 12.5 m, and other reserves of Z0.2 m. The last
figures include a contingency reserve of E59,000 and a research reserve
of I125,000. One-half percent of the gross value of the produce sold is
transferred to a research reserve each year, but no payments out of this
fund have been made.
B. Credit
17.       The Central Farmers Loan Board (CFLB) was established in
1964 and is the only specialized agency dealing with agricultural credit
in Malawi. So far, however, it has transacted little business, although
medium and long-term loans may be contracted for an impressive range of
investments: farm buildings, construction, conservation and water supply
works, livestock, farm implements, fencing materials and fishing boats.
Operations have been hampered by poor administrative practices and lack
of field experience. The Government is aware of the shortcomings of the
present system and will take active steps over the next few years to
improve the service. But it would not be realistic at present to expect
CFLB to undertake credit responsibilities on the scale envisaged in the
Development Program.



ANlNEIX 2
Page 5
18.       There is no organized commercial distribution of farm supplies in
Malawi and no hope that an adequate retail network can be established in rural
areas, such as the project area, until a large number of farmers have accepted
the need for regular use of purchased inputs. Faced with this situation
throughout the country, the FMB have long undertaken to sell (at cost, but
only for cash) fertilizer, insecticide, implements and sprayers. With this
experience, FMB is the best agency to distribute and sell the requisites
which will be imported under the project.
19.       At first, however, few farmers will have the necessary cash to
make purchases and the project includes a credit service. Agair, the FMB is
the best agency to administer credit.
20.       The use of credit will be supervised by extension workers and credit
officers. No cash advances will be made, the credit officer issuing a purchase
order which will be exchange for goods at the FMB market.  Repayments will be
made when the farmer sells his crop to the same market but credit officers
will be empowered to issue certificates reducing or deferring repayments in
the event of crop failures.
21.       The key to the control of credit and repayments will be the FMB
registration card, issued to all farmers in the project area.  The FMB retain
the master card, issuing a copy to the farmer: in futare they will also
issue a copy to the local credit officer. All credit and marketing trans-
actions will be entered on these cards by the automatic print-out cash
registers already used at FMB markets. For sales on credit, interest at
10 percent will be added to the cash sale price to cover the cost of admin-
instering the scheme and to make provision for bad debts.
22.       The credit service will be financed by a central fund-set up by the
Program management. FMB will make regular financial reports to the fund and
would be paid at cost for services rendered. Any balances in the fund at the
end of the Project will be used to continue extension and credit work in the
area, or as a part of Government's contribution to the financing of subsequent
phases of the Program.






h A L A .4 I
FAR,O'S' MARKETIW1 BOARD - PROFIT (LOSS)
Trading Account for the year endling 31st December A/
1964                                                  1965                                                      1966
Other                                                   Other                                                   Other
Cott_n _ _ouxinuts= Tobacco   Produce   Total         Cotton   5roundnuts   Tobacco   Produce   Total          Ctton _ roundnut _ Tobacco   ProAA_    ce   Total
P-rchase of Crop                                           763       768          767      823      3,121       1,127     1.050         1,925     1,309    5.4110         631       2.260       1,423       1.530   5,o44
Bu;mng and Direct xpenses                                  137       176          293      135        742         219       231           560       202    1.212          190         333         471-        218   1,213
ceing - _oni;ission to Co-operatives                     13        22            -       10         45          20        28            -         12       60           -           -           -           -        -
Processing (.rading, Ginning, Baling)            66         -          167        -        233         105         -           313         -      418           74          15         266          -      355
Labour                                            9        23           L8       18         99           9        23            67        40      138           45          39          60          61      204
Transport                                        15        74           60       75        255          32      lZO            128       109      369           27         196         101          70     3S8
0-ther 1rpenses                                  34        57           18       32        140          53        80            52        41       227          44          89          44          87      266
Research Grants andSubsidies                                15         -           48        -          63         29         -            69        23       120          16           -            -         -        16
being - Research Grants                                   13          -          11        -          24         18                      13         -        31           16          -            _         -        16
8ertilizer Subsidy 1/                              -         -           37        -         37           -         _            56        23       78            -           -           -          -        -
Cotton Pest Fsqip ent Subsidy 2/                  2         -            -        -           2         11         -             -         -        11
Selling Expenses                                            82         88          47       56         273         85       141            56         7       290         120         109           42        196      467
Total Purctases atsl Direct &pnses                         997     1.032        1.155    1,011,      4,199      1.460     1.422         2.610     1,541    7.032          957       2,702        1.936      1,944   7,540
Sales of Crop                                              902     1,504        2 1O0    1.243       5 749      1,214     1.708         3,106     1,296    7,325        1.242       1,356        2,372      1,733   6,703
Less. Stockc or. hard at begirnnig of year               328       249          288      385      1,251         436         4             -       200       641         778         238            -        496   1,512
574     1,255       1,812       858      1,498         778     1,704,       3,106      1,096    6,681,          63      1,119        2,372       1,237   5,191
Add:  Stocks m hand at end of year                       436          4        _         200         641        778       238             -       49,6    1,512         484       1,852           40        678   3,055
rotal Sales AdJusted for Stocks                          1,010     1,259        1,812    1,058      5,139       1,556     1,942         3,106     1,592    8,196          947       2,971        2,412      1,915   8,246
Balance on Tradir,g Account                                 13       227          657       44         940         96       520           496        51    1,164           (10)       269          476         (29)    705
'to traisfer to inczre and expeccditure account)        _          _                                           -
1/ Cost of fortilizer subsidy in 1966 transferred to income and experditure account.
2/ Cost of cotton pest equipment subsidy in 1965 was met by a U.K. government grant, the balamce of which (i13,272) is credit in valuation of sprayers in hand.
3/ Inconsisten.ies are due to rounding errors.



ANNE 2
Table 2
MALAWI
FARMES MARKETING BOARD
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBmRl-/
1964    1965    1966
i 1000
BXPENDITURE
Administration and General Charges                      260     283      335
being:   Bank Charges and Interest on Overdraft           4      21       47
Rent Rates Electricity and Water               22       27      25
Salaries and Iages                            105      108     162
Transport and Travel                           31       39      17
Other Expenses                                 98       88      84
MAINTENANCE                                                 71     115      126
DEPRECIATION                                               216     244      111
RESEARCH GRANTS AND SUBSIDIES                               _8      49      126
being:   Research Grant to Malawi Government             48      4g       48
Fertilizer Subsidy                             -        -       78
Otber                                          -         1      -
TOTAL EXPENDITURE               595      692     698
INCOME
Balance on Trading Account                              940   1,164      705
Add:     Sundry Revenue                                  20      18       33
TOTAL INCOME                    960   1,182      738
BATEANCE                                                   365     490       ho
Lass:       Transfer to Reserves and
Provision for Bad Debt                       29      141      33
SURPLUS TRANSFERRED TO PRICE SUPPORT
FUND/ACCUMULATED SURPLUS                                 336     309        7
1/ Inconsistencies due to rounding errors.



ANNSX 2
Table 3
MALAWI
FARMERS MARKETING BOARD
BALANCE SHEET AT 31st DECaM i /
1964    1965    1966
L '000
ASSSTS
Fixed Assets (after depreciation)                        558     574      602
Being:   Freehold Properties                             220     307      325
Leasehold Properties                           219.    129      109
Plant, Machinery, Equipment and Vehicles       119     138      168
Works in Progress (Capital Works)                         92      31      300
I  Investments                                              139     166      311
Being:  IDEalawi Government                               10      60       65
Malawi Development Corporation                 100      100     100
David Whitehead (Malawi) Ltd.                   -        -      130
Others                                          29        6      16
Loans                                                     49      88      417
Being:   Malawi Government                                -       -       400
Malawi Development Corporations                  2       17      17
Others                                          47       71      -
Qurrent Assets                                         3,081   3,648   4,611
Being:   Stocks Stores and Crops                         838   1,832   3,605
Debtors trade, staff and cooperatives          621      925     581
Balance at bankers, cash and transit         1,622      891     425
Offsetting Accounts                                       68      74       71
TOTAL                3,987   4,581   6,312
TTABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Current Liabilities and Provisions                       186     2147   1,923
Being:   Creditors:  Trade and Cooperatives              186     247      204
Bank Overdraft                                  -        -    1,719
Net Worth                                             3,732   4,260   4,318
Being:  AAccumulated Surplus                           1,491   1,1491   1,599
Price Support Fund                           2,162   2,549   2,500
Reserves for Research, Contingencies, etc.    79        220     219
Offsetting Accounts                                       68      74       71
TOTAL                3,987 -4,581   6,312
1/ Inconsistencies are due to rounding figures to L 000.






.A:zma 3
Table1
i  A  L  A  W  I
Foreign
Foreign Jxchangn   ExchanZ-
Total Excl.                      Total Incl.    Cost Including    as % cr
Contingency   Contingency 1/   Contingency    Contingency 2/          Total
1. CApilrAL                             II~~~~~ 000     1 000            1 000            11 000 
1.  CAPITAL^°°°                                                         °2               7°8;°°*
H'cu5s;ing                                        6?6             22              768                A58           .-7
,ehicles                                         130             18               it8                56
9IaipnenL and ilachinery                         71               6               77                 74
3,:rvey Equip,ent                                195              16              211                200 ,
Aerial Photograph y                                51 3                            58                  7 
Well caring and pumps                               7              17P
fen t :, toolo, other                             53               4               57 41
132             11                                  77
Contingency (il. )..                                                                -                 -             -
.'  UAL tU2AL, including contingency                    -               _                                  86 
,. __________v"
>rf' ar820                                                       89              902               28:4            31
''4rnumerar: rtaff in training                    15               1               16                  -             C)
.nsiaal Lal:,or                                    38              6               4- _                              I
/aenicle operationc and travel                    73               8               81                68             84
oquipment operationo                              86             10                96                7 2           75
.3aintenance Buildings                            140             14               14L                 5            1'
Office 6upplier and Services                       32              4               36                 18
C ner rharz-es                                     614             569                                3s'!,'
i;179                                -                 -
.r,ntz-.c'.y (10.87%)                             _             12-
k2z'L i;CUC S3T, _ncluding contingency                                  ,295                                8
3.  :-A~   DITFUTS
3.  rtilI;!PU.S                                  121               4               125               125           1C"
Tnnm inplement- 27                                                 1                28                18          __
lonrtinzency(3.Y,)                                _                   5
_'U,AL FAIk I:UPUTS  including contingency              -                              153_              Ih3
',.  'uA.'  CCu' e:zcluclin, contingency               2,  
,-.:AL CCO;NTLNGU0CY (10.7")                 -2 -_
C.  ')OTAL COST. including contingency
,U0, dollar equivalent)                                                         L7,910           UJ) 
_ _ ____________________                                     ( ~~~~~~$7.003)   ($3j581)
1,'  ContingfinciA-, averaeing 11 per cent ove'al 1,wers aasessed for individual itens in eac'i year taking intc
account rel4ability of unit cost and requirement estimates and the uncertainties of future donestic iric-
tr'n6nC .'olloawing devaluation on 20 Nlovember, 1267.
2>' r'ureign SYchange cost includes 100 per cent of f.o.r. (Blantyre) cost of direct inLpcrts and pascages for
expatriate staffj  50 per cent of expatriate salaries (saving plus terminal aratuities);lwx L200 re-
settlement costs in first and last year;  145 per cent of eastinated cost of standard houscs; and indivdiAs
esinatee for other itemq.  Njo foresi   exchange cost is imputed to local s'taff, labor or services.



MALAWI
LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PHASE 1 - ESTIMATED EXPENDITURE
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total
L  000    ; 000      L  000    L  000    L 000
1.  Agricultural Development Branch               29         18         17         17        81
2. Project Management
a)  Headquarters administration           164         54          48         44      310
b)  In-service training 1/                 27         14         15          14.       70
c)  Program evaluation                     16         11          15         12       54
207        79          78         70       4
3.  Field Administration                                                           86
4. Land Development
a)  Soil conservation 2/                  175        103          81         70      429
b)  Roads and bridges                      86         60          57         52       255
a)  Water Development Department, MOW-  32            49          23         24      128
293       212         161        146       812
5.  Extension Service                             71         -            -'                318
6. Land Reorganization and Registration
a)  Survey Department  /                  112         31          31         30      204
b)  Registrar of Titles                    10          3           4          4        21
c)  Project Lands Section                  29         31          21         20      101
15)1        65          56        54       326
7. Marketing
a)  Improvements to Marktst                 1          1           3          4         9
b)  Depot Storage                           -          -          71          -       71
1         1          74          4        80
8.  Credit Service                               46         31          39         41       157
9. Farm Inputs
a)  Fertilizer, seasonal                   16         22          32         51      121
b)  Other, medium-term                      1          4           9         13        27
17        26          41         64       148
10. Contingencies 5/                             87         42          78         76       283
TOTL                                      956        606         708       648      2918
NOTES:  1/   Includes training officer, housing and supernumerary posts
2/ Tractor and overhead costs allocated to soil conservation and roads pro rata
to tractor hours required.
3/   Includes capital cost of two drilling and one mainterance rigs and materials,
etc., for 144 boreholes.
4/   Includes equipment, staff and aerial photograph for both topo and cadastral
survey.
5/   See footnote  1/, Annex 3,  Table 1.



A1NEX 3
Table 3
MAIAWI
LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Cost of
Project Cost           Completion
w000               After Yr. 4
Capital:
Houses                         768
Other buildings                148                     -
Vehicles                        77                     24
Machinery and equipment        211                     17
Survey equipment                58                    -
Aerial surveys                   8                     -
Well casing and pumps           57                     -
Tents, tools, other            143                     -
1,470                    41
Recurrent:
Staff                          925;/ ff306
Casual labor                    44                      5
Building maintenance            44                      8
Vehicle operation               81                      9
Machinery operation             96                     -
Office Supplies                 36                      3
Other                           69                      6
1,295                   336
Farm Inputs:
Fertilizer                     125
Implements                      28
TOTAL                        29183
1/ Includes L 16,000 for supernumerary staff in training.






MALAWI: LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PHASING
PROJECT YEAR               I        2        3        4        5       6        7        8         9       10       I1       12        13
CROP SEASONS
1T |  t  *   PRESENT PROJECT- ----* _       PHASE 2                   t              PHASE 3
UNIT I       1C1     amoiJi_
I75,000sac E iE-'-(-A
UNIT 2        L
75,000 oc               0 EJ
ITIT3                                                                                                                      I
50,000 DC
UNIT 4                                         r
75, O00oc              I
II~ ~ ~~~I
UNITS                                                                 RA
75_000 o                                                                                                                  _
Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
37.000 ac
KE:SUVY SAT                    CNTUCIN:I 00140                                                           T E tE
UNIT 8 ~ ~ ~ ~ TOORPI                                            RmETNSO                                               S EESR
75000 oc                            IIAASRLWAEWYSRAS TR DAN MRES                              Ot DSRC
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r






ANNEX 4
Page 1
THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
1.        The Department of Agriculture is organized on a regional basis.
Each of the three regions enjoys a marked autonomy, subject to national
policies.  This organization is hardly suitable for dealing with major
development prolects and Government has established a separate Development
Branch which will be located at Lilongwe. This Branch will undertake the
management of new proJects until they are sufficiently established to
require no more than the normal serv' ces of the regional organization.
2.        The Central Region's agricultural service is administered in five
districts, each subdivided into a number of areas. Table 1 shows the
present staffing of the Lilongwe District, the pilot project, and that
proposed in the 13-year Program.
3.        Extension workers are provided with detailed work plans by the
extenoion specialist at Regional Headquarters, who also prepares visual
aids of local interest to supplement material available from the national
extension aids branch. Considerable use is made of mass participation
meetings and demonstrations on farmers' own land. Self-help and voluntary
workers are organized through ad hoc village committees, which even undertake
the collection of money for fertilizers.
11,       The Department's main research station is near Lilongwe.  Current
programs include plant breeding and fertilizer work on maize and tobacco.
The grain legume pathology laboratory's program will provide farmers with
disease-resistant groundnut varieties by the mid-1970s: in the meantime,
agronomic practices which limit the effect of diseases are being studied.
Staff Training
5.        The Colby School of Agriculture, near Lilongwe, offers two-year
courses in practical agriculture, leading to the certificate which is the
necessary qualification for intermediate departmental staff. As a result
of a 1966 study 1/, the school has taken over the facilities of the former
Farmers' Training Institute at nearby Likuni. This will allow an annual
output of 180 by 1970.
6.        The University of Malawi's College of Agriculture, at Bunda
in the Program area, will provide diploma and degree courses. The output
should reach 60 diplomates and 15 graduates per year by 1972.
XJ "Report on Agricultural Staffing and Education Requirements in Malawi,
1966-1974", ADS, Nairobi, 1966.



ANNEX 1
Farmer Training
7.       Between July 1964 and September 1966, the 90-place Likunii Farmers'
Training Institute was the major farmer training center in the Fegion.
Students included farmers, local leaders and young men and women. About
one-third of the available time was devoted to in-service training of
Departmental and. FM3 staff. The utilization of the facilities was commend-
ably high and thie quality of courses was apparently satisfactory. The
Region has no alternative major institute but a netwvork of five divisional
centers and 33 local training centers is being constructed. Lilongwe
Division will be served by the completed 30-place center at Nsaru and by
siX local centers, of which four lie within the Program area. No additional
farmer training facilities are included in the Project, although they may veil
be needed in later phases of the Program.
Veterinary Extension Services
8.       Veterinary services in the region are organized on the same basis
as agricultural extension. The regional headquarters staff includes two
veterinarians and one technical officer, specializing in marketing.
Lilongwe District is administered by a livestock officer suppor'4ed by an
assistant together with 29 veterinary assistants, i.e., about one worker
per 3,000 cows. The department is responsible for the supervision of
cattle marketing as well as for animal health services. The latter
includes the provision and operation of cattle dips to control ectoparasites:
16 plunge dips serve the Program area, 11 being within the boundaries.



CENTRAL REGION, MALAWI
STAFFING OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICES
Lilon&e District  Pilot Project        Pro                     sals   2/
1st 2 yrs.    end er.-           Thereafter
Grade             Qualification        No.  Contracts 1  No.  Contracts  o. Contracts  No. Contracts  No. Cota
Technical Officer    Diploma (3 yr.)           4     422,6o0      2     1,300    1    1O,0OO      1    10,000    I   10,000
Technical Assistant  Certificate (2 yr.)   33         5,200       7        360   50        200   25        400   12        840
Demonstrators         Primary School         56       3,000       5        525  l| i/       
Notes:  1/ Number of farmers per worker
2/ Numbers and contracts are for a 100,000 acre area and include extension workers only. The first figure is
for the period of active development, the second for the transitionary period. Thereafter the responsibility
for extension reverts to the regionfal agricultural service.
3/ Ox-drawn implement training section.






ANNEX 5
Pag e 1
ORGANIZATION,AND STAFFING
Organization
1.        The Program includes a share of the cost of the Agricultural
Development Branch, established to supervise major development schemes, to
coordinate procurement and reimbursement of expenditures, and to lay down
priorities for recruitment, building, etc.
2.        The Program Manager will be directly responsible in all matters to
the Chief Agricultural Officer of the new branch but will maintain very close
liaison with all regional authorities, especially the Regional Agricultural
Officer.
3.        Diagram 1 shows the organization of management.
4.        Assistant managers will be responsible for each of the three main
functions - administration, extension and credit, and lar.d development.  The
administration will be represented at each level by district (100,000 acres)
and area (20,000 acres) managers who will coordinate all local activities
and provide common services.  One assistant manager wiUl be responsible for
both extension and credit but field work will be carried out by separate
staffs of extension workers and credit supervisors.
5.        A fourth assistant manager will be responsible for the reorganiza-
tion of holdings, working in close cooperation with the survey unit and the
title registry which will be established as a part of the project.
Training
6.        Because of the acute shortage of trained Malawian technicians,
provisions of up to E6,ooo per annum are included in Phase I of the Program
to cover the cost of supernumeraries-in-training. All aspects of in-service
training will be supervised by a Training Officer, directly responsible to
the Program Manager, who will also maintain close contact with departmental
and University institutions.
Program Evaluation
7.        A small unit, headed by an agricultuLral economist, writh a staff of
enumerators will conduct surveys to determine the effect of changes and the
effectiveness of techniques employed in the Program. The main purpose is to
provide information for updating the present rogram but the unit will also
produce data of use in planning other projects elsewhere in Malawi.
Recruitment of Staff
8.        Table 1 shows the annual requirements of skilled manpower during
Phase I and the maximum that will be required at ary time during the 13-year
Program.






MALAWI: LILONGWE PROGRAM
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
CHIEF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT OFFICER|
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANAGER                                                      M ANAGER                      |MSHIRE RRJT
F    D-PUY  ANAGER 
ASSISTANT MANAG6ER   ||ASSISTANT MANAGER ||ASSISTANT MiANAGER|
f  LAND DEVELOPMENT                            ADINISTRATION                         CREDIT AND EXTENSION
ASSISTANT MANAGER                PLANNING                 CONSERVATION            3 DISTRICT   ANGRS                                         CREDIT OFFiCER            TRAINING OFFCE
LAND REORGANIZATION               OFFICER                     OFFICER                                                                         CRE PTORFI00,000NINACRES)E
5 ASSISTANT                          ~~~~~~3 DISTRICT EXTENSION     3 DISTRICT CREDIT
|  CON-SERVATiON  l                              [      >      t     1       |  if PEROFFICERS  fiCRS
OFFXERS                       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~It D KR IDOPOD ACRES)  (i PER 100,000 ACRES)
r  , AREA MANArGERS 
(t PER 20,000 ACRES) 
3 LAND DEMARCATION                                    4 CONSTRUCTION TEAMS                                       30 ox TRAINERS          30 CREDIT SUPERVISORS        SUPERNUMERARY POSTS
TEAMS                                                 ORSPS150 EXTENSIO  WORKERS                                                    IIPR100 A.IS                  L6,ooo PER YEAR)
TEASfS                          |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~WORKSiBOPS                               (I PER 20 FANflLIESI        lPR)OOf*lfS                  L,0   E  ER
REGISTRAR                                                                     MI l  MNISTRY                                                FARMERS
OF TITLES      IDEPARTMENT                                                    OF WORKS                                                    MARKETING
3, BOREHOLE TEAMS                                                BOARD
REGISTRATION                                         SOIL CONSERVATION,                    USE OF FERTILIZER     IMPROVED MIARKETINO      FARM CREDIT                  IN-SERVlCE
OF TITLE                                          ROADS. WATER SUPPE,Y                     AND IMPROVED           AND STORAGE         fOR FERT;L:ZER. ETC              TRAINING
TO HOLDOiNGS                                          AND NEW LAND                             METHODS
IN PRODUCTION
August. 1967                                                                                                                                                                                  F' Th;-3499






ANNEX 5
Page 2
9.        It will be necessary to recruit 84 professional and technical
officers during the first four-year Phase, including five managers with a
wide background of practical agriculture.  The requiremeent for diplomate
and graduate agriculturalists cannot be satisfied by local institutions
until Phase 2 and it will be necessary to recruit 43 non-Malawians during
Phase I. The government favors the employment of non-Malawians in posts
for which there is no fully-qualified Malawian and no difficulties are likely
to arise in obtaining experienced staff on contract terms. As has been
noted, provision has been made for appointing Malawians to supernumerary
posts so that they may gain experience before taking over full responsibility
in senior posts.
10.       The need for Agricultural Assistants, 148 by Year h and a maximum
of 186 during the 13-year Program, will be met in part by direct recruit-
ment from Colby School. Many Colby trainees, however, will enter the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, releasing experienced men to fill "Higher Technical
Assistant" vacancies in this and other development programns. In all, it is
expected that about half of the Program's Agricultural Assistants will have
received training elsewhere and the remainder will require in-service training.
Mechanics, operators, and drivers will also require in-service training but
there are existing courses for survey assistants.
Staff Costs
11.       Salary costs have been calculated from the standard government pay
scales: appropriate allowances, a fixed sum of 25 percent of salary to
cover the cost of gratuity or pension, and leave passages or travel costs
have been included.  Rents, calculated at standard government rates, and
estimated income tax have been deducted from the total staff cost to obtain
the net cost shown in the financial tables.
12.       It is assumed that the salaries of local staff will be paid en-
tirely in local currency. In calculating the foreign exchange cost of non-
lalawians, allowance has been made for passages and for resettlement costs
in the first and last year. It is assumed that 50 percent of salary and
allowances will be taken abroad as savings or leave pay. As noted in para.
4.05, a seven percent contingency allowance has been added to local costs
to provide for uncertainties arising from the recent devaluation f the Malawi
pound.
Departmental Services
13.       The Project includes provision for on-lending US$210,000, at
commercial interest rates, to the FnM for the construction of markets and
storage facilities. The government will make other allocations of Program
funds to departments who carry out services on behalf of the management.






ANNlE 5-
Page 3
In Phase I, these allocations will total E336,ooo comprising:
Ministry of Works - E128,000 to the Water Development Department
for the drilling and maintenance of boreholes. The allocation
includes VL4h,000 for the purchase of equipment for two drilling
and one maintenance unit as well as the cost of staff and materials.
Departmet           s - £201,000 for the establishment and staffing
of a survey office in Lilongwe, which would provide all the topo-
graphical and cadastral surveys required for the Program. The
allocation includes E8,000 for an office and £38,000 for equipment,
the major item being a photogrammetric plotter and ancillary
equipment (f18,000).
Registrars of Titles - £21,000 for the establishment and staffing
of a registry in Iilongwe.
14.       The Ministry of Works will provide designs and supervise the
erection of buildings and will assist with the procurement of plant and
machinery. Any direct costs will be paid from Project funds.






MALAWI
LILONGWE PROJECT
SKILLED MANOPEI
Post                                                 Phase I      _3-yr. Program
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4             Required
Chief Agricultural Development Officer                                   1               1                            1
Managers                                     Non Malawian           54
Malawian              1          1          1
Agriculturalists                             Non M4alawian         5          5          5          5
Malawian              -          -          -          1                3
Other Professionals                          Non Malawian          3          3          3          3                 3
Malawian              -          -          _
Agricultural Technicians                     Non ilalawiar        12         19         22         22               22
Malawian              3          6         12         19               37
Other Technicians                            Non lNalawian         3          8          8          9                 9
Malal,rian            8         15         17         18                21
Technical Assistants                        H1A 1/                 5         10         15         21                31
TAZ7                 24         48         77        127              155
Surveyors Assistants                                              26         42         42         42                42
l4echanics Operators                                               15        27         34         34                314
Clerks, Typists                                                   35         57         75         82               90
PROJECT TOTAL       146        2147       317        391              473
1/ Higher Technical Assistants, salaxy scale L318 - t£62.
2/ Technical Assistants, salary scale £ 149 - £297.
CD \






M A L A W I
LILONGWE DEVEIJOPMFNT PROGRAM
ECONOMIC BENEFITS IF PROGRAM COMPLETED
Less Cost                                                 Net Costs
Gross Value   Gross Value   Total Gross         of           Other on-        Net      Less: Program       and
Year      Maize       Groundnuts      Benerfits     Fertilizer V  farm Inputs   Benefits            Costs 2/  Benefits
1          1                              1               _               -       +    1         921          -  920
2          2               1              3               6               4       -    7         562          -  569
3          9              31             40              16              15       +    9         565          -  556
4         57              80            137              36              36       +   65         557          -  492
5        176             177            353              75              67       +  211         571             360
6        324             267            591             127              92       +  372         536          _  164
7        485             367            852              90             129       +  533         503          +   30
8        721             478         1,199              248            137        +  814         U412         +  372
9        792             497         1,289              313            144        +  832         2 6          +  563
10        857             512          1,369             352             151       +  866          216         +  650
11        906             524          1,430             388             156       +  886         176          +  710
12        943             537          1,480             421             159       +  900        J]L8          +  752
13        960             548          1,508             447             162       +  899         118          +  781
14        971             555          1,526             447             163       +  916         .32          +  884
15        971             555          1,526             447             163       +  916          32          +  884
16        971             555          1,526             447             163        +  916         32          +  884
17        971             555          1,526             447             163       +  916           32         +  884
18        971             555          1,526             447             163       +  916          32          +  884
19        971             555          1J,526            447             163        * 916          32           +  884
20        971             555          1,526             447             163        +  916         32          +  884
21        971             555          1,526             447             163       +  916          32          +  884
22        971             555          1,526             447             163       +  916          32          +  884
23        971             555          1,526             447             163        +  916         32          +  884
24        971             555          1,526             447             163        +  916         32          +  884
25        971             555          1,526             447             163        +  916         32          +  884
Internal rate of return to the economy 13 percent
Notes: 1/ Excluding present consumption of L16,oQO                                                                         11o
2/  Excluding present cost of staff in area (I17,000) and the cost of the new FMB marketing and storage
facilities, the depreciation of which would be charged against FMBIs normal operations.



M A L A W I
LILON(IdE DEVELPMENT PROGRAM
ECONOMIC RETURN IF PROGRAM STOPPED AFTER FIBST PHASE
AU Amounts in UOO's
Gross Value  Gross Value  Total Gross  Less Cost    Lesa Cost           Net  Iss Project  Gross Cost Residual  Net Cost
Year     Maize      Groundnuts    Benesfits      ortiaser  Other Iputs  Benefit           Costs      & Benefits   Values   & Benefit
1         12                          12            _            -           12           921        _909                    909
2         32             -            32            6            4           22           562        -540          -       -540
3         90            26           116           16           15           85           565        -1480         -       -1480
4        173            56           229           36           36          157           417        - 260         _       - 260
5        216            85           301           47           41          213           184        +  29      + 506      + 535
6        240           123           363           61           44          258            93        + 165         -       + 165
7        257           162           119           77           49          293            62        + 231         _       + 231
8        273           168           441           82           50          309            31        + 278         -       + 278
9        282           173           455          110           51          294            11        + 283      + 286      + 569
10        287           177           464          120           52          292            11        + 281         -       + 281
U1        289           182           471          131           52          288            11        + 277         -       + 277
12        294           187           481          139           53          289            11        + 278         -       + 278
13        296           189           485          146           54          285            U         + 274         -       + 274
14        296           191           487          146           54          287            11        + 276         -       + 276
15        296           191           487          146           54          287            1l        + 276         -       + 276
16        296           191           487          146           54          287            11        + 276         -       + 276
17        296           191           487          146           54          287            U         + 276         -       + 276
18        296           191           487          146           54          .287           11        + 276         -       + 276
19        296           191           487          146           54           287           11        + 276         _          276
20        296           191           487          146           54          287            11        + 276         _       + 276
Internal rate of return to the economy 9 percent



._                                                                          t    n         REPUBLIC
--    /7.   of the
CONGO       TANZANIA
ANGOLA                    A
Chtipo        %A O                                                          ZAMBIA  _ MALA  I
)              *                                            SOUTH             RHODESIA 
AFR1CAETJ BOTSWAN4_./O
Chilumb                                      SO0U TH       SWAZILAND
AFRIC A('
\ \ t   2:hilumbf                       \8\             O~~~~~~~~~LESOTH
NON RNO
!~~0 N0                                                               /  
C,      ROJ A   Mzuzu   Nkh to     
ziMmbo 
ZAKE
MAIAWI
f   Kosungu                     * t ko;a Kot
Ka~~~~~~                              0~~~
)j  C  R   A  LX i  ,A
Jj Rx   O N                                                 SALIMA 
/   *   61  \    {           \     .._  -  /~~PROJECT              4
0     > 20     40      60      8 0  100         nARE                  AREAA
NOVLMOEP. 19 67                                                                                                TB - .R . ,tr
._   t:  < }> t~~~~~~~~oney                                ay'* 
_-     LILONGE. Dgu Rl       DdoG   oI                                            \                           <0
0~~~~~~~~ N,g,                              AZ        A                          Fr i. I
I'ain 7oads                     Terf                     gO2rdzl   
~ ^ ~ ~ 9Railways                                                    IMBLNYEri 
--Proposed Railway                            \Mh,owa9nle  
*    AirfieldsTo                          e       e -                       e >
---------   International Boundaries \%A 
Regional Boundaries Se
Lilongwe Drogram area                                              iromo
Shire Project Area. Y9
SHIRE 1% ) 8 j;\sonje
PROJECT  t   -
0      20      40      60       80     lOO       AREA           V      t
MILES                                 Z       er 
NOVEMIIEIR 1967                                                                                                  IBRD-2095R3






M A L A W I
LILONGWE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Main roads
- . ...-     .   International boundaries
-4+ -       Airfield
*          Permanent FMB Markets
A          Chitedze Research Station
A  Colby Agricultural School
min _        _ Boundary of Program Area                &l -  _    _   -,
Lombodzi
|                                                              N AAL/LULI
Nombumo                           FOREST
*o  0 ONomDum:              8          RESERVE
)                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Salimna
* oNsoru
o Mbobzi
To zambia           oKololo                                                                        LILONGW
-.                                          KAMAG'j't>; JOET       *K o mp i n 
X, 0 1 tR A Ft b k fv 41T'\tEik n
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ iO WS
JANUARY  1968                                                            I  BRD  -  2-96R2
-       J~~E 
0~ ~ ~~~Maiud    '                        m k2 
Sinyalo~L'A  AN4AA
A   -3                                                          ~    -  -
JANUARY ~ ~ ~~~~~~~LA     1  K96.pi                                                                     0   296R



