CONFIDENTIAL
Report No.75t1&AT.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
on
LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE I (CREDIT 113-MAI)
May 23, 1975
Operations Evaluation Department






PREFACE
Credit 113-MAI of February 1968 was closed in August 1972. This
paper reports on a performance audit of achievements under this credit
against the objectives on the basis of which it was approved, as described
in the Bank appraisal report dated January 3, 1968.
This performance audit is in part an outgrowth of previous research
work done on the Lilongwe Land Development Program (LLDP).     The program was
included among the case studies in the Bank's Africa Rural Development Study,
and a follow-up study has also been carried out for the Rural Development
Division of the Development Economics Department.
The complexity of the project and the existence of these exten-
sive studies have affected the scope of the present report. While all the
main features of the 1968 project were subjected to performance audit and
are touched on here, there is very little elaboration in this report on some
important aspects - such as institutional arrangements, training, trends in
use of new inputs - which are fully covered, along with others, in the
larger reports; while, on the other hand, quite disproportionate space is
given here to the LLDP's Evaluation Unit, not very much covered in the other
reports, and related questions.    While such units have been quite common
features of more recent IBRD/IDA-assisted rural development projects, the
LLDP one was among the earliest to be established.     Thus the report gives
essentially an overview of the 1968 project and a fuller assessment of the
performance of the Evaluation Unit.
The valuable assistance provided by the LLDP staff and the Malawian
authorities is gratefully acknowledged.
Currency Equivalent (Malawi Kwacha)
1966-71:   MK 1.00 = US$ 1.20
1972:     MK 1.00 = US$ 1.30






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE I (CREDIT 113-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Summary                                                             i
I.  Introduction                                                   1
II.  Project Implementation                                         3
Administration and Staffing                                 4
Costs and Accounts                                          5
Land Development                                            6
Land Reorganization and Registration                        7
Marketing and Storage Facilities                            8
Extension, Supply and Credit Services                       8
III.  Impact of the Program in Production Terms                       9
Yield Objectives                                           10
Acreage Objectives                                         13
Rate of Return Estimates                                   15
IV.  The LLDP Evaluation Unit                                      17
V.  Conclusions                                                   21
Annex 1: Description of the Project
Map:  Malawi - Lilongwe Land Development Program - Phasing of Road and
Conservation Works






SUNMARY
The Bank first became involved in the planning of the Lilongwe
Land Development Program (LLDP) in 1965.    A first IDA Credit, 113-MAI of
February 1968 ($ 6.0 million), was extended to finance 85% of total esti-
mated costs of a Phase I four-year project.     The major objectives of the
Project, and of the larger 13-year Program, were to increase agricultural
productivity in a large area of high potential in central Malawi and to
further the transition from a traditional to a market economy.     Justifica-
tion was based on rapidly growing population pressure on the land base and
the threat of food shortages.
The significance of the project for Malawi lay not only in the
stated objectives but also in the fact that LLDP was the first ID)A-funded
agricultural project to be located in the country.     The experience of
designing LLDP and putting together proposals in integrated project form
have helped to establish within the Malawi Government a planning competence
which has led to two further agricultural programs (Shire and Karonga)
established with IDA funding and other projects assisted by bilateral
lenders,as well as to two further phases of the Lilongwe Program; Ph-iase II
being supported by IDA Credit 244-MAI of May 1971 and Phase III by a further
IDA Credit approved by the Executive Directors in March 1975.
LLDP has evolved substantially in scope and objectives through
these various phases, and one characteristic of it has been rather strong
and flexible management, adapting to changing circumstances. In 1969
planning started for expanding the coverage of the full'Program from the
originally envisaged 500,000 acres to over 1 million acres, accounting for
about 10% of Malawi's rural population. Though not originally intended
as a model of a particular approach to rural development, LLDP has evolved
in objectives and has with the passage of time become a showpiece for
package-style integrated development; Mason and Asher, in their recent
volume on the Bank, "The World Bank Since Bretton Woods", treat LLDP at
some length as the prime example of one of the Bank's two principal strat-
egies  for rural development.   These changes make performance audit of
the Phase I project itself more difficult.
The project supported by Credit 113-MAI consisted of land
development for a first portion of the Program area, land demarcation,
construction of marketing and storage facilities, and provision of exten-
sion services, credit and inputs (mainly fertilizer and improved seed)
for farmers of the project area. Special conditions to the IDA Credit em-
phasized the importance of adequate program management and staffing and
called for creation of a permanent Evaluation Unit at Program headquarters.
Planned land development works - mainly roads, drains and
boreholes - were completed early, in September 1971, and in significantly
greater quantity than forecast, to service 280,000 acres rather than the
planned 163,000 acres, as a result of use of capital-intensive construc-
tion methods under efficient, expatriate management. Construction of markets
was also completed on schedule, a training center was built, and a large



- ii -
number of staff houses were constructed.     The accelerated pace of devel-
opment did not apply however to other elements of the project, with the
result that faster-than-expected expansion in physical terms led to some
loss of coordination with other components.    The impact was particularly
felt in those project sections - credit and extension, and training - where
the quality or number of staff were the most important constraints to a
better performance.    Throughout Phase I it proved difficult to achieve
desired staffing levels.    Expatriates, expected to fill management posi-
tions at first, could not be attracted -in adequate numbers due to unsatis-
factory Government contracting procedures and low salaries, and the few
qualified Malawians were discouraged by Civil Service procedures as well
as low salaries.   As a result, many high- and middle-level positions were
left vacant for extended periods of time, and a large number of lower-
level posts originally intended for expatriates had to be filled by Mala-
wians who had little practical experience.     The ratio of extension workers
to farmers was greatly increased over the average level in the country
but did not reach the planned intensity, over the expanded area developed.
In the area of credit and distribution of farm inputs staff numbers were
generally as planned, but the Farmers' Marketing Board (FMB), a semi-
autonomous national agency meant to assume responsibility for credit and
inputs, partially failed to perform, forcing management to internalize
these functions within the Project and thereby seriously overburdening
existing staff.
Actual costs are not fully comparable with estimated, due to
incompatibilities between the Project's accounting system and Government
and IDA reporting categories.   However it appears that total costs of the
works and activities described above were less than expected - due principally
to the staff shortfall and to economies in project works. By means of
substantial advance procurement for Phase II the IDA Credit was brought
to full disbursement in August 1972, four months ahead of original schedule,
and total Program expenditures over the period were close to the origi-
nally estimated $7 million.
As regards progress towards the major original objective of
Phase I of LLDP, to increase maize and groundnut productivity through
higher yields and expanded acreage, the data available, for the first five
years of the Program through 1973/74, do not show broad impact so far, but
this may be partly a result of poor weather in particular years, especially
1972/73.   Among the most important parameters, maize yields have shown no
sustained increase and groundnut yields declined from 1969 through 1972,
recovering somewhat in 1973 but remaining much below appraisal expectations.
The reasons for the poor groundnut performance are not clear but it appears
generally to be considered that, even though prices to the farmer rose more
for groundnuts than for maize between 1969 and 1972, nonetheless farmers
concentrated their main attention on maize, a food staple with yields
that could be increased more easily than in the case of groundnuts. Original
targets for yields are still being maintained, and it is hoped that factors
such as the further increase in producer price for groundnuts in 1973, the
increased extejlsion effort with women who, with children, do most of
,he work on this labor-intensive crop, and development of a more disease-
resistant variety will reverse the past trend.



- iii -
It is not possible to make a reasonable reassessment at this
stage of the economic return to the project investment. This was origi-
nally estimated at 9% for the project, if not extended beyond 1972, and 13%
for the whole 13-year program.   Offsetting the apparent yield shortfall
are export prices for groundnuts and maize substantially above projected
levels; and among nonfarm inputs, which have anyway been used in rather
lesser quantity than expected, only fertilizer appears to have risen
substantially more in price than the crops produced.     On the other hand
there is some evidence of yields growing better in areas outside the
Program area without benefit of direct Program assistance. More generally,
there is a problem of considerable uncertainty about both baseline and
present data, particularly acute for the composite estimates crucial for
cost-benefit analysis such as gross production, the product of total cropped
acreage, proportion devoted to the particular crop, and average yield for
that crop, each with its own degree of uncertainty.
The number of families basically affected by the Programn seems
to have expanded commensurately with the increase in area developed, and
the credit program has been extended to reach substantially more farmers
than originally planned.    Some of the most important effects of LLDP may
be resulting from fundamental changes which necessarily take time to accom-
plish and to affect behavior - for instance registration of family land
holdings, which proceeded cautiously, and the involvement of large numbers
of farmers in the Program's elaborate committee structure.     An increasing
amount and variety of self-help activities are becoming visible in the
area. Staff training - both formal and on-the-job - has made a major con-
tribution towards the creation of a large nucleus of experienced Malawian
agriculturalists and low- to middle-level administrators. The Program
also seems to have had a useful impact in helping to make certain Govern-
ment procedures more flexible, particularly in procurement, expenditure
authorization, and civil service regulations.
The LLDP Evaluation Unit has carried out a large amount of survey
work, produced a sizeable number of useful reports and played a useful role
in support of Program management, but it has suffered from a late start,
serious staffing problem at the supervisory level for extended periods, some
diversion from its main evaluation role, and some tendency for data` collec-
tion to get ahead of analysis of data already collected. While there were
factors that made it imperative to start the Program early, the lag between
project initiation and full operation of the monitoring unit encompassed
most of the four-year project implementation period, precluding improvements
to the Program as a result of the unit's work in the course of execution
of Phase I or between PhaseI and II.    Because of inadequacies in the Pro-
ject's accounting system, the Evaluation Unit had to perform cost analysis
work which was outside its proper sphere of operations.    The farm manage-
ment data, on collection of which most of the funds originally allccated
for evaluation were spent, have not been analyzed - although they might help
to explain phenomena such as the decline in groundnut yields - and the
collection effort was abandoned because of the small scope that farmers
in the project area were felt to have for changing cropping patterns and im-
proving productivity through reorganization of resources. There appears to
be a need to do evaluation work on the use of credit and the effectiveness
of extension work.



- iv -
While the Bank made a major contributia to the preparation of
this project and showed imagination and flexibility in undertaking to
finance it, it is unfortunate, considering the project's complexity, that,
presumably due to staff constraints, no two supervision missions contained
the same personnel and supervision was in general less systematic and
thorough than would probably have been useful and than project management
would apparently have desired; supervision missions were also felt to
lack powers, so that questions only got resolved long afterwards, from
Washington. The Bank might have become more deeply involved as regards
resolution of the serious staffing and accounting problems and promotion
of earlier establishment of the Evaluation Unit.
As regards Program design, it appears that the relatively
capital-intensive construction techniques introduced, although essential
for some works, efficiently applied and useful for training of operators,
should have had a somewhat reduced scope and application, leaving more
of the works - such as feeder roads and some conservation works - to slower
labor-intensive self-help effort, with useful advantages in terms of direct
income-distribution effect, more rapid development of self-help experience
and training in normal maintenance. More labor-intensive methods should
at least have been tested on a pilot basis.
Finally, the case suggests some important lessons about the
kind of infonmation that should be sought, presented and targetted about
such a rainfed agricultural development project. Even with considerable
expenditure on a built-in monitoring unit, strong field supervision and
good techniques, the data that can be produced on actual progress is subject
to a considerable range of uncertainty, which needs to be explicitly recog-
nized; it is especially serious for the major composite parameters that
are important in project appraisal.    Overemphasis on the apparent yield
shortfall which results from comparing original single-valued projections
with estimated actual averages as discussed above seems to have been a
factor, in 1971/72, in causing temporary abandonment of useful experiments
in group credit and somewhat excessive expansion of individual credit in
that year. More explicit attention could also usefully have been given
to the weather assumptions underlying target values, perheps leading to
target-ranges, spanning good and bad climatic conditions. Analysis of
the statistical data available from Lilongwe also suggests that yield
distributions are sufficiently skewed that they need to be given careful
attention in any analysis of the distributive impact of such a project.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE I (CREDIT 113-MAI)
I. Introduction
Bank involvement with the Lilongwe Land Development Program
(LLDP) began during 1965 when the Government, emphasizing the need for
development in the country's central regiont requested planning assistance
from the Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa (PMEA).    The planning,
largely completed in 1966, encompassed an area of 500,000 acres in the
Lilongwe Plain.   PMEA, and subsequently the newly established Agricultural
Development Service (ADS), was to prepare the development program in a
manner suitable for Bank project financing.    The resultant rainfed land
and agricultural development plan was first presented to the Bank in
November 1966.
The area to be included in LLDP was about a third of Lilongwe
District (see map).    The rural population was estimated to number some
190,000 with a forecast growth rate of 3% per annum, and an existing density
of about 250 persons per square mile, almost twice the national average.
The number of holdings was put at 38,000, with an average of six arable
acres each. Production methods for food crops were largely traditional,
but tobacco growers utilized substantial quantities of nonfarm inputs.
Though physically reasonably homogenous, the proposed project area supported
holdings of widely varying size and productivity.    Under customary rights
of usufruct, each village controlled a given land area and a matrilineal
succession to cultivating rights prevailed, though the first signs of
erosion of this system had appeared.    Marketed surpluses of crops had
declined during the Federation period to the mid-1960s, but were beginning
to show signs of recovery.
While the human and agricultural potential of the Lilongwe Plai-n
had already been demonstrated by smallholders farming without outside assis-
tance and was considered to be among the highest in Malawi, the area faced,
in the view of local officials, two principal problems, both stemmFing from
the same source - rapid and uncontrolled population growth, which made it
imperative to preserve and enhance this potential. The first probllem was
that high concentrations of population in certain locales were causing
rapid deterioration of the natural vegetation cover, with the threlat of
serious erosion.   The second problem was that population growth was in-
creasing the pressure on the land base and reducing holding and plpt sizes,
thereby forcing farmers back toward a subsistence position.
Given the background of the program area, the major plan objec-
tive (as originally conceived) was to raise agricultural productivity, by
increasing yields and making more effective use of all arable land, for the
region's major crops -- maize, groundnuts and tobacco -- and to accelerate
the transition from a subsistence to a market economy. Targets were set
for a twelve-year period and total cost was estimated at US$ 16.25 million



-2-
equivalent.   The program, originally submitted in its entirety for single
project financing, suffered little alteration in content prior to the
Credit Agreement. The Bank's major objection to the proposal was the ex-
tended implementation period, for which it recommended phasing.    Lesser
objections were raised with regard to the lack of detailed data in support
of forecast production targets, and the Bank requested further information
based on the outcome of a UK-financed pilot project begun near Lilongwe
in 1965.   For other supportive activities, notably land registration and
credit services, the Bank requested clear delineation of implementation
procedures.   A final important recommendation of the Bank was the crea-
tion of a new administrative body within the Department of Agriculture,
the Agricultural Development Branch, to assume responsibility for all
major agricultural development schemes undertaken by the Government. The
Lilongwe Program was to be administered by this new body.
Project appraisal took place during May 1967 and the resultant
development Program and Phase I Project are described below.
The Program, then expected to be implemented over a 13-year
period, in three phases, consisted in technical assistance in conjunction
with simple infrastructural and working capital investments.    The targets
of the LLDP were:
1. Completion of detailed land use plans, provision of crop
extraction roads, construction of soil conservation works, water
supply facilities and markets for 500,000 acres.
2. Development of 60,000 acres that were idle and improved
use of 40,000 acres lying fallow.
3. Provision of credit and land registration services.
4. A tenfold increase in the marketable surplus of maize; a
doubling of groundnut production; and a constant production of
tobacco, but decreasing by half the area of cultivation.
The estimated cost of the 13-year program, as projected in the Phase I
appraisal, is shown below:
US$ million equiv.
Buildings, Equipment, Machinery             4.397
Staff and other Recurrent Costs             9.847
Farm Inputs                                 6.967
21.211
The Phase I Project, for which IDA financing was proposed,
consisted of six parts, detailed in Annex I:
a) Land Development (soil conservation and drainage works,
roads and boreholes) for 163,000 acres;



-3-
b) Land Reorganization and Registration (establishment of Land
Survey and Land Registry Offices in Lilongwe, and aerial topographic
and cadastral surveys);
c) Marketing and Storage Facilities (11 markets and an 8,500
ton crop storage facility);
d) Extension, Supply and Credit Services;
e) Provision of Program Management, Administrative Services
and Staff Management, including an element for in-service training;
and
f) the review and evaluation of progress achieved under the
Project and the preparation of detailed plans for subsequent phases
of the Program.
For implementation purposes, the area was divided into development units
of about 20,000 acres each. Land development, construction of storage and
marketing facilities and provision of extension, credit and land reorgani-
zation services were organized around these units.   The project was to
be implemented over a four-year period at an estimated cost of US$ 7 million
equivalent, of which half were for capital costs, 44% for recurrent expendi-
tures, and the remainder for farm inputs, including fertilizer and
implements.
Credit negotiations took place in November 1967. The Agreement
was signed on February 5, 1968. The Credit, 113-MAI, in the amount of
US$ 6.0 million, was to cover 100% of foreign exchange costs of Phase I
of the Lilongwe Program and, given Malawi's financial constraints, alpprox-
imately 86% of total project costs.   The project was to be implemented
betweeen 1968 and 1972, with the closing date set at December 31, 1972.
Special credit conditions and covenants included Bank approval
of: appointments to the positions of Program Manager, Deputy and
Assistant; procedures for on-lending to the Farmers' Marketing Board
(FMB), a semi-autonomous agency assigned by statute to purchase all
marketable produce grown on smallholdings and, under the project, responsible
for implementing all marketing and credit services, including supply and
distribution of inputs.   A final covenant called for independent annual
auditing of project and FMB accounts.
Supplementary letters covered procurement, to be carried out
through international competitive bidding for larger items; administration
of the credit scheme; staffing needs; and establishment of three special
units responsible for training, accounts and evaluation. A single condi-
tion for Credit effectiveness called for agreement on the amount of credit
proceeds to be on-lent to the FMB.
II. Project Implementation
Project implementation was generally expeditious and flexible.
The Credit became effective on March 15, 1968 and, although disbursements



-4-
lagged initially because of procedural problems connected mainly with the
novelty of this type of project, the Credit was finally closed, fully dis-
bursed, in August 1972, four months ahead of original schedule. Land
development works, covering nearly 280,000 acres compared with the origi-
nally planned 163,000 acres, were completed ahead of schedule, by September
1971. Other project components, however, did not follow the accelerated
pace of development so that for a certain period items were out of phase
with one another. Largely the difficulties encountered stemmed from per-
sistent problems in recruiting and retaining qualified staff. Delays were
experienced primarily in the extension services and in training and evalua-
tion.   Major changes made during implementation included the hiring of
Malawians instead of expatriates for certain field positions, alteration
in construction specifications for markets, deletion of construction of a
project headquarters, and inclusion of the first steps on a ranch for
producing feeder stock.
A major change in the Project's planning horizon occurred in
1969 when preliminary docu.ents for Phase II proposed expanding the Program
area from the originally envisaged 500,000 acres to over one million acres,
a proposal that was eventually accepted by the Bank. IDA Credit 244-MAI,
in the amount of $7.25 million, was signed in May 1971, in support of a
Phase II Project, which was intended to extend land development and program
activities over a further 240,000 acres; this target has again been ex-
ceeded, and it was expected that by about mid-1975 a total of about 660,000
acres will have been developed under Phases I and II combined. A further IDA
Credit, in the amount of $8.5 million, was approved by the Executive Directors
in March 1975, to assist execution of a Phase III Project extending program
coverage to a further 210,000 acres. Additional to these smallholder areas
directly developed by the Program are the 160,000-acre Dzalanyama Ranch and
other smaller areas, bringing aggregate area involved to nearly 1.2 million
acres, containing over 400,000 people or nearly 10% of the country's rural
population.
Administration and Staffing
As it emerged from the Bank's original appraisal, LLDP was to be
supervised by the Agricultural Development Branch (ADB) of the Department
of Agriculture through the Chief Agricultural Development Officer (CADO).
This new oranch was established to supervise all major development schemes,
to coordinate procurement and reimbursement of expenditure, and to lay down
priorities for recruitment, building, etc.     The ADB, which was viewed
by management as an effort to restrict project autonomy, was funded through
the Credit for LLDP. Originally the ADB was to consist solely of the CADO
and an assistant, but the Branch aggravated LLDP staffing problems in that
it was staffed by building in posts which had been intended as Project
posts. Altogether five senior posts, including finance, credit, adminis-
tration and personnel officers, were transferred from the Project to ADB
and, while paid by the Project,failed to perform adequately their functional
duties in respect of LLDP.    The ADB was ultimately judged a failure and
was disbanded before Phase I ended.
Responsibility for the project has therefore been mainly in the
hands of the Program Manager, assisted by a divisional structure assigning



responsibility for the various major functions to be carried out and by an
elaborate structure of committees, involving the farmers themselves and
with Village Planning Committees at the base of the pyramid. Management
has been largely in the hands of expatriate staff, mainly on short-term
contracts. It has adapted flexibly to the needs of the situation, taking
over at various times, as necessary, functions that should have been ful-
filled by other agencies cut temporarily could not be, and developing and
elaborating the LLDP concept.
Senior staffing has been a problem throughout the Program, but
particularly during Phase I execution. Difficulties in hiring expatriates
resulted from insufficiently attractive Government contract terms, low
salaries and a lack of "topping up" arrangements. Delays in the Govern-
ment's recruiting procedure were also common, and key posts were left
vacant for up to a year or more, although by 1972 all high-level positions
were filled.
Recruiting was equally difficult in the case of qualified Mala-
wians due to Civil Service procedures, higher salaries in the private sec-
tor and a real shortage of qualified personnel - particularly as the various
other major agricultural development projects got under way in the country.
During Phase I only one of the four management trainee positions was
filled, and the man so trained had to be transferred before long to another
project.
Even the more junior extension staff could not initially be
recruited in the numbers desired, partly due to the Government recruitment
policies mentioned above, and partly due to resistance to hiring workers
who had not graduated from one of the region's two agricultural schools.
At the Bank's suggestion it was agreed that non-graduates with the relevant
basic skills could be trained to carry out extension work at the program's
training center, operating since 1969. The shortage of extension workers
has been largely overcome, in significant part thanks to the major training
efforts undertaken under the Program.
Costs and Accounts
Actual total project costs coincided almost exactly with the esti-
mated $7 million, but cost composition was somewhat different due to savings
in some categories and forward spending in others. Savings arose largely
from difficulties impeding the hiring of staff, both expatriate and Malawian,
from parts of the land development scheme, and from the use of structures
less expensive than planned for markets and some housing. With Bank approval,
project savings were reallocated, largely to construction of storage units
for farm inputs, forward buying of inputs for the credit program; and to
initiating a livestock ranch, originally to have begun under Phase II.
A detailed cost breakdown cannot be obtained from the published
figures. Three different and mutually incompatible accounting systems
have been applied to the LLDP cost data. Project management had its own
accounting system which served a cost control function but the categories
of which did not correspond to the vote subheadings in Government accounts



-6-
nor to the IDA reporting categories.    Thus the consolidation of project
accounts and the allocation of costs to IDA headings obscured the actual
pattern of expenditure because certain "activity" expenditure could fall
under a number of headings.    Examples include "Housing" under Category 1
expenditure (100% reimbursable), when total housing expenditure was
actually divided among this item and five other items in Category 2 (75%
reimbursable) and commodities like cement, which were included in almost
every sub-item in each category. The Government did not recognize project
accounts, and insistence upon allocating costs to often inappropriate
IDA disbursement categories and classifications distorted the true pattern
of expenditure.
An additional element that complicated further the available
cost data from Phase I was the Bank's insistence upon a strict separation
between the accounts for Phase I and the following phase.     Considerable
savings were realized during implementation of Phase I (in the neighbor-
hood of $2.0 million), but these could not be carried forward into the
next phase and so large amounts of funds had to be committed in a short
time in the form of forward buying for Phase II.    These advance purchases
in large measure explain the apparent "over-expenditure" in certain budget
categories in the Phase I accounts ultimately accepted by the Bank. The
principal items purchased in advance were vehicles, machinery and equip-
ment, farm inputs and cement. Just as the costs of Phase I are over-
stated 'oy this technique of transferring available funds forward, the
costs of Phase II will similarly be understated.
The lack of reliable accounts and adequate accounting procedures
has been a serious problem since the beginning of the Program and explains
why it is not possible to obtain a clear picture of costs and expenditures
and hence evaluate the cost-effectiveness of various Program activities.
To some degree these inadequacies arise because of the use of incompatible
accounting systems and Government's insistence on an audit format that did
not permit cost accounting by the only trained personnel available to
do it. Thus the independent audits, as eventually carried out (audited
accounts for 1968/69 and 1969/70 were not submitted to the Bank until late
in 1970, after the matter had been drawn to the Auditor-General's attention)
were still of limited use as a management tool.    Program management considered
it impracticable to introduce cost accounting given the lack of trained per-
sonnel, but more use might have been made of the Program's training section to
teach staff rudimentary accounting and cost-benefit techniques. PMEA has con-
sistently been critical of the quality of LLDP accounts but has seldom urged
that either the Government or the Program train the required staff. Only in
1974 was action taken when the Bank seconded a staff member to help improve
accounting procedures and systems for all the IDA-funded agricultural projects
in Malawi. In retrospect, it seems that the IDA-sponsored accounting system
was too sophisticated in light of the staff constraints and the experimental
nature oi the Program.
Land Development
Capital-intensive land development works, managed by expatriate
staff, were carried out very efficiently. As shown below, road-building



-7-
and borehole drilling exceeded targets in quantity and intensity; construc-
tion of drainage works was ahead of schedule in total miles completed, but
intensity was below planned, as a result of a decision to alter the stand-
ards to allow for longer terraces, with a higher run-off; the original
1.5' terraces had shown early signs of erosion. More efficient use was
made of heavy machinery by separating road building and conservation
works and carrying out the one during the dry season and the other in the
rainy season. It also proved possible to make dual use of many of the
stormdrains constructed, since the earth excavated was compacted and
formed a simple but satisfactory route of access to many villages. Total
acreage developed, at nearly 280,000, was 70% greater than targeted. The
quality of work was satisfactory, with the exception of boreholes, where ini-
tial results showed the need for concrete surrounds to prevent contamination.
It was agreed that the surrounds be built, but contruction proceeded slowly
until 1971-72.   Estimated and actual land development works were as
follows:
Appraisal                  Actual
Amount/                   Amount/
Amount    1,000 acres      Amount   1,000 acres
Roads:                      165 miles   1.0 miles     642 miles   2.3 miles
Stormdrains:              2,038 miles.L112.5 miles  2,271 miles  8.2 miles
Boreholes:                  125          .7           232          .8
Total Acres Developed: 163,000          --        276,800         --
1/ Derived from the Phase I Appraisal Report, Annex 1, p. 4. The average
length of a drain was to be one mile and the area protected by each
drain would be 80 acres.
A major departure from the original project design was the in-
clusion, under the Land Development Division, of a section responsible for
building. It had been planned to have building work done under contract
or under force account by the Ministry of Works, but neither system proved
reliable enough to ensure coordination of construction with other eIlements
and both were far more expensive than envisaged. With Bank approval,
management internalized the building function within the project and estab-
lished a construction and bridges section.
Both land development and construction activities within the
project have contributed significantly to developing skills that are in
short supply in Malawi. These include surveying, heavy machinery halndling,
building and general mechanical and-.engineering capability.
Land Reorganization and Registration
Implementation of this item was slower than expected mainly as
a result of the inability of the Land Survey Office to attract qualified



- 8 -
staff and the need to proceed cautiously with changes afEecting land tenure
arrangements.   The aerial topographic surveys were completed only by 1971,
and the 1:5,000 scale maps, necessary for demarcation and subsequent regis-
tration of holdings, were not completed until early 1972, after a qualified
photogrammetrist had finally been retained. Some 13,600 acres were regis-
tered to both individuals and family groups during 1972, and a much larger
area had been demarcated in preparation for registration. About 120,000
acres were registered, or about to be registered, by the end of 1973. The
Bank considered that registration was proceeding too slowly in view of the
urgency of stabilizing holdings to prevent further subdivision, but Project
management wisely rejected setting explicit annual targets for what was a
novel, politically sensitive and -- to the local people -- potentially
threatening program. Because of the necessity to explain the concept of
land registration thoroughly to all those involved, this aspect of the
program has proceeded slowly and at the same time has been very demanding
in terms of staff time required.
Marketing and Storage Facilities
Prior to project implementation, 17 temporary markets were
operating in the Lilongwe area. In the Phase I project, 11 were to have
been relocated and constructed on a permanent basis. The markets were
to serve as centers for extension and credit services and distribution
of farm inputs in addition to providing regular marketing services. The
first two markets constructed by FMB (later called ADMARC) were considered
by project management to be overly elaborate and too expensive, and minor
delays in construction resulted from the change in specifications to
cheaper prefabricated buildings, though substantial savings were realized
through the change. Construction began in 1970, and all planned market
and storage facilities were completed by 1972.
Extension, Supply and Credit Services
Extension services were to focus on use of improved seed,
fertilizer and improved cultivation methods.    Introduction of the new
techniques was expected to require high staff intensity, and for the first
two years one extension worker was to be provided for each 200 families,
some 6 or 7 times the average extension intensity in the country at the time.
New, imported inputs, especially fertilizer, were to have been purchased
by the program and distributed to the farmers on credit. Repayment would
be made in cash, or in kind, at an interest rate of 10%.
Although extension intensity was increased greatly in the area,
the desired ratio of extension staff to farmers was not attained due to
the difficulty encountered in recruiting staff and to the more rapid than
planned expansion of the program area. Moreover, many of the extension
workers were Malawians who lacked practical experience, instead of expa-
triates, as originally planned. Thus, the quality of the service was also
lower than expected.    Extension staff have been much more successful
in some areas -- e.g. in achieving almost universal adoption of contour
planting and promoting the use of new inputs -- than in others -- e.g.
.improving overall crop husbandry or convincing farmers to adopt improved
on-farm storage.



- 9 -
FMB was meant to be in charge of supplying credit and inputs
to farmers but failed to perform this function during the 1968/69 season,
forcing management to respond quickly and incorporate a credit aird input-
supply system within the project. Though there had previously been a
Government-run credit program in the area, it supplied predominantly
capital inputs and reached only a tiny fraction of the farmers. In con-
trast, the LLDP credit scheme emphasized seasonal inputs and was broader
in scope, though less than one-fifth of eligible farmers received credit
in the first two seasons due to the rigid application of creditworthiness
criteria.   Largely at the Bank's insistence, the credit program was drama-
tically expanded in 1970/71, when it reached over 4,000 farmers, and
again the following year, attaining 20,000 farmers, in order to stimulate
a more rapid adoption of improved inputs. This useful expansion was
achieved mainly by relaxing the creditworthiness criteria, although demand
also increased because farmers became more aware of the benefits of the
program, but it carried a cost in the form of higher default rates and
greater demands on staff time to enforce repayment.     With major effort
recovery had been brought by the end of 1973 to about 95% of 197L/72
credits and 88% of 1972/73 credits. A program to provide medium-term
credit was also initiated and has consistently realized a 100% repayment
rate.
III. Impact of the Program in Production Terms
The initial overall objective of the Lilongwe program was to
increase agricultural productivity on a scale large enough to have a
significant impact at the national level. The appraisal report cited two
factors -- rapid population growth and the imminent threat of localized
food shortages -- as creating a need to intensify effort to enhance agri-
cultural productivity, with particular stress on better yields oE food
crops. Due to the restricted area of agriculturally suitable land, the
report viewed as limited the potential of increasing production through
an expansion of acreage. Furthermore, the report noted that soiL conser-
vation would be necessary in many areas just to maintain the existing level
of output. Special emphasis was given to the need to raise the yields of
maize and groundnuts, two of the most important food crops and crops
which, the report declared, are most economically grown, in MalawL on the
Central Plateau near Lilongwe. Citing selected research.findings and
experience in a pilot program, which had been underway'in the region
since 1965, it was further concluded that practical means existed for
achieving such yield increases.
In the words of the appraisal report, then, "the aim of the
Lilongwe Development Program is to raise agricultural production, by
increasing yields and ensuring the effective use of all" suitable land,
and by furthering the transition from a subsistence to a market economy".
Virtually all other benefits ascribed to the program -- increases in
income, export surpluses, more government revenues, etc. -- were to be
generated by the direct and indirect effects of increased yields, partic-
ularly of maize and groundnuts. Thus, although the scope of the program
has been expanded in Phases II and III, yields are the key variable in
determining the impact of Phase I of the LLDP in strict appraisa'L terms.
The analysis that follows has to be interpreted in the proper
context. In this audit we have been able to analyse only four or at most



- 10 -
five years of the evolution of a program that is expected to last 13 years.
Four years is a short period, particularly for agriculturaliprojects in rain-
fed areas.
Yield Objectives
The appraisal report's baseline (necessarily quite rough) and
target yields, together with data on acreage, production and marketable
surplus, are summarized below:
Marketable
Acreage      Yield        Production     Surplus1/
Crops          (000's)     (lb/ac)         (tons)        (tons)
Before Development
Maize             133         1,100        73,150         10,000
Groundnuts         38           500        9,500           7,000
Tobacco           47            200        4,700           4,700
After Development
Maize             203         2,000      203,000          98,000
Groundnuts         66           650       21,000          17,000
Tobacco            23.5         400        4,700           4,700
1/ After allowing for on-farm consumption, seed retained and storage
losses. In the case of maize the rate of storage loss was assumed
to decrease slightly as a result of the program.
Data appear to have been available which indicated the technical
feasibility of meeting Lhe target yield for maize. The mean yield for
fertilized synthetic maize in seven years of research station trials in
the region was 6,800 lb/ac.    Citing 51 trials on farmers' land in Lilongwe
District, it was observed that the growers obtained an average yield of
3,366 lb/ac (48% of the research station yield in the same year). Thus,
it was assumed that in the future the best farmers should be able to
attain 40% of the research yield. Based on experience in the pilot project
area, it was also noted that yields could be increased 45% (to 1,600 lb/ac)
simply by switching to synthetic maize and planting early, weeding thoroughly
and spacing properly but without using fertilizer.
The entire yield increase of 30% for groundnuts was to stem from
improved cultivation practices alone, though no research or trial data were
cited to support this increase.    Groundnuts were said to respond partic-
ularly well to close spacing, which reduces the incidence of rosette, as
well as to timely planting and careful weeding. While no new inputs were
proposed, attention was drawn to the fact that there are important inter-
action effects between groundnuts' need for micronutrients -- especially
sulphur -- and the residues left in the soil by certain types of fertilizer
used on maize and tobacco.
The doubling of tobacco yields was to result from the use of
balanced applications of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer and more careful



cultivation, particularly tbe proper techniques for raising tobacco seedlings
in nurseries before transplanting them into the fields.
The appraisal report specifies only baseline and target yields
and does not trace out in detail the growth path that yields must follow
to reach the target level.   Only certain assumptions are made explicit.
For example, it is assumed that 10% of all growers will refuse to adopt
any changes, but that five years' exposure to intensive extension campaigns
will induce 90% of farmers to use improved seed and 80% to improve their
cultivation methods.    The expansion of fertilizer use is projected to go
rather slowly and only 45% of the maize crop is expected to receive ferti-
lizer in the twelfth year.    The only possible method of estimating annual
yield targets, therefore, is to use the figures for before- and after-
development set out above to derive implicit growth rates. The figures
imply the following annual compound growth rates over 13 seasons:
Percent
Maize        --  Acreage                        3.3
Yields                         4.7
Production                     8.2
Marketable surplus            19.0
Groundnuts  --  Acreage                        4.3
Yields                         2.0
Production                     6.3
Marketable surplus             7.1
Tobacco     -- Acreage                        -5.5
Yields                         5.5
Production                     0.0
Marketable surplus             0.0
In order to get some indication of how the program is going,
compared with expectations, these compound growth rates have been used to
estimate annual yield "targets" for maize and groundnuts"1, for comparison
with "actual" reults as derived from the Lilongwe Evaluation Unit's
annual surveys.-     Table 1 gives the figures.   From an inauspicious begin-
ning in 1969/70 (an exceptionally bad season for this crop), maize yields in-
creased the following year to 90% of the "target" figure and increased again
in 1971/72 to 97% of the calculated "target" figure for that year. 1972/73
was exceptionally dry and 1973174 exceptionally wet;     results were
1/ Aside from stating what the yield targets are for tobacco, there is little
more that can be said about yields for this crop. The LLDP Evaluation
Unit, despite repeated efforts, has been unable to overcome serious
methodological problems that stand in the way of devising a satisfactory
technique of measuring yields of cured leaf per acre.
2/ See below for discussion of the confidence limits of these figures.



- 12 -
disappointing in both. For the five years for which estimated actual yields
are available, then, the mean yield achieved is 85% of "target". The picture
Table 1
Lilongwe District. Projected and Actual Yields
for Maize and Groundnuts
Maize Yield (lb/ac)11        Groundnut Yield (lb/a_
Year     Season      Projected        Actual-       Projected       Actual-
(1)   1966/672/       1,100            __             500            __
(2)   1967/68         1,152            --              510           --
(3)   1968/69         1,206            --              520           --
(A/P)                          (A/P)
(4)   1969/70         1,263        1,028 (81%)        531         533 (104%)
(5)   1970/71         1,322        1,196 (90%)        541         519 (96%)
(6)   1971/72         1,384        1,343 (97%)         552        483 (88%)
(7)   1972/73         1,449        1,161 (80%)         563        241 (43%)
(8)   1973/74         1,517        1,172 (77%)3/       574        403 (70%)3/
(14)   1979/80         1,998            --              647
1/ Mean Yield for each evaluation area (EVa) weighted by the number of
observations. The EVa's used for each year are as follows: 1969/70 -
1-6;  1970/71- 1-5, 7, 8;     1971/72 - 1-4, 6, 7;   1972/73 - 1-4, 6-8;
and 1973/74 - maize 1-6; groundnuts 1-4, 6-8.
2/ Assumed to be the base year. The appraisal report does not spell out how
the base yields used were derived nor to what seasons they applied.
3/ Latest LLDP estimates. Groundnut yield is comparable with previous sea-
sons, but maize yield is derived from a somewhat different and slightly
smaller area than in previous seasons.
Source: LLDP Reports, Nos. 8 and 11, and data supplied by the LLDP Evalua-
tion Section.
is similar for groundnuts,with calculated mean yield over the five seasons
averaging 80% of "target", but, even before the difficult climatic conditions
of 1972/73, yields showed the reverse pattern of that in maize -- a gradual
decline, both absolutely and relative to "targets". The reasons for this



- 13 -
disappointing trend are not clear. The average price received by the
farmer for groundnuts rose significantly more between 1969 and 1972 than
for maize - 26% against 8%.    It appears to be generally assumed that
farmers have nonetheless given higher priority to maize, because yields
can be increased more easily and because it is one of the main staples.
Secondary factors may be disease problems with groundnuts and the fact
that the Program had difficulty in the early years in developing agricul-
tural training for women - who are particularly important, along with
children, in the much more labor-intensive groundnut crop.     There is no
basis to evaluate the relative importance of these factors. It is hoped
that the sharp increase decreed in 1973 in the farmer price fcor groundnuts
may serve to increase interest in that crop, and the same ultimate yield
targets for both maize and groundnuts are still being maintained.
Acreage Objectives
Though the potential for increasing production through expansion
of acreage was considered limited the appraisal report contained various
explicit assumptions regarding changes in cropping patterns and total
acreage cultivated.    These changes are shown in Table 2.   The post-
development objectives given in the table assume only one phase for the
program and therefore depict changes anticipated as a result of only
four years of intensive development effort, succeeded by a longer
follow-up period.



- 14 -
Table 2
Lilongwe Program. Anticipated Changes in Land Use
During Phase I
Pre-development    Post-development      Actualll
(c. 1966-68)       (c.1979/80)       (c. 1969-71)
1. Total Area (000 acres)
Non-arable                    150                150             1492/
Arable but idle                80                  0             1072/
Roads, drains, etc.             0                 20              -
Existing farm land           270                330              2652/
Total area            500                500              521
2. Cropping (000 acres)
Fallow                        40                   0               5
Maize                         133                203              151
Groundnuts                     38                 66              41
Tobacco                       47                 23               18
Other                          12                 38               16
Total cropped area        230                330              226
3. Population
Farm families             38,000             53,560           40,626
Cropped land, acres
per farm family             6.1                6.2              5.6
1/ Figures under "Total area" are based upon random transects across serial
photographs taken in 1966-67. Figures under "Cropping" are derived from
the mean area planted to different crops during the 1969/70 and 1970/71
seasons.
2/ Of the total area, 44% is cultivated. Of the area uncultivated, 51% is
non-arable and 49% is potentially arable. Of the potentially arable land,
25% has been previously cultivated and is included here as "Existing farm-
land" while the remaining 75% is included as "Arable but idle."
Source: From appraisal report, Annex 1, Table 2. Figures representing
the actual situation are derived from the proposals for Phase
III of the Program and data supplied by the LLDP Extension
Section.
The appraisal report indicates that through the net addition of
9'0,000 acres of land formerly idle, existing farmland was to increase by
22% to 330,000 acres. Maize acreage was to expand by 53% to 203,000



- 15 -
acres, groundniut acreage was to increase by 74% to 66,000 acres, and tobacco
acreage was to be cut in half. The acreage of other crops was anticipated
to triple.  The combined effect of these various changes was to be an
increase in cropped area of 100,000 acres, or about 45% more than the pre-
development acreage. The newly cropped land was to come from the complete
elimination of fallow land, the cultivation of 60,000 acres of arable
land previously idle, and the reduction in acreage planted to tobacco;    and
the area cropped per family was to increase slightly despite growing
population pressure on the total land area.    The appraisal projections
indicate an 8% increase in maize acreage per holding and a 23% increase in
groundnut acreage. Whereas the projections made for yields had their
basis in agronomic research, there was no empirical basis for assuming that
cropping patterns and acreage could be adjusted in the manner suggested by
the appraisal report.
A possible constraint to attainment of the acreage projections
is land availability. The appraisal projections indicated that the "average"
holding would plant 1.2 acres of groundnuts and 3.8 acres of maize, for a
total of 5.0 acres under these two crops. Actual figures for 1969-71
indicate that the average holding was planting 1.0 acre of groundnuts and
3.7 acres of maize. However, in 1971-72, for the combined Phase I and II
area, the mean cropped acreage per holding was 4.55. These 1971-72 data
also show that the median holding size is below the mean and that approxi-
mately one-half of all holdings plant less than four acres to all crops
together. Thus, even leaving aside consideration of tobacco acreage or
the area planted to other food crops, it appears that the average holding
may be experiencing a land constraint which will make it difficult to
attain the projected acreages of maize and groundnuts.
Another bottleneck to the expansion of groundnut production is
labor requirements, which are much greater for them (both for actual
cropping and for pre-marketing processing) than for maize. The appraisal
took account of the tillage/cultivation bottleneck and proposed medium-
term credit for the purchase of draft oxen and implements.     If suitable
equipment were available for lifting groundnuts, the use of oxen would
very considerably reduce the significance of this bottleneck on the larger
holdings.   The report notes that a team of oxen and a set of implements is
sufficient for 20 acres but fails to point out the fact that draft oxen
will be uneconomic on most holdings. It is possible, therefore, that the
expansion of groundnut acreagel/ permitted through breaking this bottle-
neck would occur chiefly on the larger holdings. This in turn could1 have
a further unfavorable income-distribution effect by inducing the hiring,
at low wages, of large numbers of people for shelling (a process it has
not yet been possible to mechanize effectively) at times when they should
be giving attention to their own small farms.
Rate of Return Estimates
It is not possible to make a sound reassessment at this stage
of the projected economic return to the project. The 1968 appraisal
report calculated economic rates of return for Phase I on its own, in case
the project were not extended beyond 1972, and for the whole 13-year program;
1/ The Phase II appraisal projects a larger expansion of groundnut acreage,
to an "average" of 1.6 acres per holding.



- 16 -
the estimates were 9% and 13% respectively. A major offsetting factor to
the important yield shortfall that seems to be occurring so far is that
world market prices for both maize and groundnuts have risen more than
either the general level of prices in Malawi or the prices of nonfarm in-
puts other than fertilizer, which appear anyway to have been applied in
lesser quantity than expected. The general levels of prices in Malawi,
and of its imports, appear to have risen about 30% between 1968 and 1973-74.
But the average export price received for maize since 1968 has been about
K57 a ton, some 68% above the appraisal report's long-term projection of
K34 a ton, and current Bank projections indicate a price of some K47 at
present falling to perhaps K38 (in terms of 1974 prices) towards the end
of the current decade. Groundnut export prices were only about 15% above the
appraisal report projection of about K140 a ton (ex Limbe) for 1968-71, but in
1973/74 they rose to about 166% of projection, and curffent Bank forecasts
sliggest their declining not below about K170 a ton (in 1974 prices) by the
end of the decade.
But there are also some negative factors and, in general, consid-
erably too much uncertainty about the real validity of the baseline and
estimated actual data to warrant a sound judgment on the likely return to
the investments so far made. Data collected, by the Program staff give
some indication that, at least during Phase I, each year's expansion of
program acreage embraced areas of higher productivity and that yields out-
side the program area have been growing at rates of some 5-20% without
benefit of direct program assistance, 'so that there would be a serious
question of what might reasonably be causally attributed to the program.
Volumes of produce marketed, according to the official statistics, have
fallen below projections, but this may reflect only smuggling or higher
on-farm consumption.
As regards the uncertainty of the data available, quite apart
from the considerable doubts about the validity of the baseline data, it
must be remembered that each statistic cited is subject to a certain
margin of error so that a composite figure such as overall production -
crucial for any cost-benefit calculus - is subject to the cumulative un-
certainties of all component elements.    Overall production has to be
derived from acreage and yield data. The acreage of a given crop is it-
self obtained through a chain of estimates: the program area is such,
x percent of this area is cropped, and y percent of the cropped area
is planted to   z .   Study of information available about Lilongwe in
the early 1970s shows that total cropped area and the proportion planted
to maize. for example, may each be subject to about + 10% margins of error,
whereas Table 2 above cited only the estimated mean values for each.    As
regards yields (for all varieties together as cited in Table 1) the large
samples taken at Lilongwe give confidence limits of also about + 10%,
which is relatively high.    But when all these figures are multiplied
together then the resulting estimate of overall production is subject
to a margin of error of as much as + 40%.    Clearly these problems are
compounded when calculations are based on comparison of what is
' actually' happening under the project with what would have happened
without it.



- 17 -
It would seem that project appraisal and supervision could use-
fully haxe given more attention to the full range of yields that might be
achieved instead of mainly to estimated and projected overall averages.
Whi1e LLDP management has generally been very broad-minded and kept in
mind all dimensions of development, social as well as economic, there is
evidence that others' excessive focus on the rather uncertain trends of
overall average yields, compared with targets, may occasionally have pressured
management. into decisions that were not entirely wise: for instance, the
temporary sacrifice of the experimentation with group credit begun in 1970/71
in favor of very rapid expansion of individual credit the following year, in
the effort to get the level of inputs quickly up to that needed to permit
target yields to be reached, with consequent logjams of credit cases in
local courts and heavy administrative costs and burdens on project staff.
The fuller distribution of yields is also important from the point of view
of distribution of project benefits. The evidence indicates that yields
are in fact highly skewed such that almost two-thirds of project farmers
may achieve less than the mean yield. Typically the modal yield is one-
third to one-half the mean, while the median may be 20% or more below the
mean.
As regards the number of persons affected by the Program, avail-
able figures suggest that this has been at least in line with original
projections (see,for instance, Table 2) and probably substantially above -
both as a result of the more rapid than expected expansion of land develop-
ment works (where all the farmers would at least benefit to some extent
from the better roads and drainage provided) and as a result of the more
ambitious than originally planned credit program.
IV. The LLDP Evaluation Unit
The Evaluation Unit in the Lilongwe Program was established,
according to the appraisal report, with the following terms of reference:
A small unit, headed by an agricultural economist,
with a staff of enumerators will conduct surveys
to determine the effect of changes and the
effectiveness of techniques employed in the
Program... (and) ... to study the effects of the
Program on the individual farmer.    The main pur-
pose is to provide information for updating the
present program but the unit will also produce
data of use in planning other projects else-
where in Malawi... (and) ... for the IDA review...
The Evaluation Unit was allocated for Phase I $135,000 -- 1.9%
of total project costs, 7.6% of total administration costs, and 12.4% of
management costs. The final terms of reference provided in the appraisal
report are somewhat less specific than the original proposals contained
in the application for funding which placed more emphasis on practical
application in farm management terms:   "The information ..... colliected
will... .form the basis for advice to the extension staff as to the recom-
mended pattern and distribution of crops that should be followed on the



- 18 -
various sized holdings and produce concrete evidence as to the effects of
the different measures carried out under the Project".
By about mid-1974 the Lilongwe Evaluation Unit had produced a
series of 13 major reports plus numerous discussion and planning papers,
notes and analyses, and operational reports to management.     The fairly
vague and general nature of the terms of reference provided for evalua-
tion at LLDP are open to the broadest possible interpretation, and it is
to the credit of the evaluation staff that a crucial deficiency was recog-
nized and major efforts were directed toward evaluating the reliability
of the physical planning data used in the application to IDA.     Only
through such an assessment could the reality of projected program benefits
be ascertained. Given the dearth of objective information about small-
holder agriculture in the Lilongwe area, the Evaluation Unit also broadened
the scope of its investigation to include a detailed socio-economic study
of the target population.
When the actual work program of the Evaluation Unit was being
formulated in early 1969, it was agreed that the evaluation effort should
provide information in five specific categories:
1.  Baseline data from the undeveloped portions of the program
area so as to provide a benchmark for future evaluation
work and to verify assumptions made in the initial program
proposals.
2.  Survey data from the areas in the process of development
in order to monitor progress during the five-year phase of
intensive development activities.
3.  Survey data to provide information on the final achieve-
ments after the completion of the intensive development
phase in each area.
4.  Specific data on various sections within the program in
order to estimate optimum operational capacities and to
provide a foundation on which proposals could be formulated
for the continuation of certain sections -- credit, for
example -- at the completion of the program.
5. Data on specific enterprises, such as livestock, for which
insufficient data existed for planning purposes.
The data required to produce these various types of information were grouped
under three broad headings: (1) land classification and cropping patterns,
(2) farm production and consumption figures, and (3) miscellaneous, includ-
ing principally data relating to the operations of the various sections --
credit, extension, construction, land allocation, etc. -- within the overall
program. Data in categories 1 and 2 were to be collected through sample
surveys carried out in the field by teams of enumerators.
Unfortunately, many of the ambitious and commendable objectives
set out in the paragraph above were not fulfilled, or were met in such a



- 19 -
way that the results are of dubious value. The various reports and docu-
ments produced by the LLDP Evaluation Unit provided a large part of the
input for the review of the program under the Bank's Africa Rural Develop-
ment Study, and the necessity of relying upon them revealed both their
strengths and shortcomings. Without the reports, a meaningful review
would have been impossible and far more praise than criticism is deserved.
Nevertheless, there were some important questions the review hoped to
answer on the basis of the data collected by the Lilongwe Evaluation Unit
which could not be answered.
A first problem was that the Evaluation Unit was set up too
late and that it had partially to be diverted to fill other gaps. Because
of the delays associated with staff recruiting and training, the Evalua-
tion Unit became operational only well after the program was underway.
Due to the accounting difficulties mentioned earlier it had to give sig-
nificant attention to processing of cost data which was very necessary and
useful for project management but not of direct priority under the evalua-
tion objectives mentioned above. The Unit produced its first discussion
paper only shortly before the preparation of Phase II began and, after a
major effort to assemble the proposals for Phase II (a job accomplished
within abcut a year of the Unit's establishment), it turned to its first
major report which appeared only a month before the Phase II appraisal
report. The delay in establishing the unit, together with the normal lags
in evaluation work, meant that there was very little opportunity for
design of Phase II to benefit from analyzed experience under Phase I.
Staffing continued to be a problem. For a period of almost a
year and a half toward the end of Phase I, there was no senior evaluation
officer at LLDP because of recruiting difficulties. As a consequence, the
Evaluation Unit suffered from lack of direction and progress was slow.
No major reports were published from October 1971 until mid-1973, and few
other materials were produced during this period. Another aspect of the
staffing problem relates to the quality of field staff. Experience at
Lilongwe indicates that the men who ask the questions of farmers and who
measure their fields must be highly trained and strongly motivated if
meaningful data are to be collected. In addition, a high degree of super-
vision is essential to prevent data collection from degenerating into a
process in which enumerators supply answers for farmers. Such supervision
is costly in terms of senior staff time.
A major piece of work started by the Evaluation Unit was unfortu-
nately abandoned half way through. Detailed farm management data were collected
in continuous surveys over a sample of 100-120 farmers throughout a period
of three years as the farmers were exposed to the program's influence.
These data were collected with the objective in mind of permitting the ex-
tension section to undertake farm planning work. After consuming a large
proportion of Evaluation Unit resources and staff time ($80-90,000 and
some 40 man-years), the farm management surveys were dropped when management
decided that elaborate farm planning had little practical place in the con-
text of the very small holdings existing in the area because the range of
alternative cropping patterns is very limited.    This decision, however,
ignored the fact that there is a place for farm planning even on very small
holdings, particularly in working out improved rotations and integrating



- 20 -
other activities with cropping. With resources fully taxed by subsequent
on-going survey work, the Evaluation Unit has never been able to analyze.
the farm management data collected, despite the fact that the data are
already on some 150,000 computer cards.
There would be merit in analyzing the farm management data even
if only on the grounds that such comprehensive surveys are extremely rare
in Africa, but a far more important reason is that such analysis should
be capable of helping explain several operational questions: for example,
the decline in groundnut yields, the fall in cash sales of inputs asso-
ciated with the credit program, or the fact that the marketed output of
maize has been below projected levels.
Other unanswered questions at LLDP relate to the distribution
of credit funds and the use of and need for seasonal production credit.
Both loans and defaults are distributed according to distinct geographical
patterns, but the determinants of these patterns are unknown, though it
might be possible to ascertain them from further analysis of existing data.
As the program keeps no records of those who apply for credit but do not
receive it, a study of the need for credit would be exceedingly difficult
without further fieldwork on a substantial scale.
Likewise there has been no analysis of the only data available
which could reveal irmportant secondary effects arising from the project --
such as changes in income, investment and consumption -- or whether benefits
have been generated according to the pattern set out at appraisal or have
arisen through other processes. One survey has been carried out to deter-
mine farmers' knowledge about extension recommendations, but this survey
of knowledge has not been related to the actual practices adopted by
farmers.   Considerable work in the area of rural sociology elsewhere
suggests that the gap between knowledge and application may be a sizeable
one. It has been difficult, therefore, for management to establish guide-
lir.es for improving the extension service.
Having noted the problems and shortcomings of the Evaluation
Unit at LLDP, a comment should be made on its major strength. Explicitly
recognizing that rural development is a multi-dimensional process, the
Evaluation Unit has consistently collected a range of sociological infor-
mation despite the fact that such information frequently has little short-
term operational content.    Operating in this manner, the Evaluation Unit
has helped to counteract the economic and agricultural bias built into
the original design of the Program and to promote the recognition that the
major determinant of the pace of development is the response of the people
toward whom the program is directed.
The Bank is to be commended for promoting the inclusion of an
evaluation unit in the original program, but its interest in the evalua-
tion process seems to have dwindled during implementation. Even during
Phase II, interest seems to have been displayed only sporadically, mainly
when supervision missions required data. The Bank did not pay enough atten-
tion to the delays in setPing up the Unit nor to solution of staffing
problems, and made no effort to see that conflicting objectives were resolved



- 21 -
and that data of high utility were analysed.    There is little doubt among
professionals that evaluation units can have a worthwhile role to play in
rural development projects, both in promoting more effective management
and in advancing knowledge about the needs and responses of rural peoples,
but the Bank did little until Phase III, to strengthen the role of the
LLDP Unit.
V. Conclusions
A review of the developments at the Lilongwe Land Development
Program during Phase I reveals that the program was extremely effective
in all aspects relating to physical infrastructure development. However,
numerous problems -- especially those relating to staffing -- impeded
operations in other areas, and the accelerated pace of infrastructure
development resulted in inadequate coordination with other parts of the
program which developed less rapidly. The appraisal's principal yardstick
of accomplishment at LLDP was increased crop productivity and production,
but the picture that emerges from the available data is a mixed one. The
data suggest that a potential exists to increase maize yields, though t'is
potential has only been realized for a small number of program farmers and
is subject to very considerable inter- and intra- seasonal variation. The
data also indicate a decline in groundnut yields but the reasons for this
decline are unclear. Methodological problems have prevented any assess-
ment of tobacco yields. A range of secondary and tertiary benefits, such
as favorable changes in consumption and investment patterns, was expected
to result from increased production and incomes; but, although data have
been collected which could reveal the emergence of such benefits, these
data have not been analyzed.    Finally, it has not been possible to assess
the effects of the delays and shortfalls in parts of the Program, partic-
ularly in the extension service and training.
In short, no convincing evidence is available from Phase I
either to repudiate or to confirm the economic validity of the investment
undertaken. Given the strong emphasis in Phase I on the development of
infrastructure, it may be some time yet before such evidence is Eorthcoming.
Not only were the full benefits of the program's activities expected to
materialize only over a period of 13 years but also, in this particular
case, the program is very much a living and continuing organism with a
management adapting the project through expanding phases to changing cir-
cumstances and new knowledge.    A performance audit of Phase I aLmost in-
evitably fails to detect more subtle yet profound changes that may be
occurring slowly, particularly for example as a result of the participation
of large numbers of people in active committees or as a result of the reg-
istration of family land holdings. An increasing amount and variety of
self-help activities are beginning to be visible in the area.     Moreover
there are signs of other non-quantifiable, indirect benefits of LLDP activi-
ties.   For example, the project itself appears to have had a significant
impact on certain Government procedures, encouraging responsive flexibility
in procurement, expenditure authorization procedures and civil service
regulations. Likewise LLDP appears to lhave had a positive impact on FMB staff
and operations in the area. Besides formal training, the Prograrn s nonformal
in-service training seems to be making a major contribution to the creation



- 22 -
of a large nucleus of experienced Malawian agriculturalists and low- to
middle-level administrators.    LLDP also demonstrates dramatically that,
when existing staff are motivated by management commitment and unhampered
by cumbersome regulations, the effects of shortfalls in staff numbers
can in considerable measure be offset by extra effort willingly supplied.
As regards the Bank's participation in the project, it evidently
played a major and constructive role in preparation, even if some of its
initiatives such as the creation of the ADB failed to work satisfactorily
and had to be abandoned. It showed flexibility and imagination in adapting
to the inevitable lack of solid underlying data at the time of project
appraisal and in promoting the establishment of the evaluation unit. But
it seems unfortunate, given the novelty and complexity of this type of
project, that, no doubt due to staff constraints, it dedicated relatively
little effort to follow-up supervision. While the frequency of missions
(of all types) from the Bank was adequate, possibly even excessive since
project management sometimes complained about the time required to show
people around and the diversity of opinions expressed to Government, it seems
that there was scope for systematic supervision more thorough and more fre-
quent than the approximately once a year attained and for more Bank
assistance with the problems that arose during implementation.     Project
management felt, for example, that the Bank should have encouraged early
and continuing debate on development of institutions to succeed the project.
It would also have been useful if supervision missions had worked with a
project-specific pro forma, which would have detailed items for review,
actions needed and action dates. The delay between identification of a
problem by the supervision missions and its resolution suggests that the
missions could usefully have been given more authority to secure approval
of certain types of alterations in the field and provide definitive assurances
so that management can proceed with making necessary commitments. The fact
that no two supervision missions included the same personnel meant that much
time was lost in basic familiarization and collecting background information.
Project management would also have liked to have had a sociologist included
in the supervision missions, but this expertise was not available. It is
likely that a closer relation with the Program would have allowed the Bank
to take positive actions, for example, in helping with the Program's staff-
ing problems, in asking more forcefully for better accounting procedures,
in promoting the earlier establishment of the Evaluation Unit and in urging
analysis of collected data.
On basic project design the main question that emerges from this
case is whether a less capital-intensive approach could not have been taken,
with advantage not so much in financial terms and certainly not in terms
of works construction time but in terms of participation, self-help ex-
perience, income-distribution -- and better coordination of the various
dimensions of the project.    Efficient use of heavy eq.'ipment did enable
more roads and drains to be built than expected, by appropriate use of the
equipment in both wet and dry seasons and because bunds were wisely built
as roads, and it was probably also necessary forthe more important roads, e.g.
those between unit centers, which were crucial in opening up the area for
the continued development effort.    Training in equipment operation was also
a benefit of the project. Yet there is strong opinion inside and outside



- 23 -
Malawi that some works could better have been organized on a self-help
basis, there has been a move over time in this direction and it would
seem that the Bank could have contributed valuably by promoting this
approach and its testing, at least on a pilot basis, in the project.
There were works - feeder roads, some conservation works and construc-
tion - that could have been carried out in a more labor-intensive
fashion, taking advantage of the seasonality of agricultural production
requirements. Indeed, in some cases the program actually pre-empted the
activities of local people who had organized themselves to provide their
own conservation works.    An opportunity seems to have been missed to
stimulate a powerful local commitment to the program and to promote
early on a sense of local self-identity.     This course would have
channelled some direct benefits to the poorer people and would have helped
provide them with the knowledge and skills required for later maintenance
work.   The concept of direct involvement of the people in major develop-
ment activities on a self-help basis was not established in Malawi to the
extent that it could have been included at the time when the project was
conceived, in 1966-67.    But it is the kind of matter on which an
international agency can usefully propagate information about successful
experience in other countries.
The second principal point that emerges from study of this
project, with its interesting early effort at built-in evaluation, is to
underline the importance of such work, including its commencement at the
very early 'baseline' stage, in a rather elaborate way, if usable infor-
mation is to be available for judging the value of the investments under-
taken and for appropriately reorienting those that follow. For primarily
agricultural projects crop yields are the most important variable to
monitor; to measure them is conceptually easy but in practice difficult.
And even with very large (and consequently quite expensive) samples, as
used at Lilongwe, the variation in yields is so great that the mean figures
alone have little value and need to be complemented with weather-related
ranges to be useful as targets and with much fuller detail on statistical
distribution to be useful for indicating the breadth of impact the project
may be having; and all such figures need to be treated as subject to a
significant margin of error.    These points appear to apply particularly
strongly to projects in rainfed areas.






ANNEX 1
Page I of 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first four-year phase of the Lilongwe Develop-
ment Program, a long-term program, for the developnent of infrastructure and
the improvement of smallholder agricultural production in the Program Area.
The Project consists of the following:
I. Land Development. This includes, in about one-third of
the Program Area:
(a) the preparation of detailed land use plans and the
construction and maintenance of soil conservation
and drainage works;
(b)  the construction and maintenance of about 165 miles
of crop extraction roads; and
(c)  the drilling and maintenance of about 125 working
boreholes, equipped with hand-operated pumps, for
village water supply.
II.  Land Reorganization and Registration.   This includes:
(a)  the establishment, staffing and equipping of a Survey
Office in Lilongwe;
(b)  the completion of aerial topographic surveys and the
preparation of large-scale maps of the entire Program
Area;
(c)  the initiation of aerial cadastral surveys and the
demarcation, reorganization and registration of
holdings in part of the Program Area; and
(d)  the establishment and staffing of a Land Registry
Office in Lilongwe.
III.  The Provision of Marketing and Storage Facilities.    This
includes:
(a) the construction and equipping of 11 markets within
the Program Area; and
(b) the construction and equipping of a new 8,500 ton crop
storage facility in Lilongwe.
IV.  Extension, Supply and Credit Services.    This includes: the
provision of intensive agricultural extension services,
fertilizer and other farm inputs, credit to farmers for such
goods and the supervision of the use and collection of the



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
credits in the one-third of the Program Area in which land
development will be concentrated during the first phase.
V.  The Provision of Program Management, Administrative Services
and Staff Training. This includes:
(a) the establishment and staffing of an Agricultural
Development Brarnch located in Lilongwe, within the
Department of Agriculture;
(b)  the establishment and staffing of a Program Organiza-
tion under the Agricultural Development Branch with
headquarters in Lilongwe;
(c) the recruitment of qualified managerial, professional,
technical and administrative staff and the provision
of in-service training;
(d) the construction, equipping and maintenance of houses
and offices for Program Staff in Lilongwe and in the
Program Area;
(e) the purchase, operation and maintenance of vehicles,
machinery and equipment; and
(f) the provision of administrative services.
VI. The review and evaluation of progress achieved under the
Project and the preparation of detailed plans for subse-
quent phases of the Program.
Source:   Development Credit Agreement (Lilongwe Agricultural Development
Project), February 5, 1968, pp. 12-14.



