Report No. PID8280
Project Name                     Philippines-Land Administration and (@)
Management (LIL)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       PHPE66069
Borrower(s)                      GOVT. OF THE PHILIPPINES
Implementing Agency
Address DEPT. OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL
RESOURCES DENR
Visayas Ave, Dilliman,
Quezon City, 1100, the Philippines
Contact Person: Ms. Mylene Albano,
Executive Director
Tel: 63 2 925 2328
Fax: 63 2 925 2328
Email: lamp@denr.gov.ph
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                August 24, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 13, 2000
Projected Board Date             October 17, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
An Informal Policy Note (IPN) on Land Management and Administration,
prepared jointly by the Government and the Bank, highlighted the following
sector issues: Weak and Inefficient Land Administration System. There are
a number of issues identified in the IPN which constrain the efficiency
and effectiveness of the land administration system. First, there are
multiple agencies involved in land administration, with no overall
institutional mechanism for resolving outstanding issues. As a result,
many issues remain unresolved for a long time. Second, the major land
administration laws are outdated, and some do not comply with recent land
use legislation. Third, not all privately claimed alienable and disposable
(A&D) land is titled. Fourth, existing land record management systems are
inefficient, and there are limited inventories of land records. Fifth, a
large proportion of the records has been destroyed by war, theft, fire and
water damage, or simply misplaced in the frequent transfer of records.
Many of the remaining records are in exceedingly fragile condition and
some have been illegally altered. Sixth, there is no complete set of
cadastral maps that show titled and untitled properties on A&D land, and
information in the Registry of Deeds (RODs) cannot be searched by parcel
or cadastral map number. Thus, the titling system does not support quality
control; consequently, multiple titles, overlap and gap titles are not
easily detected. Seventh, land registry is not easily accessible and high
transaction costs, discourage both, registration and investment. Finally,
all of these problems have eroded public confidence and trust in the
titling and registration system as a whole. Under the current land
administration system, it takes between six months to several years to
obtain original titles and between several weeks to a few months to



register subsequent land transactions. The percentage of untitled land is
high (approximately 1/3 of parcels in rural areas). Land grabbing is
widely practiced among those who can afford to pay the expenses for first
time registration. These inefficiencies, combined with high land taxes,
have produced informal land markets, particularly in poor communities,
resulting in long-term tenure insecurity and decreased government revenues
from land-related taxes. Rigid and Outdated Land Management and
Administration Policies. Fragmented responsibilities for land management
and administration among several government agencies without appropriate
mechanisms for coordination have resulted in ineffective land management
and administration. A key issue in land policy has been the land
classification system, which is rigid and unresponsive to the evolving
needs of agricultural and urban development; furthermore, it has not been
effective in promoting sound management of natural resources. Several
agrarian, urban, community development, and protected land programs have
been imposed on this fairly static land classification system by different
government agencies in recent years, leading to problems with overlapping
mandates and multiple land management and administrative processes. This
has added to the difficulty of changing the classification system, to
respond to the emerging needs for economic growth and poverty
reduction.Multiple and Inconsistent Land Valuation Systems Used in Various
Government Agencies. In the different government agencies, several systems
and methodologies for the valuation of real properties operate, and are
utilized for different purposes, including real property taxation, and
compensation for land, acquired for public investment and for valuation
under the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP). The multiplicity
of systems and methods has often produced doubtful valuations whose
contestation in court has, at times, caused long delays in the
implementation of government programs. Doubtful and contested land
valuations have also had an adverse impact on the efficiency of land
markets and land administration. Below market valuation of land prevents
the efficient allocation of lands to their best use and leads to a
relatively low tax burden which encourages land speculation and undermines
the generation of significant revenues from land ownership. The absence of
national standards and methods of valuation in accordance with
international standards and practice provide a loophole to the
overvaluation of real property and underestimation of a property-related
lending risk. This undermines the integrity of financial transactions and
the stability of the financial system.Inefficient Land Markets. An
inefficient and ineffective land administration system combined with
fragmentation of responsibilities of land management and administration
and inconsistent and outdated land policies have resulted in inefficient
land markets. In the urban land market, there is unmet demand for housing,
commercial and industrial land because urban land supply is far short of
demand. In addition, difficulties surrounding the conversion of
agricultural lands to non-agricultural use, whether for housing,
commercial or industrial purposes, have constricted the supply of urban
land. This shortage of urban land has led to rising urban land prices that
have made it unaffordable for the majority of the population. The high
cost of urban land has driven many people to establish informal
settlements on public and private lands. The Comprehensive Agrarian Reform
Program (CARP), which is achieving some success in promoting social equity
through the transfer of lands to landless farmers has, nonetheless, had an
adverse effect on formal rural land markets. The CARP law has restrictions
on the buying and selling of agricultural land under the program. In
-2 -



addition, many untitled privately claimed alienable and disposable (A&D)
lands exist outside the formal rural land market. This phenomenon, and the
CARP law restrictions, are the main causes of stagnation in the formal
rural land market. Government Strategy. The Government Strategy on land
administration and management, which was approved by the National Economic
and Development Authority (NEDA) Board sets out the Government direction
for improving the security of land tenure, improving service delivery of
land administration, eliminating fake and multiple titles, and promoting
an efficient land market. The Strategy outlines the steps the Government
plans to achieve the desired objectives. The Strategy recognizes the
long-term nature of this program and highlights a focussed approach on the
first step, undertaken in a 3-year project (this project) to study and
test alternative techniques with regards to policy, institutional and
technical methods and make recommendations to the Government for decisions
and actions before the initiation of the long-term program. The commitment
of the Government to implement this Strategy was shown by the fast
approval by the Investment Coordination Committee (ICC) Board of the
proposed project. Further, the President of the Republic of the
Philippines established the Inter-agency Coordinating Committee (IACC) by
Executive Order No. 129 to prepare and coordinate the implementation of
the Land Administration and Management Program. The IACC is chaired by the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), co-chaired by the
Department of Justice (DoJ) and includes the membership of 13 departments
and agencies directly involved in the land administration and management.
The IACC reports directly to the President of the Republic of the
Philippines.
2. Objectives
The Land Administration and Management Program (LAM Program)The LAM
Program is a long-term commitment (could be 15-20 year program) by the
Government of the Philippines. The overall goal of the program is to
alleviate poverty and enhance economic growth by improving the security of
land tenure and fostering efficient land markets in rural and urban areas,
through the development of an efficient system of land titling and
administration, which is based on clear, transparent, coherent and
consistent policies and laws, and is supported by an appropriate
institutional structure.The long-term program would achieve:A clear,
transparent, coherent and consistent set of land administration policies
and laws;Accelerated programs that would formally recognize the rights of
eligible land holders and facilitate the recording of these rights in a
strengthened land administration system;An efficient land administration
system operating throughout the Philippines in accordance with government
policy, and responsive to the needs of the people, supported by a
sustainable financing mechanism;An effective and transparent land
valuation system, in line with internationally accepted standards, that
serves the needs of all levels of government and the private sector; andA
well functioning land market operating in both urban and rural areas.The
Land Administration and Management Project (LAM Project)The project would
be a first step towards the implementation of a long-term land
administration and management program. The development objectives of the
project is to assess the viability of the Land Administration and
Management Program and to formalize the institutional arrangements needed
to support its development, by testing alternative approaches to
accelerated programs designed to improve the protection of rights to land,
eliminate fake titles, and introduce a framework for an equitable systems
- 3 -



of land valuation. . This would be done through: (i) policy studies,
analysis, and key decisions and actions of the Government of the
Philippines (GOP); (ii) prototypes to test and implement interim
institutional arrangements and adjusted processes of work flow to develop
an efficient land titling and administration system in the prototype
areas; (iii) evaluation of the prototypes; and (iv) drafting of legal
instruments to formalize the institutional arrangements.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank financed several land titling and administration projects in East
Asia region. Almost all of these projects are co-financed by AusAID. The
Experience in these projects as well as other Bank supported projects in
other parts of the world shows that the issues of land management and
administration are often complex, politically charged, requiring high and
sustained commitment to address institutional and policy reform. The Bank
will facilitate the exchange of experiences among those countries, provide
policy and technical advise on the different aspects of the program,
facilitate the coordination between the different agencies, and provide
funds to undertake the implementation of the program.
4. Description
1.  Land Policy Component (US$ 0.50 million). The component would study
and make recommendations on key policy areas of land administration,
including: (i) land development process; (ii) land registration finance
and fee structure; (iii) real property valuation framework; (iv) forest
boundary demarcation and operational procedures policy study; (v)
fragmented land laws and regulations framework; and (vi) institutional
arrangements for land administration.2. Prototype Projects (US$ 4.5
million). The component would have two prototype projects: Land Titling
and Administration prototype and Record Management prototype. The Land
Titling and Administration prototype (US$ 3.25 million) will be
implemented in six municipalities in Leyte province and will focus on
accelerating the issuance of land titles using the existing administrative
and judicial proceedings, enhancing service delivery of land
registration, and improving coordination between DENR and DAR in the
implementation of CARP operations. The land record prototype (US$ 1.35
Million) will be implemented in Quezon City and will focus on record
verification and reconstitution, creation of cadastral map base in the
ROD, elimination of fake and duplicate titles (in the prototype area), and
linkage to the LRA-sponsored computerization project, Build, Own and
Operate (BOO) and other government land related comnputerization projects.
3. Institutional Development (US$ 5.0 million). The component would
provide support to the Project Management Office and the two Project
Implementation Offices of the two prototype projects. This component will
include: technical assistance (TA), training and overseas study tours,
monitoring and evaluation including two rounds of social assessment and
one development impact study, and the purchase of furniture, office
equipment, and vehicles. The Australian Agency for International
Development (AusAID) would finance (subject to AusAIDs management
approval) the TA, international training and overseas study tours. 4.
Phase II preparation (US$ 0.3 million). The component would include the
design of the long-term program of the Land Administration and Management
including one round of social assessment.
5. Financing
-4-



Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       1.36
IBRD                             4.74
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT        4.2
Total Project Cost               10.3
6. Implementation
The successful implementation of the Project would require the coordinated
inputs from several key agencies particularly the Land Management Bureau
(LMB) and the Land Management Service (LMS) in DENR, the Land Registration
Authority (LRA) and the Registries of Deeds (RODs) in DOJ, the Department
of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and their offices in the field, and the Bureau of
Local Government Finance (BLGF) and the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR)
of the Department of Finance (DOF). The framework to support this
coordinated effort has already started, with the formation of an
Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee (IACC) and a Technical Working Group
(TWG). DENR has played a key role in promoting the Program, and therefore,
would be the lead agency for the preparation and implementation of the
project. DENR would collaborate closely with other key agencies like the
LRA/DOJ, DAR, and BLGF/DOF during project implementation. Similarly, the
role and active support of the courts would have to be elicited given
their critical importance in the entire land administration process.For
this project, DENR will take the lead in project implementation under the
overall guidance of the IACC. The lead agency of the long-term program
will be determined during this project as part of the institutional
arrangement study. The Project Management Office (PMO) would be headed
by an Executive Director (who is already appointed) and two Deputy
Directors, one from the Land Management Bureau (LMB) of DENR, the other
from LRA. The PMO would be staffed by contracted and detailed qualified
staff from the three main agencies, DENR, LRA, DAR. The PMO Executive
Director will report to the Inter-Agency Coordination Committee (IACC) for
policy and technical guidance and to DENR for administrative and financial
matters. There will be two Prototype Implementation Offices (PIOs) to be
responsible for the actual implementation of the two prototype projects.
The PIO of the Land Titling and Administration Prototype (PI01) will be
located in Palo Municipality of Leyte province. The PI01 would be headed
by a senior DENR official and staffed by detailed and contracted qualified
staff from ROD, LMS, and Municipal Agrarian Reform Offices (MARO). The PIO
for the Land Records prototype (PI02) will be located in Quezon City
Register of Deeds and be headed by a senior LRA official. PI02 will be
staffed by detailed and contracted qualified staff from DENR-NCR (National
Capital Region), ROD, and the LGU. The two PIOs will report to the PMO for
both technical and administrative matters. In addition, a local advisory
committee will be established in the locality of the two prototype areas
to monitor the implementation of the prototype projects and provide advice
to the PIOs. The local advisory committee will be headed by the chief
executive of the local government in the prototype area and will include
representatives from regional and local government agencies, NGOs and POs.
While the PMO will coordinate the Studies' component, the line agencies
will be responsible for the substance of the studies, thus serving in a
counterpart capacity. The counterpart for the Property Valuation Study and
Finance and Fee Structure Study will be DOF (with active participation of
BLGF/BIR); Land Development Process Study is NEDA; Institutional Structure
for Land Administration will be the Department of Budget and Management
- 5 -



(DBM), Fragmented Land Laws and Regulations Study will be DOJ; and
Demarcation of Forest Boundaries Policy and Operational Procedures Study
will be DENR . The lead agency will make available at least two senior
staff to work with the study team during the entire study period.To
clarify the roles and responsibilities of the IACC, PMO, PIOs and the
Local Advisory Committee, the PMO will prepare Memoranda of Agreements
(MOAs) at the central and local levels, to provide a framework for
agreements among the different agencies. these will be prepared and signed
prior to Bank approval. The detailed design of the two prototypes spells
out the detailed implementation arrangements for the prototype activities.
7. Sustainability
The project will help the government to assess the viability of the Land
Administration and Management Program and to formalize the institutional
arrangements needed to support its development, by testing alternative
approaches to accelerated programs designed to improve the protection of
rights to land, eliminate fake titles, and introduce a framework for an
equitable systems of land valuation. Sustainability of the achievements
under this project will entirely depend on the success of the government
to achieve the project objectives and the political commitment to build on
the achievements to expand the program to cover the whole country.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has an active portfolio in the Philippines. Though, this is the
first project supporting the reform of land administration and management
system. The recent CPPR review mission agreed with the government to a
readiness for implementation filter. This project is design incorporating
this filter. The World Bank experience with supporting land titling and
administration worldwide has been mixed, with success primarily recorded
in Thailand projects with less success recorded in most of other projects.
A new generations have been supported since the 90s with main focus on
policy and institutional reform. While there is currently no formal review
of the success of these projects, first experience shows positive
experiences. The Bank/AusAID relations in the financing of the East Asian
land administration projects (Thailand, Laos, Indonesia and now the
Philippines) is very strong.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The impact of the proposed project on the
environment would be neutral in the short and medium term. Experience in
the Bank-supported land administration projects in Thailand and the
Brazilian North East Region Land Tenure Improvement Project indicates no
significant impact on the environment. In the long term though,
transparent and efficient land administration systems and coherent and
transparent land management policies would have a positive impact on the
environment in a number of aspects. Improved land security provides
incentives to invest in improved long-term land use (e.g. soil
conservation in rural areas, and investment in environmental
infrastructure such as kitchen and bathrooms in urban areas). Project
outputs including spatial data such as aerial photographs and cadastral
maps would be useful inputs into environmental management. As this
project is supported by a LIL and has a short-term duration of 3 years, no
separate environmental assessment report has been prepared. All disclosure
- 6-



requirements have been met. The project would support a study to develop a
national policy and operational procedures for demarcation of forest
boundaries taking into account the legal rights of forest occupants, and
the indigenous peoples and their access to forest resources are protected.
Under this project, there are no indigenous peoples affected and
therefore, OD 4.30 is not applied. The policy and operational procedures
will be reviewed during the preparation of the follow-up project, and if
found satisfactory to the Bank, the follow-up project could support the
actual demarcation of forest boundaries.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Wael Zakout
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473 3537
Fax:   (202) 477 2733
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 25, 2000
- 7 -



