Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20755-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.79 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
LAND ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
September 20, 2000
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 26, 2000)
Currency Unit = Peso (P)
1 pesos = US$0.0223
US$1.00 = 44.75
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID        The Australian Agency for International Development
BLGF          Bureau of Local Government Finance
CARP          Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DENR          Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOJ           Department of Justice
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
GOP           Government of the Philippines
IACC          The Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
ICC           Investment Coordination Committee
IPN           Informal Policy Note
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
LMB           Land Management Bureau
LRA           Land Registration Authority
MARO          Municipal Agrarian Reforn Office
NEDA          National Economic and Development Authority
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
PIO           Prototype Implementation Office
PMO           Project Management Office
ROD           Registry of Deeds
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Vinay K. Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mark D. Wilson, Acting, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Wael Zakout, EASRD



PHILIPPINES
LAND ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      5
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              9
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            9
2. Financial                                                                          10
3. Technical                                                                          11
4. Institutional                                                                      11
5. Social                                                                             11
6. Environmental                                                                      12
7. Participatory Approach                                                             12
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     13
2. Critical risks                                                                     13
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     14
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            14
2. Other                                                                              15



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 31
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             35
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   46
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 47
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                48
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          50
MAP(S)
IBRD 30861



PHILIPPINES
Land Administration and Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASRD
Date: September 20, 2000                          Team Leader: Wael Zakout
Country Manager/Director: Vinay K. Bhargava       Sector Manager/Director: Mark D. Wilson
Project ID: P066069                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan          K Credit       [] Grant        K Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$4.79 million
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% for the first                   Service charge: 0.00%
four years; and 0.75% thereafter (if
applicable)
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financin Plan:    suce                                      lcaF i                        Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     1.36           0.00           1.36
IBRD                                                           2.59           2.20           4.79
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL                            1.00            3.20          4.20
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                                         4.95            5.40         10.35
Borrower: GOVT. OF THE PHILIPPINES
Responsible agency: DEPT. OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
(DENR)
Address: Visayas Ave, Dilliman, Quezon City, 1100, The Philippines
Contact Person: Ms. Mylene Albano, Assistant Secretary for Local Governments and Executive Director of LAMP
Tel: 63 2 925 2328               Fax: 63 2 925 2328                Email: lamp(denr.gov.ph
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
AY     a     2001   f  200,I   2003              2004 f_
Annual      0.5          1.5         2.0         0.8
Cumulative     0.5          2.0          4.0        4.8
Project implementation period: November 2000 - April 2003
Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/2000  Expected closing date:  09/30/2003
OCS PAD Fa Rft M-.h MM



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Land Administration and Management Program (LAM Program)
The LAM Program is a long-term commitment (could be 15-20 year program) by the Government of the
Philippines. The overall goal of the program is to alleviate poverty and enhance economic growth by
improving the security of land tenure and fostering efficient land markets in rural and urban areas, through
the development of an efficient system of land titling and administration, which is based on clear,
transparent, coherent and consistent policies and laws, and is supported by an appropriate institutional
structure.
The long-term program would achieve:
* A clear, transparent, coherent and consistent set of land administration policies and laws;
*   Accelerated programs that would formally recognize the rights of eligible land holders and facilitate the
recording of these rights in a strengthened land administration system;
*   An efficient land administration system operating throughout the Philippines in accordance with
government policy, and responsive to the needs of the people, supported by a sustainable financing
mechanism;
* An effective and transparent land valuation system, in line with internationally accepted standards, that
serves the needs of all levels of government and the private sector; and
i   A well functioning land market operating in both urban and rural areas.
The Land Administration and Management Project (LAM Project)
The project would be a first step towards the implementation of a long-term land administration and
management program. The development objectives of the project are to assess the viability of the Land
Administration and Management Program and to formalize the institutional arrangements needed to support
its development, by testing alternative approaches to accelerated programs designed to improve the
protection of rights to land, eliminate fake titles, and introduce a framework for an equitable system of land
valuation. This would be done through: (i) policy studies, analysis, and key decisions and actions of the
Government of the Philippines (GOP); (ii) prototypes to test and implement interim institutional
arrangements and adjusted processes of work flow to develop an efficient land titling and administration
system in the prototype areas; (iii) evaluation of the prototypes; and (iv) drafting of legal instruments to
formalize the institutional arrangements.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The impacts and outcomes of the project would be measured through a set of key indicators which include:
(i) Government approves a time-bound action plan to set up the institutional arrangements necessary for an
improved and effective system of land administration; (ii) The Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
(IACC) and key agencies approve recommendations for policy formulation in the areas of: (a) property
valuation; (b) demarcation of forest boundaries; (c) land development process; (d) finance and fee
structures for land registration; (e) fragmented laws and regulations; and (f) institutional structure for land
administration; (iii) Procedures and guidelines for accelerating land titling programs tested, reviewed and
endorsed by the implementing agencies and the IACC; (iv) Procedures and guidelines for land records
reconstitution tested, reviewed and endorsed by the implementing agencies and the IACC; and (v)
- 2 -



Government approves the direction of the long-term program and phase II of the LAM project, which
includes a time frame of addressing institutional and policy reform areas recommended by the IACC and
expanding the titling program and the record reconstitution program to the rest of the country. Detailed
performance indicators are included in Annex I.
Rationale for Using a LIL
Experience in the sector shows that the issues of land management and administration are often complex,
politically charged, requiring high and sustained commitment to address institutional and policy reform. In
many countries, the process took a long time (Thailand, for example, took around 20 years and Indonesia is
embarking on a 25 year program). Therefore, the use of the LIL will provide an opportunity to test
approaches, achieve changes, and assure workable institutional arrangements prior to supporting the
long-term program. While the Government at all levels recognizes the urgent need to improve the current
land administration system, at present the institutional arrangements and policy reform needed to best
achieve this objective are still unclear. A LIL would enable learning, communication, and building
consensus among different stakeholders to propose changes in organizational culture as a prerequisite to
subsequent commencement of the long-term program. It will also enable potential donors, including the
Bank, to assess Government commitment for reform before supporting the long-term program.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-55           Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/04/99
The proposed project is consistent with CAS objectives in two areas: (i) accelerating environmentally
sustainable agricultural growth and alleviating poverty in rural areas; and (ii) promoting sustainable urban
development and combating urban poverty. The proposed project would contribute to the first objective
through provision of secure land titles to landholders in rural areas where poverty is more prevalent. The
land titles could be used as collateral for credit needed to promote investment, productivity, and incomes.
The project would contribute to the second objective by rationalizing land policies and institutional
responsibilities for land administration. This would enable transparent and secure land transactions,
facilitating investment, growth, and the building of more affordable housing in the urban areas. In addition,
improving land administration functions would improve the effectiveness and efficiency of land registration
offices, reduce corruption in land transactions, and eventually eliminate bad and fake titles. This outcome is
also consistent with the CAS objective of improving govemance and transparency and combating
corruption.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
An Informal Policy Note (IPN) on Land Management and Administration, prepared jointly by the
Government and the Bank, highlighted the following sector issues:
Weak and Inefficient Land Administration System. There are a number of issues identified in the IPN
which constrain the efficiency and effectiveness of the land administration system. First, there are multiple
agencies involved in land administration, with no overall institutional mechanism for resolving outstanding
issues. As a result, many issues remain unresolved for a long time. Second, the major land administration
laws are outdated, and some do not comply with recent land use legislation. Third, not all privately claimed
alienable and disposable (A&D) land is titled. Fourth, existing land record management systems are
inefficient, and there are limited inventories of land records. Fifth, a large proportion of the records has
been destroyed by war, theft, fire and water damage, or simply misplaced in the frequent transfer of
- 3 -



records. Many of the remaining records are in exceedingly fragile condition and some have been illegally
altered. Sixth, there is no complete set of cadastral maps that show titled and untitled properties on A&D
land, and information in the Registry of Deeds (RODs) cannot be searched by parcel or cadastral map
number. Thus, the titling system does not support quality control; consequently, multiple titles, overlap and
gap titles are not easily detected. Seventh, land registry is not easily accessible and high transaction costs,
discourage both, registration and investrnent. Finally, all of these problems have eroded public confidence
and trust in the titling and registration system as a whole.
Under the current land administration system, it takes between six months to several years to obtain
original titles and between several weeks to a few months to register subsequent land transactions. The
percentage of untitled land is high (approximately 1/3 of parcels in rural areas). Land grabbing is widely
practiced among those who can afford to pay the expenses for first time registration. These inefficiencies,
combined with high land taxes, have produced informal land markets, particularly in poor communities,
resulting in long-term tenure insecurity and decreased government revenues from land-related taxes.
Rigid and Outdated Land Management and Administration Policies. Fragmented responsibilities for
land management and administration among several government agencies without appropriate mechanisms
for coordination have resulted in ineffective land management and administration. A key issue in land
policy has been the land classification system, which is rigid and unresponsive to the evolving needs of
agricultural and urban development; furthermore, it has not been effective in promoting sound management
of natural resources. Several agrarian, urban, community development, and protected land programs have
been imposed on this fairly static land classification system by different government agencies in recent
years, leading to problems with overlapping mandates and multiple land management and administrative
processes. This has added to the difficulty of changing the classification system, to respond to the emerging
needs for economic growth and poverty reduction.
Multiple and Inconsistent Land Valuation Systems Used in Various Government Agencies. In the
different government agencies, several systems and methodologies for the valuation of real properties
operate, and are utilized for different purposes, including real property taxation, and compensation for land,
acquired for public investment and for valuation under the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program
(CARP). The multiplicity of systems and methods has often produced doubtful valuations whose
contestation in court has, at times, caused long delays in the implementation of government programs.
Doubtful and contested land valuations have also had an adverse impact on the efficiency of land markets
and land administration. Below market valuation of land prevents the efficient allocation of lands to their
best use and leads to a relatively low tax burden which encourages land speculation and undermines the
generation of significant revenues from land ownership. The absence of national standards and methods of
valuation in accordance with international standards and practice provide a loophole to the overvaluation of
real property and underestimation of a property-related lending risk. This undermines the integrity of
financial transactions and the stability of the financial system.
Inefficient Land Markets. An inefficient and ineffective land administration system combined with
fragmentation of responsibilities of land management and administration and inconsistent and outdated land
policies have resulted in inefficient land markets. In the urban land market, there is unmet demand for
housing, commercial and industrial land because urban land supply is far short of demand. In addition,
difficulties surrounding the conversion of agricultural lands to non-agricultural use, whether for housing,
commercial or industrial purposes, have constricted the supply of urban land. This shortage of urban land
has led to rising urban land prices that have made it unaffordable for the majority of the population. The
high cost of urban land has driven many people to establish informal settlements on public and private
lands. The CARP, which is achieving some success in promoting social equity through the transfer of lands
- 4 -



to landless farmers has, nonetheless, had an adverse effect on formal rural land markets. The CARP law
has restrictions on the buying and selling of agricultural land under the program. In addition, many untitled
privately claimed alienable and disposable (A&D) lands exist outside the formal rural land market. This
phenomenon, and the CARP law restrictions, are the main causes of stagnation in the formal rural land
market.
Government Strategy. The Government Strategy on land administration and management, which was
approved by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) Board sets out the Government
direction for improving the security of land tenure, improving service delivery of land administration,
eliminating fake and multiple titles, and promoting an efficient land market. The Strategy outlines the steps
the Government plans to achieve the desired objectives. The Strategy recognizes the long-term nature of
this program and highlights a focussed approach on the first step, undertaken in a 3-year project (this
project) to study and test alternative techniques with regard to policy, institutional and technical methods
and make recommendations to the Govemment for decisions and actions before the initiation of the
long-term program.
The commitment of the Government to implement this Strategy was shown by the fast approval by the
Investment Coordination Committee (ICC) Board of the proposed project. Further, the President of the
Republic of the Philippines established the Inter-agency Coordinating Committee (IACC) by Executive
Order No. 129 to prepare and coordinate the implementation of the Land Administration and Management
Program. The IACC is chaired by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR),
co-chaired by the Departnent of Justice (DoJ) and includes the membership of 13 departments and
agencies directly involved in the land administration and management. The IACC reports directly to the
President of the Republic of the Philippines.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The proposed project will address the issues highlighted above in land administration, policy and management,
and in property valuation. For land administration, the project will test the existing organizational responsibilities
to adopt new approaches toward improvements in delivery mechanisms of land administration. The project will
address the property valuation issues by introducing a framework for real property valuation in line with
international accepted standards and practices. The proposed project will also include several studies on key
policies in land administration. The recommendations of the proposed studies on land administration will guide
policy makers in making well informed decisions on future laws and regulations.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
D Economic       1 Technical    12 Social      1 Participation
1 Financial    1 Institutional  D Environmental El Other
Financial: The project would test a scheme for the optimal level of first time registration fees and fees on
subsequent land transactions. The optimality of the level of these fees is an important factor for: (i) cost
recovery; and (ii) participation of eligible land owners in the proposed project in terms of titling their land
and registering subsequent land transactions. While higher fees would enhance opportunities for cost
recovery and therefore, project sustainability, they would also represent a disincentive for eligible land
owners to participate in the proposed project. To address this trade-off, the project would study the
appropriate structure and level of fees with a view to enhancing cost recovery while also providing
adequate incentives for eligible land owners to participate in the program.
Technical. The proposed project would pilot several conventional and new technologies, such as rectified
- 5 -



aerial photography, total station and Global Positioning System (GPS) technologies to determine the most
cost effective technology to be used for cadastral mapping and title production, given the accuracy
requirements stated in the Philippines laws and regulations. The choice of the technology will have major
implications on the cost of title production and, therefore, on the cost of the long-term program.
Institutional. Tests to address institutional issues would be the most challenging part of the proposed
project. Responsibilities of land administration are fragmented between the Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (DENR) and the Land Registration Authority (LRA). The existing system has generated
many problems and resulted in duplicate and fake titles, and opened the door to corruption. The project
would support piloting a One-Stop-Shop (OSS) where all agencies involved in land administration have
their offices under one roof in order to improve service delivery. The project would test the viability of the
OSS in improving service delivery and building confidence and consensus among the different agencies in
order to formalize these arrangements before the implementation of the long-term program. The project
would also test public and private participation in the implementation of the project in the areas of
cadastral mapping, map production and adjudication. The formalization of the institutional arrangements
by the Govemment (either by law or by other administrative procedures) by the end of the LIL project
would be a major factor in consideration of future support to the long-term program (beyond the LIL
phase).
Social. The project would test and identify measures to ensure that operational procedures and standards
that will address social, cultural and gender considerations are in place during the adjudication process.
The project would also test ways to manage expectations, maximize transparency and public confidence,
provide safeguards to ensure full involvement of women and other marginalized or disadvantaged
beneficiaries, and expand dispute resolution. The project would include the design and assessment of
education, information and communication strategies, geared toward key stakeholders' participation, access
and benefit from the project.
Participation. The level of participation by eligible land owners is subject to, among other things: (i)
transparency of the adjudication system; (ii) first time and subsequent registration fees as described above;
(iii) intensity and depth of the Customers Relations Service (CRS); and (iv) overall confidence in the
system. The project would test (ii) and (iii). Transparency and overall confidence in the system will be the
core of the project design.
The project would also seek active participation of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), peoples'
organizations (POs), women's groups, real estate groups and other relevant associations during project
implementation. Several mechanisms and strategies will be tested and/or validated towards ensuring
informed and meaningful participation of Local Government Units (LGUs), NGOs and POs and other
relevant government and private sectors in the implementation of Social Assessment, Customers Relations
Services and Local Advisory Committee activities, among others.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1.    Land Policy Development (USS 0.50 million). The component would study and make
recommendations on key policy areas of land administration, including: (i) land development process; (ii)
land registration finance and fee structure; (iii) real property valuation framework; (iv) forest boundary
demarcation and operational procedures policy study; (v) fragmented land laws and regulations framework;
- 6 -



and (vi) institutional arrangements for land administration.
2.    Prototypes (US$ 4.5 million). The component would have two prototypes: Land Titling and
Administration prototype and Record Management prototype. The Land Titling and Administration
prototype (US$ 3.25 million) will be implemented in six municipalities in Leyte province and will focus on
accelerating the issuance of land titles using the existing administrative and judicial proceedings, enhancing
service delivery of land registration, and improving coordination between DENR and DAR in the
implementation of CARP operations. The land record prototype (US$ 1.35 Million) will be implemented in
Quezon City and will focus on record verification and reconstitution, creation of cadastral map base in the
ROD, elimination of fake and duplicate titles (in the prototype area), and linkage to the LRA-sponsored
computerization project, Build, Own and Operate (BOO) and other government land-related
computerization initiatives.
3.    Institutional Development (US$ 5.0 milion). The component would provide support to the
Project Management Office and the two Project Implementation Offices of the two prototypes. This
component will include: technical assistance (TA), training and overseas study tours, monitoring and
evaluation including two rounds of social assessment and one development impact study, and the purchase
of furniture, office equipment, and vehicles. The Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID) would finance (subject to AusAIDs management approval) the TA, international training and
overseas study tours.
4.    Phase II preparation (US$ 0.3 million). The component would include the design of the long-term
program of the Land Administration and Management including one round of social assessment.
1. Land Policy                    Institutional       0.50        4.8      0.50      10.4
Development
2. Prototypes                     Other Public        4.50       43.5      3.49      72.9
Sector
Management
3. Institutional Development to LAM  Institutional    5.00       48.3      0.70      14.6
Management Office                 Development
4. Project Preparation for Subsequent                 0.30        2.9      0.05       1.0
Phases
Total Project Costs                   10.30      99.5      4.74      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.05       0.5      0.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                   10.35      100.0      4.79     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
2.1. Institutional
The successful implementation of the Project would require the coordinated inputs from several key
agencies particularly the Land Management Bureau (LMB) and the Land Management Service (LMS) in
- 7 -



DENR; the Land Registration Authority (LRA) and the Registries of Deeds (RODs) in DOJ; the
Departrnent of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and their offices in the field; and the Bureau of Local Government
Finance (BLGF) and the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) of the Department of Finance (DOF). The
framework to support this coordinated effort has already started, with the formation of an Inter-Agency
Coordinating Committee (IACC) and a Technical Working Group (TWG). DENR has played a key role in
promoting the Program, and therefore, would be the lead agency for the preparation and implementation of
the project. DENR would collaborate closely with other key agencies like the LRA/DOJ, DAR, and
BLGF/DOF during project implementation. Similarly, the role and active support of the courts would have
to be elicited given their critical importance in the entire land administration process.
For this project, DENR will take the lead in project implementation under the overall guidance of the
IACC. The lead agency of the long-tern program will be determined during this project as part of the
institutional arrangement study. The Project Management Office (PMO) would be headed by an
Executive Director (who is already appointed) and two Deputy Directors, one from the Land Management
Bureau (LMB) of DENR, the other from LRA. The PMO would be staffed by contracted and detailed
qualified staff from the three main agencies, DENR, LRA, DAR. The PMO Executive Director will report
to the Inter-Agency Coordination Committee (IACC) for policy and technical guidance and to DENR for
administrative and financial matters.
There will be two Prototype Implementation Offices (PIOs) to be responsible for the actual implementation
of the two prototypes. The PIO of the Land Titling and Administration Prototype (PIO 1) will be located in
Palo Municipality of Leyte province. The PIO1 would be headed by a senior DENR official and staffed by
detailed and contracted qualified staff from ROD, LMS, and Municipal Agrarian Reform Offices
(MARO). The PIO for the Land Records prototype (PI02) will be located in Quezon City Register of
Deeds and be headed by a senior LRA official. P102 will be staffed by detailed and contracted qualified
staff from DENR-NCR (National Capital Region), ROD, and the LGU. The two PIOs will report to the
PMO for both technical and administrative matters. In addition, a local advisory committee will be
established in the locality of the two prototype areas to monitor the implementation of the prototypes and
provide advice to the PIOs. The local advisory committee will be headed by the chief executive of the local
government in the prototype area and will include representatives from regional and local government
agencies, NGOs and POs.
While the PMO will coordinate the Policy Studies' component, the line agencies will be responsible for the
substance of the studies, thus serving in a counterpart capacity. The counterpart for the Property Valuation
Study and Finance and Fee Structure Study will be DOF (with active participation of BLGF/BIR); Land
Development Process Study is National Economic and Development Authority; Institutional Structure for
Land Administration will be the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), Fragmented Land Laws
and Regulations Study will be DOJ; and Demarcation of Forest Boundaries Policy and Operational
Procedures Study will be DENR . The lead agency will make available at least two senior staff to work
with the study team during the entire study period.
To clarify the roles and responsibilities of the IACC, PMO, PIOs and the Local Advisory Committee, the
PMO will prepare Memoranda of Agreements (MOAs) at the central and local levels, to provide a
framework for agreements among the different agencies. These will be prepared and signed prior to Bank
approval. The detailed design of the two prototypes spells out the detailed implementation arrangements for
the prototype activities.
-8 -



3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Monitoring and Evaluation will be an integral part of project implementation and will formn a good part of
Component 3. A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established in the PMO to monitor and evaluate
policy study progress and recommendations, and the progress of the two prototypes. The two PIOs will
also establish a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to monitor the performance of the two prototypes. The
evaluation of these two components will be an important input in the formalization of the institutional
arrangements, the drafting of laws and administrative decisions, and the overall design of the second phase
of the project. In order to facilitate the Unit operations, a monitoring and evaluation system would be
established during early stages of project implementation based on the logframe of Annex 1. The technical
assistance of the project will also include intemational and national advisors to assist the PMO in the
monitoring and evaluation activities.
The component would include two rounds of social assessment, one at the beginning of the project and one
in the middle (a third round is designed at the end as an input to design of the long-term program). The
TOR of this social assessment is included in the project file. Further, a development impact study will be
conducted to monitor the socio-economic impact on project beneficiaries, with a base line study to be
carried out at the beginning of the project, followed by a second round in the subsequest phase.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
e Cost benefit    NPV=US$5.79 million; ERR = 24 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The primary benefits from the LAM project can be grouped under four categories. First, by testing and
introducing new approaches to land titling and administration, the project would lay a strong foundation for
a future LAM program which would increase efficiency in land titling and registration. Second, its
prototypes would generate some incremental land titles and the benefits that derive from them. Third, the
prototypes would also improve the quality of existing land records and efficiency in land administration
both of which would increase confidence and efficiency in the land registration system. And finally, by
improving the quality of land records, the project would increase the benefits accruing from the Build, Own
and Operate (BOO) and other government land-related computerization initiatives, that is being funded
separately.
An economic analysis for such a land administration project would normally follow the conventional
approach to economic evaluation of investments, which proceeds by estimating a future stream of costs and
benefits and deriving net benefits to calculate an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and a Net Present Value
(NPV). We are unable to undertake precise estimation of ERR and NPV for the proposed project for two
principal reasons. First, as this is a learning and innovation project with a focus on testing and learning,
project resources, spent directly on the production of land titles are limited to about one-half of total project
costs. Second, expected project benefits are difficult to estimate in the the Philippines as there are no data
on which they can be based. Past experience cannot be a guide, as the land registration system has been
dysfunctional. For these reasons, an ERR and NPV will thus not be computed for this project.
-9-



In response to the Government of the Philippines, we have carried out a hypothetical analysis of the
economic worth of the project, based on land titling experiences and data from Thailand. The method and
results of the hypothetical economic analysis are presented in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
One objective of the financial analysis would be to assess whether the net financial benefits expected from
the project are attractive enough for the targeted entities --- the landholders --- to participate in the project.
In most countries, landholders usually want to obtain land titles in order to improve land ownership security
and to use titles as collateral for institutional credit. Both, land ownership security and access to
institutional credit would lead to increased investment, land productivity, and incomes. If landholders were
to be charged the full cost of land titling, the decision by a landholder to participate in a land titling scheme
would depend on whether the expected financial returns are higher than the payment for a land title. Under
the normal situation where titles are issued upon request by landholders who are made to pay the full cost
of the title, the landholders who request a titling service do so with the expectation that the financial return
from acquiring the title would be higher than the cost of the title.
Due to the effort to keep land titling costs low by undertaking land titling in large volumes village by
village (the so-called systematic adjudication), the initial charge for a land title, under the proposed project,
has to be kept low (lower than the cost of producing a title), to ensure high participation of landholders on a
voluntary basis. It should be set at a level consistent with the affordability of the poorest landholders. For
example, in Thailand where the land titling program has been successful, landholders are charged less than
US$5/title compared to the average cost of US$36/title. The difference between US$36 and US$5 is the
subsidy from the Government of Thailand. The Government recovers the subsidy by charging registration
fees on subsequent land registrations. This arrangement has worked well in Thailand. It is expected that a
similar arrangement would be introduced in the proposed project, although a careful study of the structure
and levels of land-related taxes is planned to be undertaken with a view to striking the correct balance
between the need to attract people to register land transactions on one hand, and the need for cost recovery
and govermment revenue on the other.
Fiscal Impact:
It is expected that the proposed project would generate incremental revenue for the central and local
governments from the following sources. Higher revenues would accrue from: (i) registration fees collected
by the Register of Deeds (RODs); (ii) real property tax collected by Local Government Units (LGUs); and
(iii) capital gains tax and stamp duty collected by the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR). The increased
revenue would come as a result of a larger number of land transactions due to: (i) an increase in the
proportion of land that is titled; (ii) improved efficiency in land administration that would make it easier
and quicker for registration of land transactions; and (iii) a revival and invigoration of land markets in rural
and urban areas. Higher revenues would also come as a result of higher land values due to: (i) rising land
and property prices reflecting a higher future net income stream, created by land titling benefits; and (ii)
more objective and improved methods of property valuation which the project would promote. Due to lack
of data on changes in land transactions and expected tax elasticities, we are unable to estimate the
incremental net revenue that would be generated by the project. To give an illustration of revenue flows
from land titling, it may be useful to review the experience of another country which has been implementing
land titling projects. In Thailand, annual revenues from land-related taxes (excluding property taxes) rose
nearly 4 times within 10 years of land titling from less than US$300 million in 1984 to more than US$1
billion in 1994. These annual revenues are more than ten (10) times greater than the recurrent expenditures
- 10 -



of Thailand's Department of Lands, which amounted to US$87 million in 1997.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The proposed project would test various technologies for production of cadastral maps, including the
surveying of boundaries and title development. The choice of these technologies would depend on the
accuracy requirements of corner boundaries by the Philippines laws and considerations for
cost-effectiveness. Experience in other countries shows that the introduction of rectified aerial photography,
combined with other technologies such as a global positioning system (GPS) and total station, reduces
substantially the costs of surveying and map production. Other new technologies such as high resolution
satellite imagery would may be tested subject to coverage. Various technologies for land records
management would also be assessed during the project. These could range from a complete manual system
to semi-manual and computerized land record management systems.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Department of Environment and Natural Resources will take the lead in project implementation. Other
agencies to implement the project are the Land Registration Authority of the Department of Justice and the
Department of Agrarian Reform. DENR will take the lead in project implementation during the LIL period
and the definition of the lead agency during the long term program will be done as part of the institutional
arrangement study. Studies will be lead by the relevant agencies.
b. Project management:
DENR has implemented several World Bank and other donors financed projects. Therefore, they are
familiar with the Bank processing procedures and procurement and financial management guidelines. The
head of the Project Management Office (the Project Executive Director) is an Assistant Secretary in
DENR. Because of the important role of the Land Registration Authority in implementing the project, a
senior officer of the Land Registration Authority was appointed as Deputy Executive Director of the LAM
Project. Further, Prototype II will be headed by an LRA official.
International and local Technical Assistance would provide support to the PMO and the two PIOs in the
technical, administrative and management areas. The Technical Assistance will be mobilized at early stages
of project implementation.
5. Social:
Accelerating land titling and improving service delivery of land administration functions would result in a
reduction of disputes over land rights. In the long term, this would have a positive social impact. The
project does not intend to address the communal land tenure at this stage as the prototype sites would be
limited to urban areas and the lowland rural areas.
Social concerns and issues have all been considered in the design of the project. These will be further
revalidated through the conduct of a social assessment giving special attention to the disadvantaged and
marginalized groups, and to key stakeholders. The design of the social assessment has been prepared as
part of the project preparation, and it will be conducted in three phases during various stages of project
implementation. The first phase will be undertaken before the start of the project, the second phase just
before the mid-term review and the third phase as part of the preparation for the long-term program. The
objective of the first phase is to scan the social issues in the prototype area, the outcome of which would be
used to improve and sharpen the design of the prototypes as well as the community awareness program.
- 1 1 -



The aim is to ensure that low income and other marginal groups would have equal access to information,
benefit from the project and have their rights protected. Results of this phase would also be used to
establish an appropriate framework for stakeholders' participation and access to the project. The second
phase would cover the same area as that of the first phase and would verify the level of stakeholders'
participation, assess the project's initial social impact and determine the lessons for adjustment of the
operations of the prototype. The third phase would cover a wider area, scope and stakeholders. It would
also entail a more rigorous process than the first two phases. The government would use the output of the
social assessments to develop and implement measures to minimize and mitigate any adverse social impact
that may arise from systematic adjudiation and the issuance of land titles, especially on the poor and other
marginal groups. The methodology for social assessments and consultations were designed under the
guidance of an experienced social scientist from outside the operational Unit where the project is
task-managed.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
The impact of the proposed project on the environment would be neutral in the short and medium term.
Experience in the Bank-supported land administration projects in Thailand and the Brazilian North East
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project indicates no significant impact on the environment. In the long
term though, transparent and efficient land administration systems and coherent and transparent land
management policies would have a positive impact on the environment in a number of aspects. Improved
land security provides incentives to invest in improved long-term land use (e.g. soil conservation in rural
areas, and investment in environmental infrastructure such as kitchen and bathrooms in urban areas).
Project outputs including spatial data such as aerial photographs and cadastral maps would be useful
inputs into environmental management. As this project is supported by a LIL and has a short-term
duration of 3 years, no separate environmental assessment report has been prepared. All disclosure
requirements have been met. The project would support a study to develop a national policy and
operational procedures for demarcation of forest boundaries taking into account the legal rights of forest
occupants, and the indigenous peoples and their access to forest resources are protected. Under this project,
there are no indigenous peoples affected and therefore, OD 4.30 is not applied. The policy and operational
procedures will be reviewed during the preparation of the follow-up project, and if found satisfactory to the
Bank, the follow-up project could support the actual demarcation of forest boundaries.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Systematic adjudication is highly participatory. The adjudication process would follow the practices in
similar projects in Thailand, Laos and Indonesia, where the adjudication of land parcels is done in the
presence of the claimer of the land, all the neighbors and the village head. The claimer and all the neighbors
place boundary markers by themselves and the adjudication team records the measurement on the cadastral
map and gets signatures from all parties. To ensure all parties are present during adjudication, extensive
public information and education campaign is done one month prior to adjudication start in the community.
In the event that neighbors disagree on the boundaries, the case will be refered to the existing municipal
court. In case the number of disputed cases is large, the project would develop and implement mediation
and dispute resolution mechanisms based on the experience of similar projects.
As regards social assessment, to ensure active and meaningful participation of stakeholders in its conduct, a
core group will be formed with representation from the LGUs, NGOs/POs, academia and relevant private
- 12 -



and government agencies. The core group will be trained prior to the implementation of the first phase of
social assessment for them to take the lead in its implementation in their respective communities.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Consultations with NGOs and POs have been undertaken from the start of project preparation activities
through workshops and other informal meetings, feedback of which have been incorporated in the project
design. These consultations would continue through the rest of project preparation and implementation
stages. In addition, qualified NGOs and POs will also be engaged as service providers in the conduct of the
social assessment. They will also be involved and/or consulted in the conduct of various policy studies and
participate in the activities of the Local Advisory Committee.
The Local Advisory Committee at the prototype level and the Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
(created by virtue of Executive Order No. 129 dated July 24, 1999) at the project level will take an active
role in reviewing and providing guidance and policy directions to ensure that the project achieves its desired
social development outcomes.
c. How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The second and third phase of the social assessment and the second phase of the development impact study
will be the mechanisms to determine and measure the perfonnance of the project in terms of its achievement
of the desired social development outcomes. These two studies, which complement one another, will be
conducted separately and in a participatory manner.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Slowdown in the economy.                   M         External to the Project
IACC is not able to operate effectively     S        The IACC reports to the President of the
and exert leadership.                                Republic of the Philippines. Memoranda of
Agreements have been agreed among the main
implementing agencies.
Department and Agencies are not willing     S        The support of the long-term program will be
to accept and implement the agreed                   based on the actions taken by the govermment to
recommendations of the policy studies.               act on the recommendations of the policy
studies, including the recommendations on the
institutional arrangements for land
administration. Further, the IACC is mandated
by the E.O. 129 to report to the president on the
limplementation of the program.
- 13 -



No opposition from main stakeholders        S         The project will include a wide range of
including NGOs and POs.                              activities which involve the input and
participation of the main stakeholders including
NGOs and POs. The Social Assessment will
also evaluate the impact of the land titling on
project benificiaries. The government will use
the social assessment to develop and implement
measures to minimize and mitigate any negative
impact that may arise from the systematic
adjudication and the issuance of titles especially
on the poor and other marginal groups.
From Components to Outputs
GOP does not provide adequate budget       M         Counterpart funds is a issue in the Philippines.
for the project.                                      The World Bank management in the field is in
continuous dialogue with the Government to
ensure that adequate counterpart funds are
provided to Bank-financed projects.
LGUs do not sufficiently address the issue  M        The selection criteria for the prototype sites
of back taxes so as to encourage project             includes the willingness of the local government
beneficiaries to collect the land titles.            to address the back taxes.
The majority of land owners have legal     M         This will be investigated during the
evidence of title in the prototype area.             implementation of the prototypes.
Overall Risk Rating                         S        Moderate to High / This operation is rated a
moderate to high risk. But, with this relatively
high risk, the expected return will be equally as
high. For this reason, the project is designed as a
Learning and Innovation Loan to ensure that the
risk is adequately assessed and addressed before
embarking on supporcing the long-term program.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* None
- 14 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Other Conditions
* Selected performance indicators, agreed with the Bank, will be used to monitor project
performance, outcome and impact (monitoring and evaluation);
*  The PMO will maintain a computerized accounting system and hire qualified staff acceptable
to the Bank to operate the system;
* DENR will, by February 28 of each year, starting February 28, 2001, furnish to the Bank for
its review and comments, an annual work plan and budget; and implement it, taking into
consideration the comments from the Bank (sectoral budgetary);
* Annual financial audits will be conducted by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
and will follow the Terms of Reference (TORs) in accordance with the appropriate auditing
principles, as approved by the Bank, and such audits will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (accounts/audit);
* The PMO will ensure that the following reports are submitted to the Bank: (i) semi-annual
reports on July 31 and January 31 of each year, commencing on January 31, 2001; (ii) a report
for the project's mid-term review by September 1, 2001; and (iii) within 6 months before
project completion, the Government contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
evaluating the project's performance (monitoring and reporting);
=  A mid-term review will be conducted no later than January 31, 2002 (monitoring and
reporting);
*  The first round of the Social Assessment will be undertaken by December 31, 2000 and the
second round by December 31, 2001 (Monitoring and Reporting);
T The Government would develop and implement measures to minimize and mitigate any
adverse social impacts that may arise from the systematic adjudication and issuance of land
titles, especially on poor and vulnerable groups by February 28, 2002;
=  The Land Development Process Study, Property Valuation Study, the Finance and Fee
Structure Study, the Fragmented Land Laws and Regulations Study, the Institutional Structure
for Land Administration Study, and the Demarcation of Forest Boundaries Policy Study shall
be completed by December 2002; and
*  The preparation of the long-term program will be initiated by September 30, 2002.
- 15 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
1Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1F 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
OI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
aI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Wael tZakout                    hMark D. Wilson               4.. Vinay K. Bhargava
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director      f    Country Manager/Director
- 16 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
Hoaeyof Objectives          In40"                 oIo~g&Evalaton            Cioa Assmption
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Accelerate environmentally   Sustained increase in   Government statistics
sustainable agricultural  agricultural growth
growth and alleviate poverty
in rural areas
Promote sustainable urban    Increase in affordable housing Government statistics
development
Inprove governance,       Transparency international   International rating on
transparency and combat   ratings on perception of   corruption
corruption                corruption show improvement
Follow-on Development
Objective:
To alleviate poverty and  Increased confidence of the    Socio-economic studies
enhance economic growth by  security of titles by both
improving the security of land landholders and banks
tenure and fostering efficient
land markets in rural and  Increase in number of formal LRA records
urban areas, through the  land transactions
development of an efficient
system of land titling and  Increase of loan funding and  Socio-economic studies
administration, which is based mortgages to the property
on clear, coherent and    sector
consistent policies and laws,
and is supported by an    Increase in number of farmers Socio-economic study
appropriate institutional  who accesse credit
structure.
Increase in local
government-related revenues Government budget
from land-related taxes and
fees
Increase of loan funding to the Socio-economic impact
property sector            Study
- 17 -



'l~~~~~~~~w
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To formulate and approve  Government approves a      Government official records
policy and regulatory changes, time-bound action plan to set
and to test alternate     up the institutional
approaches to accelerated  arrangements necessary for
programs designed to improve improved and effective land
the protection of rights to    administration
land, eliminate fake titles,
introduce an equitable system
of land valuation and
formalize the institutional
arrangements, needed to
support implementation of the
long-term program.
IACC and key agencies     IACC official records
approve recommendations for
policy formulation in the areas
of: (i) property valuation; (ii)
demarcation of forest
boundaries; (iii) land
development process; (iv)
fnance and fee structures for
land registration; (v)
fragmented land laws and
regulations; and (vi)
institutional structure for land
registration. Time-bound
action plan for
implementation approved;
Procedures and guidelines for IACC official records
accelerating land titling
programs tested, reviewed and
endorsed by the implementing
agencies and the IACC
Government approves the    IACC official records
direction of the long-term
program and phase II of the
LAM project, which includes
a time frame for addressing
institutional and policy reform
areas recommended by the
IACC and expanding the
titling program and the record
reconstitution program to the
rest of the country
- 18-



of 0-0"'                   40 M:"              WN               I, :ft    ,=
B t -;-<~~~~~~~~ -Eyakafon  -   fLs
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. Improved institutional  1.1 Improved coordination    1.1 Assessment by key  Continued high political
coordination and          mechanism among the       stakeholders               support to the Program;
arrangements in the issuance  implementing agencies
of patents and the
reconstitution of titles.
1.2 Recommendations (those  1.2 Assessment by PMO;   IACC is able to operate
under the authority of the  assessment by supervision    effectively and able to exert
concerned agencies) of the    missions              leadership;
institutional policy study
accepted and implemented
1.3 A time-bound action plan 1.3 IACC records       Department and agencies are
to implement the rest of the                         willing to accept and
recommendations is endorsed                         implement the agreed
by IACC                                              recommendations;
2. Priority land policy issues   2.1 A draft action plan  2.1 Assessment by public,   No opposition from main
studied and time-bound   endorsed by the IACC to    leaders implementers, and   stakeholders, including NGOs
action plan for          improve the process of land   concerned professionals  and peoples organizations;
implementation            development and planning for
agreed.                   the use of land in urban and
rural areas.
2.2 IACC endorses the      2.2 IACC official records
recommendations of the
finance and fee structure
policy study and time bound
action plan for
implementation.
2.3 IACC endorses a       2.3 IACC official records
framework for property
valuation and a time-bound
action plan for
implementation
2.4 IACC endorses         2.4. PMO records
recommendations for changes
in the legal framework for
land administration and a
time-bound plan for
implementation
2.5 IACC endorses a policy   2.5 IACC meeting minutes
framework on forest
boundaries demarcation and
legal rights of forest occupants
- 19 -



3. Streamlined and cost   3.1 Well-functioning land  3.1. Monitoring and
effective procedures are tested titling and administration  evaluation system
and put in place for an   prototype, where 80% of
accelerated program of    parcels in the prototype area
issuance of land titles   are titled with cost around
US$60 per parcel and 80% of
titles are collected and
registered by the beneficiaries
3.2 DENR, DAR and ROD    3.2 Monitoring and
operates a one-stop-shop,  Evaluation System
which cuts the time taken for
issuance of new titles by 50%
at the end of the project
3.3 Procedures and guidelines 3.3. Government records and
for accelerated land titling    feedback from users
program, including
streamlined procedures among
all the agencies, reviewed and
endorsed by the IACC to be
adopted in the implementation
of the long-term program.
3.4 An effective community   3.4 Social assessment
relations and services
program implemented
including broad social
awareness, impact monitoring,
and NGOs participation.
4. Streamlined and cost   4.1 Improved procedures for  4.1 M&E system
effective procedures to   reconstitution of titles
improve the validity and  developed, tested and
completeness of land titles in  implemented.
the register of deeds tested and
put in place.
4.2 The reconstitution of 80% 4.2 M&E system;
of all titles, including
damaged, lost or incorrect
records in the prototype area.
-20 -



4.3 Procedures for the    4.3 supervision mission and
compilation and updating of  IACC record
cadastral maps, including the
sharing of data among the
different departments/agencies
have been tested, and
implemented.
4.4 Procedures for interface
with the BOO and other    4.4 LRA and IACC records.
govermment land related
computerization projects
examined, reviewed, tested
and implemented.
5. The direction of the   5.1 The NEDA Board        5.1 Government records
long-term program and phase approved the direction of the
II of the project is approved.  long-term program and ICC
approved phase II of the
project.
- 21 -



X~~~~~~~~                    WM
.1  a.                             Monri  & Eva~i.tlon C-0COlMMu
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Land Policy and Legal  US$ 0.5 million           1. Land Development Process GOP provides adequate budget
Framework                                           Report;                   for the project;
2. Finance and Fee Structures
on land transactions Report;
3. Real Property Valuation
Report;
4. Legal Framework for Land
Administration Report;
S. Forest Boundaries Study
Report;
2. Piloting Land Titling and   US$ 4.5 million      6. Final Report on        LGU sufficiently addressed
Administration System                               Prototype I;              the issue of back taxes, so as
7. Final Report on Prototype  to encourage project
2.1 Land Titling Pilot                            II;                        beneficiaries to collect the
land titles
2.2 Land Registration Pilot
The majority of land owners
have legal evidence of title in
the prototype area;
3. Institutional Development  US$ 5.0 million       8. Monitoring and Evaluation
Reports;
9. Six Monthly Progress
Reports;
10. Mid-term Review Report;
11. Implementation
Completion Report;
4. Project Preparation for  US$ 0.3 million         12. Project Preparation Report
Subsequent phases.                                  of the long term program.
- 22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.50 million
Land Policy Studies
This component will include a minimum of six policy-oriented studies to address the key policy
issues of land administration and management, building on past studies and information. The studies will
involve extensive consultation with key stakeholders, in addition to analysis, and will be action-oriented.
Detailed terms of reference will spell out a clear mechanism for conducting, reviewing and approving the
recommendations arising from these studies. The studies would be expected to be carried out in stages
including (see chart below): (i) assessing the current status; (ii) identifying the issues; (iii) identifying
options and implications; (iv) consultating with key stakeholders to obtain consensus; and (v) agreement on
the course of actions by the IACC.
The Bank will finance the Valuation, Finance and Fee Structure, Forest Boundaries Demarcation,
and Land Development Studies, while AusAID will finance the Institutional Structure for Land
Administration and Fragmented Land Laws and Regulations Studies.
A. Property Valuation Study
Objective. The study would aim to support the development of a national real property valuation
framework, which is acceptable to all stakeholders and in line with international standards and practices.
Description.  Distorted land markets and difficulties in obtaining valid sales data have led to
formula-driven cost-based valuation. In addition, there is no uniform valuation system or standards and
under-valuation and inequitable valuation are rife, particularly in local government taxation of land and
real estate. Valuation rules are prescriptive and rigid and high tax rates compound the problem. At the
same time, Government revenues are low due to undervaluation. The weaknesses in valuation would be
addressed by the proposed study which would: (i) study and examine current property valuation practice,
identify strengths, weaknesses, levels of equitability, and cost of the existing system; (ii) develop options
and determine the cost of establishing a framnework for a market-based property valuation system in
accordance with internationally accepted standards; (iii) undertake discussions and workshops with key
stakeholders in both government and private sectors, NGOs and POs to achieve consensus on a national
valuation framework for taxation and compensation purposes; and (iv) identify an action plan to implement
the framework.
Deliverables. Five deliverables: (i) a short report with annexes on the current valuation practices; (ii) a
discussion paper identifying options for the national framework of real property valuation; (iii)
consultations on agreed-upon course of action; (iv) the drafting of any necessary acts or laws as agreed
during the consultations; and (v) a recommended a time-bound action plan to implement the
recommendations.
B. Finance and Fee Structure
Objectives. The study would recommend revisions in the structure and levels of taxes and charges in the
titling and transfer of land to eliminate current disincentives for registration of land transactions. The
- 23 -



proposed review would take into account the central and local government revenues from property
taxation, and the need to correct real property market distortions.
Description. High fees and taxes for first time and subsequent registration together with back taxes have
produced major disincentives for first time and subsequent land registration. Evidence indicates that less
than 30% of the landholders in rural areas are able to meet the costs of having their land titled. The high
costs of land titling and registration have been an important factor leading to a high incidence of informal
transactions in land and becoming a contributing factor to loss of confidence in the titling system. The
proposed study would be done in two phases. The first phase would be a quick review and recommended
action to reduce land titling and transfer fees and taxes as well as related back taxes in order to stimulate
landholders to title their properties in the prototypes. The second phase of the study would be undertaken
during project implementation. It would review the current tax and fee structure and recommend changes
taking into account new initiatives under the LAM project, namely: (i) introduction of market-based
methods of valuation as a basis for tax and fee assessment; and (ii) an increased rate of registration of
transactions together with higher turnover in land markets.  The recommendations would aim  at
maximizing participation of landholders in land titling and registration, while also ensuring that cost
recovery objectives of the Government are met. Using data generated from the prototypes, the study would
estimate revenue-generated using the recommended tax and fee structure (together with improved methods
of valuation and higher volume of registered transactions) and compare this with revenue-earned in the past
under the scenario of a high fee and tax structure, together with poor valuation methods and lower volume
of registered transactions. The recommended changes in taxes and fees would be implemented after the
relevant authorities have considered the implications of the Government's fiscal policy.
Deliverables. Five deliverables: (i) a short report identifying all taxes and fees currently applied to real
property; (ii) a short discussion paper on the impact of these taxes and fees on initial patents, the
registration of land transactions, land market, and revenues of central and local government;  (iii)
identifying options for restructuring the taxes and fees identifying the implications of each of these options
on land registration and government revenues; (iv) undertake consultations and consensus building among
all stakeholders to identify an agreed structure of land taxes and fees; and (v) a recommend a time-bound
action plan to implement the recommendations.
C. Land Development Process Study
Objective. The study would recommend an action plan for harmonizing the implementation of interim
guidelines for land allocation and would prepare implementation of the proposed National Land Use Act
during the long-term LAM program. The overall goal of the study would be to improve equitability and
efficiency in land-use so as to meet requirements for economic growth and housing, while also meeting the
requirements for sustainable management of natural resources and food security.
Description. Current processes of land allocation and development have: (i) failed to allocate land to its
most productive uses; (ii) resulted in unplanned development of urban and settlement areas; and (iii)
inadequate protection of natural resources, particularly forests. The study would review current interim
guidelines for land use planning and development --- guidelines that have been developed as gap fill
measures while awaiting enactment of the National Land Use Act (NLUA) --- with a view to harmonizing
their implementation in terms of policy and institutional arrangements. The interim guidelines which lack
consistency in design and implementation cover, among other things, land use classification, land
conversion, land zoning, and land use planning. The harmonization of these guidelines would be expected
to overcome current constraints to the allocation of land, to its most efficient use, orderly development of
urban areas and settlements, food security and sustainable management of natural resources. In addition to
-24 -



studying the harnonization of interim guidelines for land allocation and use, the study would support the
preparation of a program to implement, under the long-term LAM program, the draft NLUA once enacted.
Deliverables. (i) prepare a flow chart showing processes, approvals and actions required for each of the
reclassification of agricultural to non-agricultural land, and sub-dividing of urban land; (ii) develop options
for streamlined procedures for land re-classification; (iii) develop consensus among the stakeholders on
changes to existing interim guidelines and institutional mechanisms for their implementation; and (iii)
prepare a time-bound action plan to implement the recommendations.
D. Demarcation of Forest Boundaries Policy Study
Forest Boundary Delineation Study
Objectives. The study would develop a policy framework for forest boundaries demarcation, which ensures
the legal rights of forest occupants and continued access to forest resources.
Description. The proposed study would have three main components: (i) review the legal framework for
the legal rights of forest occupants and their access to forest resources; (ii) practice and procedures to
implement these legal regulations; and (iii) prepare a short policy framework for forest line demarcation
which ensures that the demarcation of forest boundaries does not cause negative impact on those living
inside the forests.
Deliverables. A policy framework for forest boundaries demarcation (a few pages), which ensures the
legal rights of forest occupants and continued access to forest resources.
E. Fragmented Land Laws and Regulations
Objectives. The study would aim to recommend changes in the existing land laws and regulations with a
view to rationalize and consolidate them so as to avoid overlap and inconsistency in their effects and
implementation. The overall objective is to lay the legal foundation in land policy, management, and
administration consistent with the principles of good governance, efficiency and equity.
Description. The study would support the review of existing land laws and regulations. Currently, there is
an abundance of laws governing the administration of land in the Philippines, especially relating to A&D
land. The laws are administered by different agencies. Many of these laws, introduced over a long period
of time, are in conflict, due to subsequent amendments, with existing legislation. Operating an efficient and
equitable land administration system under this framework has been difficult and has resulted in long
delays in adjudication and registration of land rights, and in a considerable jurisdictional overlap and
duplication of functions. There is also confusion in the mind of the community concerning agency
jurisdiction and uncertainty as to which agency to consult when a particular action is required. The review
of the existing land laws and regulation would be carried out in close collaboration with all agencies
participating.
Deliverables. Recommendations for review and possible consolidation of existing laws and regulations
will be presented in a report.
- 25 -



F. Institutional Structure for Land Administration Study
Objectives. The study would select the findings and results of the project's testing and learning activities
with a view to generating an institutional structure that would underpin the implementation of the long-term
LAM program.
Description. A major weakness in land administration and management has been the proliferation and
fragmentation of organizations in the land sector whose operations have been inadequately coordinated.
Under the proposed project, there would be a testing of organizational arrangements centered around the
one-stop-shop concept in the administration of the two prototypes and in the review of the role of courts in
the registration of land. Results from the tests would be evaluated and used as a basis by the Government to
approve an organizational structure that would support the efficient implementation of the long-term LAM
program.
Deliverables. (i) documentation of the results of the testing and learning including evaluation of the results
and recommendations for the new structure; (ii) consensus on a new organizational structure; and (iii) a
time-bound action plan to implement the recommendations.
Project Component 2 - US$4.50 million
Prototypes
The component would include two prototypes to test innovative new solutions to problems currently
confronting the land administration and management system of the Philippines as identified in the various
studies conducted on the land sector issues. The two prototypes are the core component of the Project. The
outcomes of these two prototypes will provide invaluable information and allow the development of
appropriate implementation strategies for the subsequent phase of the Program.
PROTOTYPE 1: (Land Administration and Titling Prototype -- Leyte)
The DENR, DAR and LRA are primarily involved in land titling and administration, each operating
within its own policy and regulatory framework. Consequently, there is no mechanism to avoid outstanding
issues and conflicts and all of these entities have the independent ability to award rights to land. Existing
land record management systems are inefficient and incomplete with records destroyed through war, theft
fire, flood or misplaced during relocation. There are no comprehensive record inventories. No agency has a
complete updated set of cadastral maps, whereby the land tenure picture of the Philippines can be
described. Each agency only maintains a portion of the overall comprehensive cadastral map. This has led
to abuses in the producing of titles; a substantial part of them are forged and duplicated. Comprehensive
mapping programs in DENR through cadastral surveys have been significantly reduced in recent years.
Judicial titling through the courts has become slow and expensive and cadastral proceedings that were
introduced for expediency and economy have failed to deliver the necessary improvements. Furthermore,
there is evidence, confirmed in field units and in discussions with community and NGO groups, that the
high initial registration cost for issuing titles is a major factor which keeps many poor families from
acquiring titles for their land.
- 26 -



This prototype would focus on: (i) testing institutional collaboration in land administration in an improved
service-oriented environment; (ii) streamlining procedures for issuing titles to privately-claimed A&D land;
(iii) testing the existing legal framework and its suitability to undertake an accelerated program of land
titling and administration; (iv) assessing the response from the stakeholders of accelerated programs of land
adjudication; (v) evaluating the capability and capacity of the private sector on surveying and mapping;
(vi) evaluating different technologies such as photomapping, high resolution satellite images, GPS in
systematic adjudication process; (vii) introducing cadastral maps to RODs; and (ix) increasing community
awareness of the benefits of land titles.
The area selected for the prototype is in the province of Leyte. An area approximating 68,065 ha in extent,
and covering 6 rural municipalities. It is estimated that total A&D lands are 57,190 ha, of which about
11,155 ha is already titled. The selected area includes about 10,344 ha of forest land and about 15,114 ha
of lands, subject to the CARP program. Certificates of Land Ownership Award (CLOA) have been issued
over 7,144 ha, with an estimate 6,108 ha remaining. The estimated population in the prototype area is
145,320 in about 36,911 households.
A one-stop-shop (OSS) of land administration would be established by administrative arrangements
(through a Memoranda of Agreements (MOA) at the local government level) in Palo City. The purpose of
the MOAs would be to facilitate and expedite coordination among the different agencies responsible for
land adjudication and issuance of titles (to be physically located in one building under the prototype) to all
the eligible land owners in the prototype area (estimated around 30,000, mostly in rural areas), verify the
accuracy of titles, already issued, and produce large scale cadastral maps showing all land parcels and
parcel numbers to cover the entire prototype area. All of the above would be done within the one-stop-shop
by the various responsible agencies physically located therein, and in accordance with the legal framework
enforceable at the time adjudication and land titling is done. An overview of the land titling process is
described in Annex 2.1. In the process, several technologies and approaches will be tested and evaluated.
The project would finance the cost of building/renovating of the one-stop-shop and the PIO, and
the procurement of office equipment and fumiture. The project would also finance the development cost of
title production, including aerial photography, surveying, cadastral mapping, the adjudication process
(including allowances to government staff, salary, and allowances of contracted staff and other operational
costs), and title production.
PROTOTYPE 2: (Title Reconstruction and Record Management Prototype -- Quezon City)
The prototype would support the improvement of land records management and the reconstruction of titles
and cadastral survey maps.
There are many agencies involved in the land administration and management system of the Philippines and
each maintains a large set of records and maps to support its operations. The management of these records
has been influenced by different factors over time, particularly the Spanish and American administrations,
the Second World War and the decentralization of functions and records from head offices to regional
operations. The majority of the land records held by the various land-related agencies in the Philippines is
paper-based, comprising various of files, indexes, maps and plans. Due to budgetary constraints over the
years and the generally low priority assigned to the management of the land records, most of the land
records are stored in very poor physical conditions, thus at risk of environmental and vermin damage.
The selected site for this prototype is 5 barangays in District 2 in Quezon City: Bangang, Silangan,
Batasan Hills, Commonwealth, Holy Spirit and Patayas. The Quezon City Register of Deeds was destroyed
-27 -



by fire in 1988. Although there has been a mass re-constitution program since 1988, only about 121,400 of
the 300,000 previously registered titles have been reconstituted. The area also has a high incidence of fake
or duplicate titles, an active land market (about 120 transactions per day), and a high incidence of
litigation.
Prototype 2 would conduct a comprehensive inventory of records and undertake a program of title
validation and security in the prototype area with the objective to eliminate duplicate and fake titles. It
would also validate and consolidate maps and plans and develop new processes for the reconstitution of
lost/destroyed records and titles, and upgrade records management procedures and physical storage
facilities. The prototype will also test the interface with existing Government land administration initiatives
in other agencies (DENR, DAR-Swedesurvey, DOF-RPTA).
Another outcome of the prototype would be the development and implementation of Land
Information Management protocols and policies in relation to: (i) data storage and sharing; (ii) access to
land-related data; (iii) security; and (iv) archiving of data.
The component would finance the renovation of the one-stop-shop and the PIO (located next to
Quezon City ROD located in the City Hall), procurement of equipment and fumiture, reconstitution of
titles and cadastral and survey maps; the production of large scale, photo-backed cadastral maps showing
all land parcels in the prototype area, together with parcel numbers; and the development of modem record
management system.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.00 million
Institutional Development
This component will provide support to the LAM Project Management Office to manage and
monitor the project. It would include three sub-components: (i) project management including technical
assistance; (ii) education and training; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation.
(i) Project Management. A Project Management Office (PMO) would be established to provide
the management and control essential to ensuring the delivery of the outputs required from the two
prototypes and activities from the policy studies. The project management office would be supported by
international and local technical assistance oriented towards supporting the project director on: (i) project
management and monitoring; (ii) technical aspects of project implementation; and (iii) the learning and
innovation aspects of the Project. An outline of the TORs of the technical assistance is included in Annex
2B.
(ii) Education and Training. The project would support domestic training in the areas of
management, surveying and mapping land administration, and land information system. The project also
would support focused study tours and overseas training opportunities,  designed to enhance the
understanding of the issues involved in modern land administration and management and to identify
potential institutional arrangements for future implementation.
(iii) Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would be designed to monitor development
impact, testing and learning aspects of the project and implementation progress. A monitoring and
evaluation system will be developed to measure the performance indicators shown in Annex I of this
document, which are based on the testing assumptions in project design. Summary progress reports will be
submitted to IACC, and a full progress report will be submitted to IACC, Bank and AusAID each quarter.
This component will include a development impact study (socio-economic study) and two rounds of social
-28 -



assessment in prototype areas.
The project would finance the incremental government costs, including contractual staff,
consultants and allowances, and other operational costs. The project would also finance international and
local training and international study tours. The project would also finance the studies and the development
of a computerized monitoring and evaluation system.
Project Component 4 - US$0.30 million
Phase II Preparation
This component would support the preparation of the long-term program based on the output and
the experience of this project. This component will be initiated by Month 20 of project implementation. By
then, experience from the on-going project will provide adequate knowledge of the Government's
commitment to policy and institutional reform, test the institutional anrangements for prototype 1 and 2,
and test the different alternatives and technical approaches. Initiating project preparation at this time will
enable the Government to make a decision, on whether to go forward for the long-term program and the
donors to support the program. It will also ensure that there is no gap between the end of this project and
the start of the long-term program.
The project would finance the consultants' services to evaluate the outcome of this project and
prepare phase II of the project. Furthermore, the project would finance the expenses of the social
assessment, workshops and stakeholder consultations.
-29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
Policy Studies                                            0.10         0.38          0.48
Prototypes                                                3.81         0.30          4.11
Institutional Development                                 1.38         3.32          4.70
Preparation of the Long-Term Program                      0.09         0.19          0.28
Total Baseline Cost                                       5.38         4.19          9.57
Physical Contingencies                                   0.10         0.20         0.30
Price Contingencies                                      0.20         0.23          0.43
Total Project Costs              5.68         4.62         10.30
Front-end fee                    0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required              5.68          4.67        10.35
Goods                                                       0.63          0.06         0.69
Works                                                       1.60          0.40         2.00
Services and Training                                       1.10          3.70         4.80
Titles Development                                          0.85          0.36         1.21
Incremental Operating Cost                                  1.50          0.10         1.60
Total Project Costs     5.68          4.62         10.30
Front-end fee                    0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required      5.68          4.67        10.35
- 30 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
A. Description of Expected Benefits
1.    While the proposed project is a LIL that focuses on testing and learning, its prototypes would
generate some outputs and related benefits in the prototype areas. The benefits would flow from the
incremental land titles that will be issued under the prototypes, and the improved confidence and efficiency
in the land registration system (with a related reduction in transaction costs).
2.    Confidence in the land registration system would arise from the prototypes which would: (i) test
and introduce new approaches to improving efficiency in land administration, thereby laying the foundation
for increased efficiency in land registration; and (ii) improve the management and quality of land records,
thereby restoring confidence in the land registration system. Improvements in confidence and efficiency in
the land registration system would positively affect about 50,000 existing land titles under the second pilot
which focuses on improving the quality of land records. In addition, the first protoype would produce
about 50,000 new land titles and improve efficiency in the administration of another 10,000 existing titles.
A combination of improved confidence and efficiency together with the new land ditles would provide to
registered landholders investment incentives and access to cheaper and longer term institutional credit for
investment. Consequently, the prototypes would generate benefits in the way of increased investment and
land productivity associated with increased land tenure security and access to credit. This would lead to
increased farm incomes (in rural areas) and rising land values in both rural and urban areas.
3.    Other Benefits from the LIL. The LIL would provide additional benefits in the way of: (i)
facilitating financial sector development through the recovery in confidence in the land registration system
and in the use of land as collateral; (ii) coordinated institutional support for the comprehensive agrarian
reform program (CARP), thereby speeding up the delivery of registered land titles to the beneficiaries of
land reform; (iii) improvement in the management of natural resources through improving the technology of
delineating and marking forestry boundaries; (iv) improvements in the valuation framework which would
enhance fairness and equity in taxation and compensation systems for land, as well as enhancing risk
analysis for collateral-based lending and land-related investment decisions in the private sector; and (v)
improving the quality of land records which would increase the benefits accruing from the Build, Own and
Operate (BOO) computerization initiative being funded separately.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
4.    An attempt has been made to undertake a cost-benefit analysis for the project. Due to lack of land
titling impact studies in the Philippines (except for an urban area impact study carried out for Davao city),
we will use Thailand data on titling costs and impact to estimate the project's rates of return to investment
in land administration and titling.
5.    For the rural sector, economic benefits from land titling are estimated from the titling impact on
farm productivity and incomes. For the urban areas, economic benefits from land titling are based on the
impact of titling on land values (and annual rents), reflecting a future net income stream from land titling.
For the Philippines, the impact of land titling in urban areas is based on estimates made by Emmanuel
Jimenez (1982) for Davao City in his study entitled: "The value of squatter dwellings in developing
countries, in Economic Development and Cultural Change, 30 (4): 739-52. He found that land titling
increased unit housing prices by 58% (compared to untitled land) and housing rent by about 18%.
- 31 -



6.     Based on the above assumptions on benefits and costs, the project is estimated to generate net
benefits with a net present value (NPV) of US$5.79 million and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 24%
(Table 1). These results indicate that the project is economically profitable for the country to invest in.
Moreover, the benefits from the project are underestimated in so far as we have excluded the expected
benefits associated with the BOO, other unquantifiable benefits and the benefits, which accrue to more than
one sector.
Main Assumptions:
7.     Key data and assumptions derived from Thailand are, as follows:
(a) land titling would increase agricultural crop yields by 6.6 percent (compared to untitled land), which
would translate into an increase in net farm income of 10%;
(b) average net farm income US$218 per hectare (ha), for a cropping pattern representing an average for
Thailand; and
(c) average cost per title would be US$36 (direct costs plus 50% of overhead costs) or US$39/ha .
8.     Assumptions for the Philippines are, as follows:
(a) under LAM project: (i) the prototype on titling would issue 50,000 new titles, in addition to 10,000
existing ones in a rural area (assumed to be 1 ha per parcel); and (ii) the prototype's support for
improvement of the quality of land records and of the registration system would cover about 50,000 land
titles in urban areas;
(b) economic benefits would be realized gradually with benefits starting 1 year after issuing titles and full
benefits being reached after 10 years of titling;
(c) it is assumed that reconstruction of land records would produce a beneficial impact equivalent to 20
percent of the impact of land titling; and
(d) land titling would increase urban housing rent by 18 percent, according to a study in Davao City by
Jimenez (1982), and we assume an average rent of US$ 600 per year for all urban areas.
9.     Other Assumptions:
(a) improvements in land records and administration (reconstruction of titles) for the existing stock of titles
would cost less than one- third of the cost of titling (US$10/title) and generate about 20% of the benefits
that a new title would generate; and
(b) titling impacts are based on a comparison of titled areas with similar but untitled areas.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
10.    Sensitivity analysis has been carried out to determine the robustness of the estimates of economic
benefits and returns given a number of assumptions. The sensitivity analyses and their results, are as
follows:
(a) A 50% decrease in the benefits of new land titles (due to less than expected impacts of the project on
- 32 -



access to credit and farm productivity) reduces the NPV to US$1.33 million and the ERR to 13%;
(b) A 50% decrease in the benefits from reconstruction of existing land titles (due to less than expected
improvement in the confidence in the land registration system) reduces NPV to US$ 2.2 million and ERR to
16%; and
(c) A 50% increase in the investment costs (due to delays in project start-up and/or slow adoption of
innovations in technology and adjudication) reduces NPV to US$4.68 million and ERR to 19%.
11.   The results of sensitivity analysis indicate that the conclusions from the economic analysis are
robust even when major changes in assumptions take place.
- 33 -



6.     Based on the above assumptions on benefits and costs, the project is estimated to generate net
benefits with a net present value (NPV) of US$5.79 million and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 24%
(Table 1). These results indicate that the project is economically profitable for the country to invest in.
Moreover, the benefits from the project are underestimated in so far as we have excluded the expected
benefits associated with the BOO, other unquantifiable benefits and the benefits, which accrue to more than
one sector.
Main Assumptions:
7.     Key data and assumptions derived from Thailand are, as follows:
(a) land titling would increase agricultural crop yields by 6.6 percent (compared to untitled land), which
would translate into an increase in net fann income of 10%;
(b) average net farm income US$218 per hectare (ha), for a cropping pattern representing an average for
Thailand; and
(c) average cost per title would be US$36 (direct costs plus 50% of overhead costs) or US$39/ha.
8.     Assumptions for the Philippines are, as follows:
(a) under LAM project: (i) the prototype on titling would issue 50,000 new titles, in addition to 10,000
existing ones in a rural area (assumed to be I ha per parcel); and (ii) the prototype's support for
improvement of the quality of land records and of the registration system would cover about 50,000 land
titles in urban areas;
(b) economic benefits would be realized gradually with benefits starting I year after issuing titles and full
benefits being reached after 10 years of titling;
(c) it is assumed that reconstruction of land records would produce a beneficial impact equivalent to 20
percent of the impact of land titling; and
(d) land titling would increase urban housing rent by 18 percent, according to a study in Davao City by
Jimenez (1982), and we assume an average rent of US$ 600 per year for all urban areas.
9.     Other Assumptions:
(a) improvements in land records and administration (reconstruction of titles) for the existing stock of titles
would cost less than one- third of the cost of titling (US$10/title) and generate about 20% of the benefits
that a new title would generate; and
(b) titling impacts are based on a comparison of titled areas with similar but untitled areas.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
10.    Sensitivity analysis has been carried out to determine the robustness of the estimates of economic
benefits and returns given a number of assumptions. The sensitivity analyses and their results, are as
follows:
(a) A 50% decrease in the benefits of new land titles (due to less than expected impacts of the project on
- 32 -



access to credit and farm productivity) reduces the NPV to US$1.33 million and the ERR to 13%;
(b) A 50% decrease in the benefits from reconstruction of existing land titles (due to less than expected
improvement in the confidence in the land registration system) reduces NPV to US$ 2.2 million and ERR to
16%; and
(c) A 50% increase in the investment costs (due to delays in project start-up and/or slow adoption of
innovations in technology and adjudication) reduces NPV to US$4.68 million and ERR to 19%.
11.   The results of sensitivity analysis indicate that the conclusions from the economic analysis are
robust even when major changes in assumptions take place.
- 33-



Philippines: Land Administration and Management Project
Table 1: Estimation of the ERR
Unit = US Dollars
No.  Year                 Economic Benefits                                               Economic Costs 11        Net Benefits
Pilot I new  Pilot 1  old Pilot 2   old Benefits from Benefits from Total Benefits
titles    titles      titles     pilot 1/   Pilot 21        4/ Investment 3/ Recurrent 2/   Total
1   2000      10,000      10,000     10,000      26,200     21,600      47,800     590000.0    216,000   725,400   (677,600)
2   2001      30,000      10,000     30,000     139,600    129,600     269,200    1080000.0    504,000  1,425,600  (1,156,400)
3   2002      50,000      10,000     50,000     340,200    324,000     664,200    1080000-0   792,000  1,684,800  (1,020,600)
4   2003      50,000      10,000      50,000    344,600    432,000     776,600                 792,000   712,800     63,800
5   2004      50,000      10,000      50,000    567,000    540,000    1,107,000                792,000   712,800    394,200
6   2005      50,000      10,000      50,000    680,400    648,000    1,328,400                792,000   712,800    615,600
7   2006      50,000      10,000      50,000    793,800    756,000    1,549,800                792,000   712,800    837,000
8   2007      50,000      10,000      50,000    907,200    864,000    1,771,200                792,000   712,800   1,058,400
9   2008      50,000      10,000      50,000   1,020,600    972,000    1,992,600               792,000   712,800   1,279,800
10   2009      50,000      10,000     50,000    1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000              792,000   712,800   1,501,200
11   2010      50,000     10,000      50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
12   2011      50,000     10,000      50,000   1,134,000   1,0B0,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
13   2012      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
14   2013      50,000     10,000      50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
15   2014      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2.214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501.200
16   2015      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
17   2016      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
18   2017      50,000     10,000      50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
19   2018      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
20   2019      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134.000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
21   2020      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
22   2021      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134.000   1.080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1.501,200
23   2022      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
24   2023      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
25   2024      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
26   2025      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
27   2026      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
28   2027      50,000      10,000     50,000   1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000               792,000   712,800   1,501,200
29   2028      50,000      10,000     50,000    1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000              792,000   712,800   1,501,200
30   2029      50,000      10,000     50,000    1,134,000   1,080,000    2,214,000              792,000   712,800   1,501,200
NPV =     5,796,562
ERR =         24%
1/ Standard conversion factor of 0.9 applied to costs.
2/ Recurrent costs are taken as 20 percent of orginal investment costs
3/ Investment costs for new titles are based on an average cost of US$36 per title, and US$10 for reconstructing each old title.
41 Benefits are based on 10% increase in net farm income (per ha) for rural parcels and 18% increase on rent (US$600/year)
- 34 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
1.        The objective of the financial analysis would be to assess whether the net financial benefits
expected from the project are attractive enough for the targeted entities to participate in the project. In
the proposed project, key entities expected to participate in the project are the Government and the
landholders.
2.        Financial Benefits for and Participation by Landholders.  In most countries,
landholders usually want to obtain land titles in order to improve land ownership security and to use
titles as collateral for institutional credit. Both, land ownership security and access to institutional
credit would lead to increased investment, land productivity and incomes. If landholders were to be
charged the full cost of land titling, the decision by a landholder to participate in a land titling scheme
would depend on whether the expected financial returns are higher than the payment for a land title.
Under the normal situation where titles are issued upon request by landholders, who are made to pay
the full cost of the title, the landholders who request a titling service do so with the expectation that the
financial return from acquiring the title would be higher than the cost of the title.
3.        Because of the desire to keep land titling costs low by undertaking land titling in large
volumes village by village (the so-called systematic adjudication), the initial charge for a land title has
to be kept low (lower than the cost of producing a title) to ensure high participation of landholders on a
voluntary basis. It should be set at a level consistent with the affordability of the poorest landholders.
For example, in Thailand, where the land titling program has been successful, landholders are charged
less than US$5/title, compared to the average cost of US$36/title. The difference between US$36 and
US$5 is the subsidy from the Government. The Govermnent of Thailand recovers the subsidy by
charging Registration fees on sub-sequent land registrations. This arrangement has worked well in
Thailand. It is expected that a similar arrangement would be introduced in the Philippines, although a
careful study of the structure and levels of land-related taxes would need to be undertaken with a view
to striking the correct balance between the need to attract people to register land transactions on one
hand and the need for cost recovery and government revenue on the other.
4.        Financial Benefits for and Participation by the Central and Local Governments. It is
expected that the project would generate incremental revenue for the central and local governments
from the following sources. Higher revenues would accrue from: (i) registration fees collected by the
Register of Deeds (RODs); (ii) real property tax collected by LGUs; and (iii) capital gains tax and
stamp duty collected by the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR). The increased revenue would come as
a result of a larger number of land transactions due to: (i) an increase in the proportion of land that is
titled; (ii) improved efficiency in land administration that would make it easier and quicker for
registration of land transactions; and (iii) a revival and invigoration of land markets in rural and urban
areas. Higher revenues would also come as a result of higher land values due to: (i) rising land and
property prices reflecting a higher future net income stream created by land titling benefits; and (ii)
more objective and improved methods of property valuation, which the project would promote. Using
Thailand to illustrate revenue flows, annual revenues from land-related taxes (excluding property
taxes), there they rose nearly 4 times within 10 years of land titling from less than US$300 million in
1984 to more than US$1 billion in 1994. These annual revenues were more than ten (10) times greater
than the recurrent expenditures of Thailand's Department of Lands, which stood at US$87 million in
1997.
- 35 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A): The Project Management Office (PMO) using the procurement
facilities of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) will carry out all
procurement under the project Procurement of civil works and goods will be done using World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised January and
August 1996, and September 1997, and January 1999. Selection of consultants will be done in accordance
with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January
1997 and revised September 1997, and January 1999.
Some of the Philippines' NCB procedures, such as procedures of advertising, eligibility for
participation of foreign contractors, bracketing, the practice of pre-qualification even for small contracts,
and the use of bonds as bid and performance securities, are not acceptable to the Bank; these would be
addressed through a side letter (Representations and Assurances on Procurement to the Loan Agreement)
and the Operations Manual.
Summary of the Assessment of the Agency Procurement Capacity. An assessment of the
procurement capacity of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources was carried out in
accordance with the Office Memorandum from the Manager of OCSPR, dated August 11, 1998. The
assessment involved a review of the procurement policies and procedures adopted and implemented in the
central office involving both foreign and locally-funded projects. The experience in the recently completed
Bank-financed ENR-SECAL was also revisited. The assessment took largely into consideration the Bank's
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for the Philippines. The general findings of the DENR
assessment conformed to those of CPAR.
In general, the laws, rules and regulations relating to procurement being implemented by DENR adhere
to principle of competition and are intended to promote fairness, economy, efficiency and transparency.
However, there are certain rules and regulations, and procedures, which may not fully support fairness,
economy, efficiency and transparency in procurement transactions. Bank-financed projects are not affected
because of waivers in the Government laws, and rules and regulations, which also form part of the Loan
Agreement. The capacity of DENR in relation to this project is average. The main risks concern the lack of
formal, complete and efficient operating procedures, and the lack of qualified staff to cany out effectively
the implementation of procurement for the project.
To mitigate these risks, a series of actions will be undertaken under the project. Among others, an
operating manual will be produced by negotiation to provide clear direction for streamlined bidding and
contracting procedures, and provision of procurement function, including recruitment of Procurement
Specialist, in the PMO to guide and manage the overall procurement process of the project. There is also a
high percentage of contracts, which will be subject to prior review. Further strengthening of DENR's
regular capability and capacity to execute procurement effectively will be pursued through the Bank's
(World Bank Office Manila's) initiatives in providing regular training activities through the Asian Institute
of Management (AIM). AIM will conduct a training needs assessment of a representative sample of
implementing agencies (IAs), including DENR, so as to lay out a curricula, which will meet the various
training needs.
-36 -



a. Works. Works under the project (US$2.04 million) will include a new construction of the Office
of Land Administration in Leyte, renovation of Register of Deeds Office in Quezon City, aerial
photography and ortho mapping and cadastral surveying contracts. The works contracts are expected to be
small (under US$300,000). Therefore, procurement of these works contracts will be done according to
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. A model bid documents for
works under NCB procurement will be agreed upon with the PMO for use in the project.
b. Goods. Goods and equipment (US$0.58 million) to be procured under the Institutional
Development and Prototype Projects components include vehicles, computers, and other office equipment,
and furniture for the project management office and the two prototype offices. There are no single
contracts of goods expected to be greater than US$200,000, therefore procurement under ICB is not
anticipated. Goods estimated to be US$0.31 million will be suitably packaged into lots and procured using
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent and totalling about
US$0.27 million consisting of several small and distinct of the shelf items would be procured according to
national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Shopping should be based on comparing price
quotations from at least three suppliers. Requests for quotations should indicate the description and
quantity of the goods as well as the desired delivery time and place.
c. Consultants Services and Training. About US$4.80 million would be allotted to consultants
services and training. The majority of the contracts, estimated at US$4.08 million, will be financed by
AusAID, according to their own procurement guidelines. This would include provision of technical
assistance in the two prototypes and preparation of subsequent phase, and training. Consultant services,
mostly policy studies, social assessment and individual consultants, financed by the Bank, totalling
US$0.72 million, shall be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 and revised September
1997, and January 1999. Any contract above US$200,000 must be advertised in the Development Business
requesting an Expression of Interest prior to developing a shortlist.
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). The selection of firms would be based on quality-and
cost-based selection (QCBS) procedures using the Bank's Standard Request for Proposal - Selection of
Consultants dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999. This would include various policy studies
amounting to US$0.46 million.
Single Source Selection (SSS). Because of their involvement and knowledge of local issues and
community needs, and to promote participatory approach of the project, consultancy services less than
$30,000 per contract (for a maximum ofUS$60,000 for one NGO hired under this procedure) to be
provided by accredited NGOs, for very small assignments or assignments in remote areas, would be
procured through single source selection. Contracting of NGOs to conduct social assessment, and
community relation services, through single source selection is estimated to cost about US$0.20 million.
Individual Consultants. The PMO would need consultants to perform some of the more complex, more
specialized tasks of the project, such as studies on forest boundary demarcation and land tenure status,
development of a monitoring and evaluation system, design and supervision of 2 buildings, estimated to
cost US$0.06 million. These are individual consultants whose experience and qualifications are the
paramount requirements of the project. The selection of individual consultants would be based on their
qualifications for the assignment (Section V of the Guidelines).
- 37 -



(d) Title Development Cost. About US$1.14 million would be allocated to cover the costs related to
prototype activities in land titling, and land recording and information management. They would be
procured according to normal commercial practice.
(e) Incremental Operating Costs. About US$1.66 million would be allocated to cover the incremental
operating costs related to managing the project. They would be procured according to normal commercial
practice.
Prior review thresholds (Table B): The World Bank will conduct prior review of procurement
documents and actions in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of Appendix I to the
Procurement Guidelines for:
(i) the first works contract to be procured through NCB procedures, all works contracts financed by
the Bank estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract; the first goods contract to be
procured through NCB procedures, all goods contracts financed by the Bank estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract;
(ii) all service contracts financed by the Bank that exceed US$100,000 per contract for firms,
US$50,000 per contract for individuals, and contracts procured using single-source selection, and all terms
of references (TORs) and cost estimates regardless of the value of the consultant's contract; and
(iii) In addition, ex-post reviews in the ratio of one out of five contracts will be conducted regularly by
the Bank's Office in Manila to identify and correct any irregularities.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment Summary
In general, the financial management system of DENR is adequate to satisfy the minimum
requirements of the Bank. There is adequate staffing as well as satisfactory competence of the staff. The
internal control system is fairly adequate with documented policies and procedures. Budgets and
disbursements are well controlled. The accounting system is on a manual basis but is fairly reliable and
relatively timely except on its consolidation. The auditing is done by a constitutional body with acceptable
auditing arrangements.
The financial management system, however, has some weaknesses as follows: a) inadequate control
over long outstanding cash advances/fund transfers; b) lack of periodic reconciliation of physical existence
with recorded accountabilities on property and inventories; c) padded accounts payable; d) delayed
reporting of consolidated accounts; and e) lack of report that link the financials with accomplishments. The
system does not yet have the capacity to produce the Project Management Reports required by the Bank.
To address these weaknesses, a strong PMO Financial Management Unit (PFMU) is to be organized to
compliment the DENR financial management system in the implementation of the project. The PFMU shall
be headed by a Financial Management Specialist. The PFMU shall be lodged with non-regulatory functions
with good internal control. The PFMU shall be responsible for project cost accounting and for the
preparation of project financial reports. A financial management manual, satisfactory to the Bank will be
prepared to guide the financial operations of the project. A computerized financial management information
system for the project shall be developed and installed at the PFMU.
- 38 -



Action Plans
1. The Project's Financial Management Specialist, who shall head the PMO Financial Management Unit,
shall be hired by loan negotiation.
2. The Financial Management Manual shall be prepared before the Project is presented for management
approval.
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Disbursement Arrangements
The proposed project will be disbursed over three years against eligible expenditure categories
presented in Table C.
Special Account - A Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank shall be
opened and maintained in order to facilitate project disbursements. The SA, where the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures under the project will be deposited, shall have the initial allocation of US$250,000 and
a maximum amount of US$450,000. The initial allocations for the Special Account will be increased to the
maximum amount, when the amount disbursed from the loan, totals US$2 million; this is subject to the
Bank's prior approval. Applications to replenish the SA, supported by appropriate documentation, will be
submitted monthly or when the amount withdrawn equals 20 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes
first. The Government of the Philippines (GOP) shall likewise open an account for its counterpart fund
requirements in Pesos.
Funds Flow - Funds from the Bank (loan proceeds) shall flow to the Special Account to be opened and
maintained by the DENR Central Office for the PMO. GOP counterpart funds shall flow to a separate
GOP bank account to be opened and maintained by the DENR Central Office for the PMO. The Bank's
share on eligible expenditures shall either be paid or reimbursed from the Special Account. The GOP's
share in the expenditures shall be paid from the GOP counterpart bank account. Expenditures, other than
those to be paid in the Province of Leyte for Prototype 1, shall be paid by the PMO / DENR Central
Office. Expenditures for Prototype 2 (Title Reconstruction and Records Management) shall be endorsed by
the PIO to the PMO's PFMU for payment.
The GOP shall front-load or release in advance to DENR Region VIII GOP funds to cover an
estimated four-month expenditure requirement for implementing Project Prototype 1 (Land Titling and
Administration) in the Province of Leyte. DENR Region VIII shall open and maintain a separate bank
account where fund releases for Prototype 1 shall be deposited and disbursed. All expenditures for
Prototype 1 shall be endorsed by the PIO to the Finance Division of DENR Region VIII for payment. The
Finance Division of DENR Region VIII shall submit to the PMO, at least once a month, a request for
reimbursements of the Bank's share in the eligible expenditures. The DENR Central Office/PMO shall
reimburse DENR Region VIII for said expenditures for deposit to the DENR Region VIII's bank account
for the project.
Withdrawal of funds - For all contracts for civil works below US$300,000 equivalent, all contracts
for goods below US$100,000 equivalent and all training and consultants' contracts below US$50,000 for
individuals and US$100,000 equivalent for firms, withdrawal applications will be supported by Statement
of Expenditures (SOE). All other withdrawals shall be through a Withdrawal Application (WA) supported
by full documentation and signed contracts.
- 39 -



Guide Document - The maintenance of SAs, preparation of SOEs and WAs and other disbursements
matter shall be guided by the Bank's current Disbursement Handbook.
B. Financial Management Arrangements
Organization - The Finance and Management Service (FMS) of the DENR shall carry out the regular
Government financial management functions in implementing the project at the DENR central level of
fnancial operation. The FMS shall perform the functions of consolidation of the project's budget into
DENR's budget, the cashiering and disbursing, accounting and financial reporting in accordance with the
regular requirements of the Government.
A Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) shall be organized at the PMO to perform project
financial planning, budgeting, financial analysis and monitoring, preparation of loan withdrawal
applications and statement of expenditures (SOEs), and preparation of project financial management
reports. The PFMU shall be headed by a Financial Management Specialist and staffed by a Financial
Analyst and an Accountant. The PFMU shall report directly to the PMO Executive Director.
The Finance Division (FD) of DENR Region VIII shall carry out the financial management functions
in implementing the Prototype I sub-project in the Province of Leyte. The FD shall perform the functions
of monitoring budget allotments and cash releases to the sub-project, cashiering and disbursing, accounting
and financial reporting, including the preparation of Bank Reconciliation Statements and Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs). A support staff for finance shall be provided to the PIO. The support staff shall
prepare, process, and facilitate payment requests and shall assist the FD in preparing SOEs and requests
for reimbursements.
Internal Control - A Financial Management Manual containing the policies, guidelines, and
procedures that are applicable in carrying out the financial management and operation of the project in the
most effective and efficient manner shall be prepared. The Manual shall include policies, guidelines, and
procedures to enhance internal control, particularly in the following areas:
I. Cash advances, fund transfers and accounts payable - There shall be strict compliance to the
requirements of the Commission on Audit (COA) requirements on cash advances, fund transfers,
and accounts payable. These shall be monitored and controlled through the regular aging of cash
advances, liquidations of fund transfers and accounts payable. Reports on the aging of cash
advances, liquidations of funds transfers and, aging of accounts payable should be submitted to the
Bank no later than two calendar weeks after each quarter.
2. Inventory and Fixed Assets - An annual physical count of inventories and assets under the project
shall be required, together with a reconciliation of the records of the Accounting unit and the
Property unit, both at the DENR Central Office/PMO and at the DENR Region VIII. Reports on
the physical count and its reconciliation with the records of the Accounting and Property units
should be submitted to the PMO no later than the end of the following quarter.
Accounting and Reporting - Until the computerized database Financial Management Information
System (FMIS) that is being developed for the DENR is completed and implemented, the manual
accounting system, enhanced with the use of word processing and spreadsheet software, shall be used
particularly to generate Project Management Reports (PMRs) and other financial management reports.
- 40 -



The following shall be the reporting arrangement: after six months from effectiveness, the Simplified
Project Management Reports (SPMRs) shall be prepared, and after one year of effectiveness, consideration
shall be made to shift to PMR-based disbursements on a quarterly basis. The SPMRs shall consist of the
following:
C. Financial Reports:
1. Balance Sheet - A statement of resources of the project.
2. Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds - A report on the receipt and uses of funds by project
components and by activities.
3. Project Cash Forecast - A cash planning tool for withdrawal of funds as well as cash programming
and scheduling.
4. Project Cash Withdrawals - An accounting of disbursements, cash balances and cash requirements.
5. SA Statement - A report on the SA balance, its movement and reconciliation with Bank's and
Borrower's records.
D. Progress Reports:
1. Output Monitoring Report - A report by project activities on the physical accomplishment linked to
financials.
E. Procurement Management Reports
1. Procurement Process Monitoring Reports (Goods and Works and Consultants' Services) - A report on
the status of the procurement pipeline.
2. Procurement Contract Expenditures Report (Goods & Works, and Consultants' Services) - A report on
the status of ongoing contracts.
Audit Arrangements - The balance sheet, sources and uses of funds, SA and SOE shall be audited by
Auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Auditor shall be required to issue an Audit Report with separate
opinions on the reports audited. The Auditor shall also be required to submit a report on the project's
financial management system with recommendations for improvement. All of the foregoing reports shall be
submitted on or before 6 months after the end of the project's fiscal year. The audit shall be conducted in
accordance with the Bank's Audit Manual.
-41 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1X~WRW  1          NB                         N  - '11 !F.  Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           2.04          0.00          0.00         2.04
(0.00)        (1.84)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.84)
2. Goods                          0.00           0.31          0.27          0.00         0.58
(0.00)        (0.28)        (0.24)        (0.00)       (0.52)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00          0.72          4.08         4.80
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.72)        (0.00)        (0.72)
4. Titles Development Cost        0.00           0.00          1.14          0.00          1.14
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.68)        (0.00)       (0.68)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Incremental Operating          0.00           0.00          1.66          0.00          1.66
Costs                            (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)        (1.00)
Total                          0.00           2.35          3.79          4.08         10.22
__________    _______________    (0.00)        (2.12)         (2.64)        (0.00)       (4.76)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fmanced by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project.
-42 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
C*.suttsnt                      ~~~SleionmA   Method
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                     ' .B. .  -     ..-. 
04e_pndt        QCBS      QBS       SFB       LCS        coQ      Oter    N.B.P.  Total lost
A. Firms            0.46      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.20      4.08      4.74
(0.46)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.66)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.06      0.00      0.06
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.06)    (0o.0)    (0.06)
Total   0.46      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.26      4.08      4.80
(0.46)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.26)    (0.00)    (0.72)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 43 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                  Less than $300,000            NCB              All Contracts more than
$100,000 (1.75)
_____________________   _First NCB  Contract (0.05)
2. Goods                  Less than $200,000            NCB              All Contracts more than
$100,000 (0.24)
First NCB Contract (0.07)
Less than $50,000           Shopping                 None
3. ServicesConsultants
Services and Training
Individual              Less than $50,000   Qualifications Comparison        None
More than $50,000    Qualifications Comparison        0.05
Finns                   Less than $30,000     Single Source (NGOs)          All (0.20)
Less than $1 00,000          QCBS                     None
More thianl $100,000          QCBS                   All (0.46)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$2.82 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 44 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Works                                   1.66                          90
2. Goods                                   0.47           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and
90% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultants Services and Training       0.65                          100
4. Incremental Operating Cost              0.90                          65
5. Titles Development Costs                0.61                          65
Unallocated                                0.45
Total Project Costs                        4.74
Front-end fee         0.05                          100
Total                                      4.79
Special account:
-45 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
Poct$ct,edu0;fiSleSUAS\.f-Sat0                     Planned                      ActualaV00fidiV0j)TUSS d? i ; fff SX  070a**z000fai f 00tX V0ISS000
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              05/12/99                     08/13/99
Appraisal mission departure                      02/13/2000                   03/10/2000
Negotiations                                     04/15/2000                   07/20/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    11/30/2000
Prepared by:
The goveniment of the Philippines under the leadership of the Interagency Coordinating Committee.
Preparation assistance:
Hatch (former BHP Engineering), fnanced by a consultant trust fund of US$195,000 from AusAID).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Wael Zakout                       Task Team Leader
Frank Byamugisha                  Principal Operations Officer (Land Policy & Administration)
Maria Theresa Quinones            Participation Officer
Mary Judd                         Anthropologist
Ray Holmes                        Land Administration Specialist
Richard Anson                     Rural Development Specialist
Dominic Aumentado                 Procurement Officer
Hung Kim Phung                    Financial Management/Disbursement Specialist
Carlos Escudero                   Legal Counsel
John Bruce                        Legal Counsel
Ver Lara                          Financial Management
Elisabeth Gelos                   Team Assistant
Glenn Morgan                      Environmental Specialist
Joseph Reyes                      Financial Management Specialist
Brenda Phillips                   Program Assistant
Patria Morente                     Team Assistant
-46 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Preparation Report
2. Government submission to the ICC
3. Social Assessment TOR
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-47 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P037079       1997 Philippines              AGRARIAN REFORM COMM                             50.00       0.00       0.00     28.86      4.76       0.00
P056524       1999 Philippines              BANKIG SYS REF (FSAL                            300.00       0.00       0.00    200.00    200.00       0.00
P004595       1998 Philippines              COMMUNITY BASED RESO                             50.00       0.00       0.00     47.79      15.89      0.00
P039019       2000 Philippines              FIRST NATL ROADS IMPROV./MGNT. PROJECT           150.00      0.00       0.00    148.50      2.17       0.00
P004589       1993 Philippines              IRRIG OPER SUPP 11                               51.30       00.        0.00      7.69      7.69       2.48
P058842       2000 Philippines              MINDANAO RURAL DEV                               27.50       0.00      000       26.13      0.29       0.00
P004566       1998 Philippines              PH-EARLYCHILDDEV.                                 19.00      000        0.00     17.22      5.89       0.00
P065113       2000 Philippines              PH-SOCIAL EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT                 100.00      0.00       0.00     83.02      13.98      0.00
P004602       1997 Philippines              PROJECT                                          113.40      0.00      20.10     86.91     69.58       0.00
P004568       1993 Philippines              PH-THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION                     0.00      70.00      20.16     21.43     41.87       4.72
P004567       1995 Philippines              PH-URBAN HEALTH & NUTRMON                         18.00      0.00       4.30      6.44       7.14      0.00
P048588       1999 Philippines              PH-WOMENS HEALTH & SAFE MOTHERHOOD               100.00      0.00       0.00     96.50       1.97      0.00
P039022       1999 Philippines              PHIL-LGU FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT         23.30       0.00       0.00     20.83      3.93       0.00
P004611       1996 Philippines              PHIL-LGU URBAN WATER & SANITATION PROJ           57.00       0.00       9.00     46.61      52.27      7.55
P004592       1992 Philippines              PHIL-MANILA SEWERAGE PROJECT II                  68.00       0.00       0.00     14.83      14.83     10.20
P004576       1998 Philippines              PHIL-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III           38.60       0.00       0.00     37.75      41.52      1.98
P004614       1996 Philippines              PHIL-WATER DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT         150.00      0.00       0.00     15.22      -3.11      0.00
P057598       1999 Philippines              RURAL FINANCE II                                 150.00      0.00       0.00    123.10      48.10      0.00
P040981       1997 Philippines              RURAL FINANCE III                                60.00       0.00       0.00     55.91      55.91      3.55
P051386       1998 Philippines              SECOND SUBIC BAY                                  10.00      0.00       0.00      2.49       1.16      0.00
P004571       1996 Philippines              SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND                              250.00       0.00      45.52    106.36      98.30      3.19
P004613       1997 Philippines              TRANS GRID REINFORCE                              58.00      000        7.27     38.36      3430      -1.68
WATER RESOURCES DEVE
Total:    1844.10       70.00      106.35    1231.95    718.44     31.99
-48 -



PHILIPPINES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1980/82/89/90/94/95  AACT                         0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00
1996               All Asia Growth                0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00     0.00    0.00
1996               All Asia Manager               0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00
1996               All Asia Venture               0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1990               Avantex Mill                   5.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.44    0.00    0.00    0.00
BPI Philippines               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
0/97/98            Bataan P/E                    30.00    0.00   10.00  138.00   30.00    0.00    10.00  117.25
1997               Drysdale Food                 15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    9.60    0.00    0.00    6.40
1998               General Milling                0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00
1979/90            H&Q PV III                     0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.74    0.00    0.00
1998               H&QPV-I                        0.00    0.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.61     0.00    0.00
1989               H&QPV-II                       0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1993               MERALCO                        3.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1967/88            Mariwasa                      11.92    0.00    3.00    0.00   11.92    0.00     3.00    0.00
1970/72/00         Mindanao Power                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94            PLDT                           1.79    0.00    0.00    2.39    1.79    0.00    0.00    2.39
1970/86/88/89      Pagbilao                      42.00   10.00    0.00    6.20   42.00   10.00    0.00    6.20
1993               Pryce Gases                   10.00    0.00    3.00    5.00   10.00    0.00     3.00    5.00
1998               Sual Power                    30.00   17.50    0.00  196.00   30.00   17.50    0.00  196.00
1995               TRP                           0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1999               UPPC                          30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Union Cement                  2.10    5.63    0.00    1.50    2.10    5.63      0.00    1.50
1992               Walden Mgmt                    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05     0.00    0.00
1994               Walden Ventures                0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.75     0.00    0.00
1994
Total Portfolio:       182.04   52.92   16.00  359.09  176.64   49.16    16.00  334.74
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              Asian Hospital                 14000.00     0.00      0.00   5000.00
1999              Cepalco                       16000.00   6000.00      0.00      0.00
1998              Far East Bank 11                  0.00      0.00      0.00  15000.00
2000              LTO Project                   12000.00   8000.00      0.00  20000.00
1997              MAGSAYSAY LINES                8000.00      0.00   3000.00  26500.00
2000              MEP                               0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997              PT&T                          30000.00      0.00   5000.00  30000.00
2000              PlantersBank                  15000.00   9366.58      0.00      0.00
2000              ePlanters                         0.00      0.00    250.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     95000.00  23366.58   8250.00  96500.00
-49 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PHILIPPINES: Land Administration and Management Project
East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               As5a &   middl*.
Philiaoineo    Paciflc  income        Development diamond'
1999
Pooulation. mid-vear mimllions)                         76.8      1.837     2.094                   Life expectancy
GNP oer caoits (Atlas method. US$)                     1.020      1 000     1 200
GNP (Atlas method. USS b/i/ions)                        78,0      1 833     2 513
Averave annual arowth. 1993-99
Ponulation f%)                                           2.2        1,2        1.1
I ahor forr(1                                            2 7        1 3        1 7     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate llatest vear available. 1993-99)                                  capita                         PnrnllmAnt
Pnvertv f( of oocultfont below nationat oovertv line)     37
Urban oooulation /% of total oooulatlon)                  58         34        43
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                          69         69        69
Infant mortalitv (Dot 1.000 live birthrs)                 32         35        33
Child malnutrition (% of chfldren under 5)                30         22        15                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of oooulation)         83         84        86
illiteracv (% of Dooulation aoe 15+)                       5         15        16
G.rn,s nrimnqrv enrnllment f( of schooP-aoe oooub?aiont  117        119       114               Phiiippines
Male                                                             121        114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   .        121       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999                                        ___
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                             27.4     42.6       65 5       76.6
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  33.2     21,8       20.2       18. 
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP              21.6     28.5       51.9       51.2                      Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                     28.1     198        13.6       19.6
Gross national savirnos/GDP                    29.7     21 1       16fi       25,11
Current account balance/GOP                    -5 5      -3.4       7.7       14.7     Domestic
Interest oavments/GDP                           1 8      3.9        3.0        2,5                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 48 4     67.2       73.0       68.2     Savings
Tntxat debt sAryvicfi/xnnrts                   24 ft    25 9       1 a       13 tt
Present value of debt/GDP                         -869.2
Present value of debt/exoorts                                      90.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowthl                                                                      -
GDP                                   0.8       3,0     *0.8        3.2        4 3               PhHippines
GNP oer caoita                       -2.0       1.3     .2.0        1.3        2.3               Lower-middie-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services         4,1       7z8    -21.0        3.6        9 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999       Growth of investment and GDP1%)
(96 of GDP)
Aoriculture                                    27.4     22.7       17.4       17.7     20
Industrv                                       37.0     34 9       31.3       30.3     ,_
Manufacturina                                25.1      24.9       21.8      21.5      o
Services                                       35.6     42 4       51 3       52.0    -10      94   a9s59    97
Private consumotion                            62.5     70.6       73.1       67 4     -20
General aovernment consumDtion                  9.4       9.5      13.2       12 9               -GD0 0              GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                  26.6     30.3       58.5       50 2
(averaae annual crowthJ                    1979-89  1989-99        1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
Anricijlttire.                                  n 9       1 4       7 3        6 2     20
Industrv                                       -1.2      3.0       -21         0-3    10
Manufacturina                                -0.3       2 7       -1.1       1 6
Services                                        2.6       3.8        3.5       41       o
Private consumotion                             1.9      3.9        6 9        0.4    -10      94   95    9      97   99
General oavernment consumDtion                 -0.2      3.5       -19         5 3                                   I
Gross domestic investment                      -4.1      3.5      -16.3       -2 9    -20
Imoorts of noods and services                   2.0      8 9      -14 7       -2 8                  Exports   -'e-Imports
Gross national oroduct                          0.6      3.7        0.2        3.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
he inromnlete
- 50 -



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              11979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           15
Consumer prices                                  ..    12.2        9.8       6.686
Implicit GDP deflator                         14.8      9.0       11.3       8.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                  ..    16.5       26.9      25.6             94    95   96   97   98    99
Current budget balance                           .       1.0       4.5       2.7                 GDP deflator        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -2.1        -0.9      -2.7
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1979     1989      1998      1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   7,821      29,496    35,081     40,W0
Coconut oil                                           377
Sugar                                          ..      89          ..       ..    30,090
Manufactures                                   ..   5,192    25,866    31,097      20.000
Total imports (cif)                              ..  10,419    31,848    36,276
Food                                           ..    521       1,774     1.982     10,000
Fuel and energy                                ..   1,397      2,148     3,395
Capital goods                                  ..   2,424    12,818    14,555          o
93  94  95  96  97   9    99
Exoort orice index (1995=f00)                   ..       88
Imnort onrir index (199g5100)                           8R                                       *Exports      S imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..     103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS millions)                                1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                5,678   10,674    43,413    47,886      15
Imports of goods and services                7,305   11.845    42,302    41,179                                           _
Resource balance                             .1,627   -1,171     1,111     6,707
Net income                                    -223   -1,332      3.530     4,104      s
Net current transfers                          355    1,045       435       481
Current account balance                     -1,495   -1,458      5,076    11,292        I a     a96  97   98  99
Financing items (net)                        1,811    1,756     -3,717    -7,351     -
Changes in net reserves                       -316     -300     -1,359    -3,941      1l
Memo:
Resprves incli,dinn nold tUSS millions)                         in fiR4    14.9RR
Conversion rate (DEC. localVUSSJ               7.4     21.7       40.9      39.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
fuss millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        13,282   28,653    47,817    52,212
IBRD                                        731    3,492       4,311    4,040                          A: 4,311
IDA                                           32      102       205       206              G: 7,185     :         :205
Total debt service                           1,584    3,244      5,166     6,026                                  c: 1,5f8
IBRO                                          86      536       654       642                                     D:3,456
IDA                                            0        2         4         4
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               58      380       184
Official creditors                          427       874         -6      -38                                       12,237
Private creditors                           703      -275       419     3,991                 X             _     E12
Foreign direct investment                      7      563      1,713                   F: 19,955
Portfolio equity                               0      253       454
World Bank program
Commitments                                  273      801       679       128      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               213       465       301       163      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          25      269       389       387      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    188      196        -88     -224
Interest payments                            61       269       268       259
Net transfers                                127      -73       -356     -483
Development Economics                                                                                                   95/0oo
- 51 -






---   -                          -                    ;i                                                                                                             I    |        t           t         r / tj- -c!9) -j$ Mto -w  -1'{ IBRD 61e   6 .
~r3t4~7 f
@   ;2],1   5   S;  1  ffi  X  :  >S<0 ; g o { / - : $} < i | ;0 $; | ;; t~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~                                                                                                 IM 
4I~~~ ~~ -'--
1W                                                                                                                   ;  -tW0 5* 0j'Sns    t    ;89-i 0f .-    r.,  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                     J
I    ~~~~~~~~~                                4 ~       ~    ~ ~ 1
__                               jd4i ?g ;  i  'i    ig
<                             3     nZivWS   _Z<    si;               gZa4iltfid   iif0"kQis;rI t-lX   ;sisi  -                                                1 N         elJiSt!t
-~~~~  4~~~~ I ~~~~~~           -.1~~~~~~~ ~MAY 2000



