                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 31728-PH

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70340)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.79 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                                 FOR A

                     LAND ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                              June 27, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 2, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (PhP)
                                     PhP 54.58 = US$ 1.00
                                    US$ 0.018 = PhP 1.00

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31




                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AMC      Australian Managing Contractor
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
BOO      Build, Own and Operate
CIM      Cadastral Index Map
DAR      Department of Agrarian Reform
DENR     Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF      Department of Finance
DOJ      Department of Justice
EO       Executive Order
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FP       Free Patent
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GOP      Government of the Philippines
HP       Homestead Patent
IACC     Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
LAA      Land Administration Authority
LAM      Land Administration and Management
LAMP     Land Administration and Management Project
LARA     Land Administration Reform Act
LGU      Local Government Unit
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
LRA      Land Registration Authority
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MSP      Miscellaneous Sales Patent
NEDA     National Economic and Development Authority
NLRMS    National Land Records Management Strategy
NPV      Net Present Value
NTRC     National Tax Research Center
OSS      One-Stop-Shop
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PIO      Project Implementation Office
PMO      Project Management Office
QAP      Quality Assurance Panel

ROD     Registry of Deeds
SPIS    Survey Plan Inventory System
TA      Technical Assistance/Adviser
TCT     Transfer Certificate of Title
TF      Task Force (replacing the IACC)
TWG     Technical Working Group




                                Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                             Country Director    Joachim von Amsberg, EACPF
                               Sector Director   Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Keith Clifford Bell, EASRD

                                        PHILIPPINES
                        Land Administration and Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P066069                                                  Project Name: Land Administration and Management
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Keith Clifford Bell                                     TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Land Administration and Management Project               L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70340
   Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (73%); Central government
                            administration (27%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Rural markets (S);
                            Personal and property rights (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/13/1999                                     Effective: 01/09/2001                01/09/2001
     Appraisal: 03/09/2000                                         MTR: 02/20/2003                  02/20/2003
      Approval: 09/26/2000                                      Closing: 09/30/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF THE PHILIPPINES/DEPT. OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL
                                           RESOURCES
                      Other Partners:      Australian Agency for International Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Joachim von Amsberg                            Vinay K. Bhargava
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Keith Clifford Bell                            Wael Zakout
ICR Primary Author:             Keith Clifford Bell and Surajit
                                Goswami (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Land Administration and Management (LAM) Program is a long-term (possibly 15-20 years)
commitment by the Government of the Philippines (GOP). The overall goal of this Program is to alleviate
poverty and enhance economic growth by improving land tenure security and land market efficiency in
rural and urban areas through the development of a land titling and administration system based on clear,
transparent, coherent, and consistent policies and laws and supported by an appropriate institutional
structure.

The Land Administration and Management Project (LAMP), supported by the Bank's Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL), was the first step towards the implementation of the LAM Program. The
development objectives of the project were:
(i) to assess the viability of the LAM Program; and
(ii) to formalize the institutional arrangements needed to support its development, by testing alternative
     approaches to accelerated programs designed to improve the protection of rights to land, eliminate fake
     titles, and introduce a framework for an equitable system of land valuation.

The project objectives continue to be important for the country/sector and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategies covering the periods 1999-2002 and 2003-2005. The objectives address the GOP's
medium-term goal of socially equitable modernization of agriculture and fisheries from, among other
things, improved access to land tenure, extension services, infrastructure and credit to achieve sustainable
increases in rural income.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the project remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

Assessment of the development objectives: The objectives of the project were clear and achievable. The
objective of formalizing the institutional arrangements, which could be defined as the reformulation of the
land-related legal framework and the reform and/or merger of land administration agencies, was expected
to depend upon the Government's willingness to carry out the reforms. Based on the experience from other
countries, reform was expected to be very challenging, but achievable, given the conservative and vested
interests of the court system, the legal profession and other groups.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had four components including one to support the preparation of the second phase of the
LAMP (called LAMP II). The estimated costs included a physical contingency provision.

Component 1: Land Policy Studies (US$0.50 million, 4.9 percent of projected total costs). The component
was to study and make recommendations on key policy areas of land administration, including: (i) land
development process; (ii) land registration finance and fee structure; (iii) real property valuation
framework; (iv) forest boundary demarcation and operational procedures policy study; (v) fragmented land
laws and regulations framework; and (vi) institutional arrangements for land administration.

Component 2: Prototypes (US$4.50 million, 43.7 percent of projected total costs). The component had
two prototypes: the Land Titling and Administration Prototype and the Record Management Prototype.
The Land Titling and Administration prototype (US$3.25 million) was to be implemented in six


                                                     - 2 -

municipalities in Leyte Province and was to focus on accelerating the issuance of land titles using the
existing administrative and judicial proceedings, enhancing service delivery of land registration, and
improving coordination between the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and
Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) in the implementation of the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform
Program. The Record Management prototype (US$1.25 million) was to be implemented in Quezon City
and focus on record verification and reconstitution, creation of a cadastral map base in the Registry of
Deeds (ROD), elimination of fake and duplicate titles (in the prototype area), and linkage to the Land
Registration Authority (LRA) sponsored Build, Own, and Operate (BOO) computerization project and
other government land-related computerization initiatives.

Component 3: Institutional Development (US$5.00 million, 48.5 percent of projected total costs). The
component was to provide support to the Project Management Office (PMO) and the two Project
Implementation Offices (PIO) of the two prototypes. This component was to include: technical assistance
(TA), training and overseas study tours; monitoring and evaluation, including two rounds of social
assessment and one development impact study; and the purchase of furniture, office equipment and
vehicles.

Component 4: Phase II Preparation (US$0.30 million, 2.9 percent of projected total costs). The
component was to include the design of the long-term LAM Program, including one round of social
assessment.

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no major revisions in component objectives or content.

Assessment of the Design: The overall project design was appropriate to deliver the project objectives of
assessing the viability of the LAM Program and formalization of the institutional arrangements needed to
support the development of the Program. It reflected the lessons learnt from other countries.

Under Component 1, following the lessons from other countries, priority land policy issues were to be
studied in parallel with other activities. Under Component 2, testing of streamlined and cost-effective
procedures in the pilot areas was planned for accelerating the issuance of land titles (Prototype 1) and for
improving the validity and completeness of land titles in the ROD (Prototype 2). Various approaches to
titling were evaluated and tested. Although the cost of obtaining a title that can be defended in the courts in
the country can be more than US$2,000, one of the highest in the world, only a few within the country
found the situation unusual. Component 2 was to spearhead the process of convincing various parties that
a free patent methodology, which included among other things new technology for mapping, could bring
about full coverage of titling land in the Philippines as well as reduce corruption in land transactions and
eventually eliminate fake titles.

Component 3 included traditional institutional development activities such as Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) and Training. However, given the fragmented and complicated system of land administration and
management in the Philippines, the most important aspect of the component was to indicate what was
missing in the sector and then develop a consensus within the country for an improved land administration
system. Paramount to this was to bring the two key land administration agencies together under a Land
Administration Authority (LAA). This was initially planned to be achieved by Executive Order (EO)
rather than by legislation. The legislative approach, which was pursued, was identified by DENR and the
Presidential Task Force as a more effective and sustainable approach to achieving change. In hindsight, the
difficulty and complexity of achieving change through legislation was under-estimated.



                                                      - 3 -

Component 4 was appropriately designed to ensure that the momentum built during project implementation
could be carried forward to the next phase of the overall Program. In practice, the GOL chose not to use
the allocated funds from the LIL for this exercse, employing instead resources from another grant fund.

The overall size of the project of about US$10.35 million was appropriate given the exploratory nature of
the task and the vastness of the Program to follow (fifty percent of the land in the Philippines has been
surveyed and only twenty percent registered). Quite appropriately, about 44 percent of the projected total
costs were allocated to the development of the prototypes. Similarly, the institutional development
component, given its challenging task, was appropriately allocated 48 percent of the projected total costs.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry was satisfactory. Peer reviewers and Bank management considered the project objectives
consistent with the 1999-2002 CAS objectives in two areas: (i) accelerating environmentally sustainable
agricultural growth and alleviating poverty in rural areas; and (ii) promoting sustainable urban
development and combating urban poverty. The key project design issues were based on experience gained
in similar projects in other East Asian countries. The risks were correctly identified although the risk
ratings for some of them, particularly for the institutional issues, were lower (S instead of an H) leading to
inadequate risk mitigation measures. The project preparation effort led to the development of effective
project management capacity including financial and procurement management.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Outcome and Output indicators are presented in Annex 1.

The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory and the development objectives were achieved. The project
identified what it will take to make the LAM Program viable. It confirmed that introducing significant
improvements in the Philippines land administration system would require changes in the legal framework
and institutional structure of the land administration institutions. It demonstrated that without these legal
and institutional changes titling efforts would be time-consuming and costly. It demonstrated at the pilot
areas that initiatives such as One-Stop-Shops (OSSs) can improve the delivery of land administration
services to the community. However, the inter-agency coordination at the OSS will be achieved only at
great cost and effort unless the institutional inefficiencies in the current system can be substantially
addressed without legal and institutional intervention.

In the original project design the required legal and institutional changes, once identified, were expected to
be brought about through EOs. However, the GOP ultimately decided to pursue legislative actions (instead
of EOs) to redress the defects in the system. The project redirected its efforts towards bringing about the
institutional changes without EO, and LAMP has successfully generated widespread support for the legal
and institutional changes.

During project implementation, the numerical target for title production was significantly revised from
30,000 to 2,000. A total of 790 titles was distributed during the project, and the target of 2,000 was
achieved by May 2005. The decrease in the target for title production was attributed to some of the
prohibitive provisions in the Commonwealth Act No. 141 (Public Lands) that surfaced during the prototype
piloting. However, it is important to state that the titling target of the project was not simply to distribute a



                                                       - 4 -

large number of titles. Rather, it was to test alternative approaches to systematic titling.

Outputs from the policy studies and the prototype activities were utilized in the consensus-building effort
by the project. With support from the project, the Land Administration Reform Act (LARA) Bill was
submitted to the 12th Congress. Sixteen variations of this Bill were filed. Processing of the Bill through
the legislative system did not progress to completion, and ultimately the 2004 general elections prevented
any further progress under the 12th Congress. However, following the election, the Bills have been re-filed
in the 13th Congress and an amalgamated single Bill is being developed.

While pursuing the new strategy of the creation and the passage of the two key Bills, the project has
achieved several other successful outcomes. In the pilot areas, the project demonstrated that the proposed
systematic titling procedures reduced the time needed to issue titles from an average of 36 months to just 4
months. In addition, because field camps enable on-site processing of titles, the project reduced potential
for conflicts thus reducing the eventual cost of litigation. Because of the OSS, subsequent transfers take
less time because transactions can be completed in one location. Systematic titling procedures and
improved records management have also avoided the issuance of double and overlapping titles and led to
detection of duplicate titles. Other beneficial outcomes include the greater transparency and accountability
in land transactions as a result of greater public access to land information; and equal access by men and
women. Exit surveys and other feedback mechanisms provide evidence of increased customer satisfaction
in land services in the pilot areas.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Land Policy Studies (US$2.38 million, 15.6 percent of project expenditure incurred). The
output of this component is satisfactory. All the six key policy studies identified during preparation were
completed. The component studied and made recommendations on various key policy areas of land
administration. An integrated policy report was produced and concluded that the introduction and
sustainability of long-term reform in land administration demands integration of functions within a single
land administration agency.

The outputs from the studies are as follows:

(i) Land Development Process: Led by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), this
study reviewed the existing system of land allocation and utilization for the best use of land. It is expected
to reform land use planning, land conversion, and site development procedures and processes.

(ii) Land Registration Finance and Fee Structure: Led by the National Tax Research Center (NTRC) of
the Department of Finance, this study reviewed the current tax and fee structure to validate the perception
that high fees and taxes act as disincentives against both initial and subsequent land registration.

(iii) Real Property Valuation Framework: Led also by the NTRC, this study looked at the current role of
property valuation, its strengths and weaknesses, and the cost of running the existing system. It also
identified options for and determined the cost of establishing a framework for a market-based property
valuation system in accordance with the internationally accepted standards. These valuation standards
were piloted in the City of Sta. Rosa. Such was the success there that the City government is now
finalizing new local government ordinances to bring the new system into effect.

(iv) Forest Boundary Demarcation and Operational Procedures Policy: Led by DENR, this study
developed a system for the development of a database for the general characteristics of land uses in the



                                                      - 5 -

uplands that will serve as a tool for planning with regard to land use. It also developed a policy framework
on what to do with areas that do not conform to their existing classification.

(v) Fragmented Land Laws and Regulations Framework: Led by the Department of Justice (DOJ), the
study built upon the previous work on laws and regulations on public land disposition, titling and
registration. It examined and updated the relevance of these, and determined implications for
implementation. It concluded, among other things, that the authorities should abolish the judicial process
for issue and registration of titles in favor of a simple administrative process.

(vi) Institutional Arrangements for Land Administration: Led by the Department of Budget Management,
this study examined existing institutional responsibilities for land administration, evaluated their
effectiveness and appropriateness, identified gaps and effects, and made some recommendations for
improvement.

Component 2: Prototypes (US$6.61 million, or 43.4 percent of project expenditure incurred). The output
of this component is satisfactory. The component had two prototypes: Land Titling and Administration
prototype and Record Management prototype. In addition to testing various titling and record management
procedures, this component also tested three different methods of preparing Cadastral Index Maps (CIMs).
Automated mapping was found to be most efficient. A total of 497 CIMs were produced, covering 73,291
parcels in both prototypes.

Prototype 1

The Land Titling and Administration prototype was implemented in six municipalities in Leyte Province.
The project tested the systematic approach to titling to demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the
mass approach to titling compared to the current sporadic (on demand) method. The experience from the
tests enabled the project to consolidate all issues requiring policy action so that a suitable legal framework
for mass titling in the next phase can be developed.

Two major approaches to titling were fully tested: the Cadastral Proceeding or Compulsory Judicial
Titling under the judicial process and Free Patent (FP) under the administrative process. Homestead Patent
(HP) and Miscellaneous Sales Patents (MSP) were partially tested. The project found all the available
mass titling procedures under existing laws to be restrictive and inefficient. The project found the judicial
process complex and inflexible. It found the best option for mass titling was the FP and has identified the
administrative improvements that can be introduced to streamline the procedures and reduce the time to
issue titles.

The most important restriction on the FP is that it applies to agricultural land only. The key issues that
have been identified to improve the use of the FP as an acceptable instrument are: (i) allow it to be used for
titling of residential, industrial and commercial lands; (ii) remove the five year restriction on transfers and
mortgages; (iii) shorten the period of proof from 30 to 10 years; (iv) allow it to reflect encumbrances such
as mortgages or leases entered into before the patent is issued; (v) recognize existing tenants; (vi) remove
all associated costs/fees; and (vii) adopt a low-cost surveying technology.

The project issued 790 titles as of December 31, 2004. A total of 2,000 titles were issued as of May,
2005. These titles were generated using the FP process. In addition, under the FP process, 31 barangays
have been surveyed and are ready for titling. The remaining 49 barangays need to have the survey plans
approved before titles can be issued. The judicial titling applications did not result in the issuance of a
single title. An order for the issuance of 33 titles was made by the Dagami Municipal Trial Court in May


                                                       - 6 -

2004 but these are currently the subject of an appeal by the Officer of the Solicitor General.

Under the project, there were no completed applications generated under HP or MSP. This is due to the
lack of interest in these patents, which arises from certain specific features. The HP has many restrictions
including 5-year absolute restriction on transfers and mortgages and a 25-year partial restriction where
DENR approval is required for such activities. The MSP treats the land as public land and an application
is, in effect, a surrender of accrued rights. Consequently, to get a title under MSP land must be purchased
again at a cost no less than the assessed value even if it has been possessed for generations.

Prototype 2

The Record Management prototype was implemented in Quezon City and focussed on record verification
and reconstitution, creation of cadastral map base in the ROD, elimination of fake and duplicate titles (in
the prototype area), and linkage to the LRA-sponsored BOO computerization project. The project
developed procedures designed to address the fundamental weaknesses in the land administration system,
largely a result of the absence of: (i) a complete and up-to-date picture of all existing land parcels; (ii) a
mechanism for the ready exchange of land information between land-related agencies; and (iii) a single
point of contact for the public to transact land titles.

In this prototype, field validation work in barangay Holy Spirit, Quezon City led to:
        1,472 titles found in the possession of property owners
        676 of the Transfer Certificates of Title (TCTs) located did not have matching records in the
         Assessor's Office
        134 had different TCT numbers to those held by the Assessor's Office
        784 of the TCTs located did not have a TCT record at the cross index
        578 parcels with informal settlements (20 percent of barangay Holy Spirit)
        testing of the Barangay Integrated Land Information System

For the prevention and detection of fake and overlapping titles and survey plans, the prototype: (i)
established an inter-agency Technical Working Group (TWG) on Fake Titles; (ii) developed a Manual of
Fake Titles; and (iii) developed a Database of Overlapping Titles and Training on Fake Title Detection.
These have resulted in increased efforts not just by the TWG agencies but also by private sector
stakeholders to pursue the matter more vigorously. To date, the prospect is high for a private
sector-initiated publication and distribution of the Manual, especially to banks and appraisers.

The prototype has developed a Survey Plan Inventory System (SPIS) to hold information about a plan,
including the barangay location, approval information, parent TCT, parcels and parcel area. For CIM
plotting, the system provided classification as to which CIM number(s) a survey plan belongs. It also
provided for the tracking of the survey plans. The system has been linked to digital copies of plans and
provides easy access to survey plan information and improved records preservation, thereby improving
records security. In addition, the component developed a National Land Records Management Strategy
(NLRMS) in 2003.

Establishment of One Stop Shops

Lastly, the project also established a OSS in each prototype site. The objective was to test institutional
collaboration in the provision of land administration services by providing an OSS for all land-related
transactions in a manner that is transparent, cost-effective and convenient to its customers. Currently,
these transactions are performed by a number of agencies and local government units and clients have to go


                                                       - 7 -

through different offices. Similarly, land records are dispersed in many agencies making it difficult for
clients to have easy access to accurate records and other land-related information.

The establishment and operating efficiency of OSS in the two Prototypes were affected by different sets of
issues. In Prototype 1, the difficulty of negotiating procedural improvements with the agencies has
constrained the introduction of additional streamlining or integration of agency processes within the OSS.
Thus, while all the offices are located in a single building, each agency undertakes its own processes
independent of the procedures of the other agencies. The underlying causes of this are the general
resistance to reforms by staff and officials of agency partners, the absence of an agreed common vision and
framework for OSS operations, and the lack of customer or service orientation of the agencies.

In Prototype 2, the cooperation from the agency partners has been positive. From the beginning, there was
strong interest and active participation in the development of the OSS Model and Transactions Manual,
including the set up and the work flow within the OSS. Agency representatives provided inputs to the kinds
of transactions that would be undertaken in the OSS, the staff requirements, and the relationships among
the procedures of the agencies. The operation of the OSS, however, was delayed by the shift in the location
of the site, originally within the premises of the Quezon City ROD at the local government unit (LGU)
compound in 2001, after the bidding process was completed. It took a while for the LRA to identify a new
location, after which there were subsequent delays in the procurement for the office renovation and
purchase of equipment. In addition to this, the reluctance of some agencies in fielding staff (e.g., the
Bureau of Internal Revenue) and in providing data to the OSS (e.g., by the ROD) also contributed to the
delay.

The project results indicate that, under a single land administration agency, land titles offices providing
OSS services should be opened, merging local DENR land services and ROD offices. Ahead of this, the
LAM Program should open OSSs in selected locations where there is sincere cooperation between the local
agencies. An EO is expected to provide a framework for the cooperation agreement and performance
evaluation and accountability.

Component 3: Institutional Development (US$6.18 million, or 40.6 percent of project expenditure
incurred). The output of this component is satisfactory. The component provided support to the PMO and
the two PIOs of the two prototypes. The component helped the PMO to manage and monitor the project.
It provided TA, training and overseas study tours, M&E including two rounds of social assessment and one
development impact study, and the purchase of furniture, office equipment, and vehicles. It had three
sub-components: (i) project management, including TA; (ii) education and training; and (iii) M&E.

         (i) Project Management. The project management sub-component performed both managerial and
technical roles. It effectively coordinated all project activities and managed project finances and the
procurement process. Loan funds were disbursed and used in accordance with Bank guidelines. Audited
accounts have generally been maintained satisfactorily. The audit for the last year is still pending. The
report for FY2003 was received very late and was qualified. Nevertheless, the qualified audit findings were
addressed by the PMO. The final audit report (CY2004) is due by June 30, 2005.

Some highlights of the performance of project management are:
        Timely assignment of regular staff from key agencies such as LRA, DENR, DAR (now
         Department of Land Reform, and the LGU to perform key management functions in
         the project;
        Effective coordination with key agencies in the conduct of six policy studies;



                                                      - 8 -

        Effective performance as a secretariat of the Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee (IACC), later
         replaced by the Task Force (TF) and the TWG under it; and
        Effective coordination of the inter-agency Design Steering Committee for LAMP II.

         (ii) Education and Training. The sub-component supported domestic training in the areas of
management, surveying and mapping, land administration and land information system. It also supported
focused study tours and overseas training opportunities that enhanced the understanding of the issues
involved in modern land administration, particularly in demonstrating concretely the benefits and the
functioning of the OSS concept.

The sub-component produced a core group of competent staff who can serve as the nucleus upon which to
develop the capacity of other staff for the next phase to perform the following functions:
        Systematic adjudication
        Management of OSSs
        Records management
        Cadastral surveys using different technologies
        CIM production
        Management of cadastral survey contracts
        Base camp operations
        Planning of integrated technical and support programs for titling and records management
        M&E of land administration projects
        Community relations/community organizing/social development for land administration

Under the sub-component, the following training manuals were developed to supplement operating manuals
and guidebooks earlier developed by LAMP:
        Training Manual on OSS
        Training Manual on Systematic Adjudication
        Training Manual on Survey
        Training Manual on Social Development
        Training Manual on OSS Tracking and Cross Index
        Training Manual on Records and Field Validation
        Training Manual on CIM
        Training Manual on Human Resource Development.

      (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation. After a slow-start, the M&E sub-component developed an intricate
array of activities and reports. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission estimates that after
the initial start-up period a quarter of the project's activities were directed towards some form of M&E.
The highlights of the M&E activities include:
        Regular evaluation of technical and operational procedures as new procedures were piloted.
        Quarterly Review workshops at each site and then in a forum at the three project offices (PMO and
         for the two prototypes). These participatory reviews focused on progress and performance,
         adjusting operational plans, and identifying project lessons.
        Lessons generation, particularly in the second half of the project. A database was developed, and
         an integrated lessons report was prepared and validated at the project offices and at workshops
         with stakeholders.
        An M&E Handbook documenting all tools and procedures developed under the project has been
         made available for the second phase of the LAM Program.




                                                       - 9 -

Component 4: Phase II Preparation (Expenditures were zero: during implementation, the GOP decided
that no loan proceeds would be used for this component but that resources from another grant fund would
be used). Output of this component is satisfactory. The component supported the preparation of the
project's second phase (LAMP II) based on the output and the experience of the project. The prime
considerations were: (i) the availability of enough lessons and experiences upon which to draw the
configuration of the next phase; (ii) the need to ensure a seamless transition from LAMP to LAMP II; and
(iii) the need to sustain the momentum achieved through the wide consensus already reached on the reform
proposals.

The following additional studies were carried out to provide inputs to the design: (i) National Training
Needs Assessment, completed in September 2003; (ii) Land Markets Study, completed in March 2004; and
(iii) Land Tenure Study, completed in November 2004.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

It rarely makes sense to calculate the economic rate of return for a LIL and this project is no exception. A
major reason for using the LIL instrument is to eliminate choices, and an options methodology to calculate
the value of the LIL is more appropriate. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) used ERR calculations
more appropriate for an investment project. In arriving at an ERR of 24 percent, the appraisal had
assumed that the LIL would issue 50,000 titles in rural and urban areas and improve the quality of records
of about 50,000 titles in the urban area. As indicated in the PAD, even before project approval this target
was revised to 30,000 which would have brought the ERR down to 14.4 percent. During implementation,
as the project tested different approaches to systematic titling, the title production target was further revised
from 30,000 to 2,000. The project ultimately produced 790 titles by the Loan's closing date of December
31, 2004 and ultimately distributed 2,000 titles by April 30, 2005. This would put the ERR firmly in the
negative using the approach in the PAD.

However, in terms of titling, the primary purpose of this project was not simply to "mass-produce" titles.
Rather, it was to test alternative approaches to systematic titling while establishing the necessary
regulatory and legal framework for reform of land administration. A major part of the value of the LIL lies
also in identifying the erroneous paths to be avoided. An economic analysis based on decision-tree analysis
or options methodology to evaluate the value of the LIL has not been attempted. Instead, a simple analysis
based on the follow-up project is offered (see Annex 3). In this approach, the benefit of the LIL is simply
to bring forward the net benefits from the next phase of the program. Using this methodology, the ERR is
found to be 7.95 percent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The ICR used the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) stream of cash flows used for LAMP II PAD and
calculated the benefit of the project from advancing the benefits. The financial benefits came from the
following sources: (i) income from initial registration (about US$20 per title); and (ii) income from
subsequent registration, which has three parts: (a) capital gains tax (about six percent of transaction value);
(b) real property tax (about one to four percent of property value); and (c) registration fee and stamp duty
(about US$12). The financial costs are all project costs and the future management costs associated with
the titling issue. Using the simplified approach, the Net Present Value (NPV), at seven percent cost of
capital, is estimated to be around US$4 million. However, the project is already generating substantial
income flows to the Quezon City LGU. The project identified about 5,000 parcels that were not paying



                                                     - 10 -

real estate taxes mainly because the records were burned in a fire in 1988. The taxes from these parcels
now produce about US$2.5 million per year. Including these benefits, the FRR is estimated at 11.92
percent (see table in Annex 3).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has had modest institutional development impact. All the capabilities at the working level,
from surveying and map production to title registration and client orientation, are essentially limited to the
two pilot areas and have not percolated throughout the various institutions that participated in the project.
However, the project has immensely improved DENR's capability to address the sectoral issues,
particularly its consensus-building activities to mobilize the legislature behind legal and institutional
changes in the sector. The project has also created a TF, with high-level participation from various
sectoral institutions which are firmly behind the change process.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

In the Philippines, there is much greater use of the overloaded court system for land registration matters
than in many countries. The Judicial Titling process is the main approach for residential and commercial
land transactions and requires multiple reviews by lawyers. The lawyers and the courts, and all those who
benefit from informal fees, resist any action to simplify the land laws and processes. Their ability to stop
EOs from bringing about mass titling through simple administrative processes was not envisaged during
project preparation. During implementation it was realized that the resistance could be overcome only by
enacting new laws. At the time of project design, the preferred approach to systematic titling remained
unproven. Therefore, in testing different approaches to systematic titling, the original target for title
distribution was discovered to be unrealistic and it was significantly reduced.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The project enjoyed support at the level of the President of the Republic. However, even with this support,
requisite laws and regulations could not be enacted expeditiously. In terms of financial support, the
provision of counterpart funds was occasionally delayed but did not lead to serious delay of activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The project enjoyed support at the leadership level of all participating agencies. However, coordination at
the working level proved to be difficult for Prototype 1. The multiple agencies involved in land
administration and management were unwilling to assign responsibilities to the OSS. This made the OSS
take the role of a facilitator rather than a provider of services to the clients. In addition, within each of the
agencies reforms in the technical environment were not forthcoming. For example, in addressing the cost of
new cadastral surveys, DENR was reluctant to move away from field measurement intensive methods and
adopt alternate techniques tested in the Prototype.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the total project cost over four years was estimated at US$10.35 million. This was to be
financed by US$4.79 million of the Bank's LIL, US$1.36 million from GOP, and US$4.20 million from a
grant from the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID). The actual project cost over
four years was US$15.22 million, of which US$3.69 million was from proceeds of the IBRD loan,



                                                      - 11 -

US$1.51 million from GOP, and US$10.02 million from the AusAID grant (see Annex 2). The cost
over-run was in every component because the original strategy could not be executed. The new strategy of
using the legislative process required more in-depth studies, did not immediately lead to gains from legal
and institutional changes, and increased project management and training costs. About US$1.1 million of
the IBRD loan remained undisbursed because the GOP chose to finance the activities with grant funds. It
is noted that the unavailability of GOP counterpart funds resulted in the tapping of grant funds rather than
use of the IBRD loan funds in cases of training, consensus-building and additional policy studies.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

This project is part of a long-term commitment of the GOP and the Bank. Consequently, it was designed to
lay the foundations for a sustainable long-term LAM Program. This involved the testing of cost-effective
procedures for systematic titling and land records management and helping put in place the reforms to
sustain the implementation of the Program. However, two critical issues could derail the Program and
thereby affect its sustainability. They are: (i) the general resistance from the affected agencies to changes
introduced and the broad reform in policies and institutions; and (ii) the legal and structural defects of the
system that prevent the adoption of new improved procedures. These critical issues could lead to higher
and unforeseeable GOP budgetary commitment for the LAM Program.

Passage of the LARA Bill in the Congress will require more focused effort to address the bottlenecks to its
enactment. Succeeding phases of reforms will require similar (if not greater) support. Once established,
the new LAA may eventually lead the next wave of reforms, depending on what would be the final
provisions of the approved Bill. Built into the recommendations and proposed amendments to laws are
considerations of cost recovery in services and increase in revenues by widening the tax base. A transition
and implementation plan has been prepared for establishing the LAA.

The project created awareness, interest and commitment from civil society which was never there before
because the sector was shrouded in technical complexities. The challenge of maintaining this participation
is important for the reform, otherwise government agencies may dictate service levels and standards on
their own. With exceptions, government agencies generally find civil society participation in land
administration not always necessary. Institutional structures and performance measurement programs are
needed to ensure that the customers are not "locked out" of the sector. Until the LAA is created, with its
stakeholder policy advisory committee and other measures, the follow-on project for the next phase of the
Program (LAMP II) will be needed to sustain this vital input.

If things progress as planned, the changes envisaged in the LAM Program over the next 15-20 years will
require significant human resource development. The existing skills and knowledge and the education and
professional development courses available are significantly insufficient. It is clear that capacity building
will be required to go hand in hand with the application of new technologies, structures, relationships and
work methods.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The OSS was envisaged as an institutional mechanism to provide more efficient delivery of land
administration services to the public. While OSS can operate without the legislation to merge the agencies,
the bureaucratic culture that varies greatly and the absence of a common vision and leadership to introduce
changes and command compliance all contribute to the low likelihood of institutional sustainability. The



                                                      - 12 -

continuation of OSS operations will therefore depend greatly on the goodwill and commitment of the
agencies after the completion of the LAMP. To date, this goodwill has not yet fully materialized in terms
of the necessary authorities and financial delegations for the OSS to function.

On systematic titling, most of the agencies are willing and able to adopt the procedures introduced by the
project. Some mechanisms have already been established to address the sustainability of the recommended
systematic titling process. However, more needs to be done to ensure these changes are mainstreamed in
the agencies. A draft survey regulation is in development and a regulation on mass titling by FP is
beginning to be drafted, to form a framework for the detailed procedures already fully documented.
Further, there needs to be institutional agreements with the ROD and DENR in relation to the processing of
titles, registration of patents, and review and approval of survey plans.

On records management, some agencies have expressed interest in adopting the methodologies introduced
by the project. However, others have expressed reservations based on the view that some of these methods
would require legal basis or mandates to be used (e.g., use of Cadastral Index Mapping). The
mainstreaming of most of the procedures would likewise require drastic modifications in the records
management practices of the agencies, something which the agencies are not fully prepared to do at the
moment. Moreover, these would require additional investments in equipment, records inventory, and
training of staff so that these can be continued after the project. It is planned that the Quezon City OSS
operations would be transferred to the City LGU ahead of LAMP II. The Mayor has subsequently
committed to funding the OSS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated as
satisfactory. The fact-finding mission from the Bank and subsequent preparation efforts developed the path
for the long-term LAM Program. Starting with a LIL, it rightly initiated activities to address various
structural defects in the sector, such as: (i) rigid and outdated land laws and regulations; (ii) weak and
inefficient institutional structures; (iii) lack of transparency and accountability in the land registration
system; and (iv) multiple, inconsistent and inequitable land valuation systems used in various government
agencies. The risks were well identified, although the resistance to change was underestimated. Overall,
the PAD, including the design summary (log-frame), made it easy during implementation to keep the focus
on top issues.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project is rated as satisfactory. The regular
supervision missions included Bank staff and consultants who are considered specialists, with outstanding
international experience in the field. They provided advice based on the local situation and technical inputs
to keep the vision of a well-functioning land management and administration system alive in the minds of
the participants, particularly among those working in the Prototypes. When the EOs were unable to be
supported to resolve the systemic legal and institutional problems, the Bank's supervision effort continued
to support the overall objectives and the lengthy process of consultations and preparation of various Bills to
address the issues. The Bank has also consistently stressed the importance of delivering tangible results to
ensure the maintenance of political and community support for land administration reform.

The Bank supervision team was generally able to coordinate well with AusAID. However, progress


                                                         - 13 -

towards real harmonization could be improved. The two institutions still rely mostly on their own
respective processes and reporting mechanisms. The institutions have different reporting requirements
from the government. Areas for improved harmonization include project design (e.g., consistent component
structure and higher compatibility of log-frames) and supervision (e.g., communication with government,
reporting and AusAID Quality Assurance Panel - QAP). Other land projects in the region appear to have
achieved greater harmonization than LAMP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above assessments, the Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. The GOP committed to a long
LAM Program and built, jointly with the donors, a framework of sustainable change.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The GOP's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The initiative was supported at the
highest level, which permitted project personnel to maintain high morale even when facing setbacks and
general resistance at the working level.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory overall. Both DENR and DOJ/LRA
leadership was very supportive during implementation. The participation of the various agencies within the
IACC and later in the Task Force was commendable. However, the agencies appear to overrely on foreign
TA, not only for technical inputs but also for quality control. Lastly, at times, the commitment of the
agencies has not been harmonious and the high level support from the agencies has not materialized at the
operational level (e.g., authorizations/delegations being assigned to OSS).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above assessments, the Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.8 Co-financier Performance:

AusAID co-financed the project with grant funds for TA. Effective TA was provided through an
Australian Managing Contractor (AMC). However, the comments made on harmonization of donor
activities in section 7.2 above apply to AusAID as well. Not enough was done to build sustainable
Borrower capacity in areas such as project management, procurement, financial management and M&E. In
addition, there appears to be a recent approach favored by AusAID to reduce its burden of supervising the
AMC through its piloting of QAP. QAP was intended to be a peer review mechanism of the AMC, and is
actually engaged by the AMC itself. However, the QAP has tended to widen its scope to review many
aspects of the project. This has increased the overall supervision burden to government and may also serve
to confuse the government about the different roles of project supervision and quality assurance of the TA.




                                                     - 14 -

8. Lessons Learned

Advice to Government.          There is a need for the Executive Branch of government to receive clear
and consistent advice from within the respective line departments/agencies, especially when there is a
need to bring about significant legal and institutional changes. In the Philippines, this has been
challenging because there are multiple government agencies with overlapping mandates for land
administration and management. The processing of the various Bills, initiated during the project, required
complex and time-consuming balancing of interests. Several versions of the LARA Bill were filed in the
Congress. Once the LAA is established, hopefully during the early part of LAMP II, the Executive Branch
will be able to receive its primary advice on land administration from the single responsible line agency.
This may facilitate a more efficient and effective approach to legal and institutional reform of land
administration.

High Level Support.          LAMP has enjoyed the highest levels of political support, including that of
the President. To ensure the maintenance of high-level support in the government, it is important
that tangible outputs are delivered. For a land administration project, where systematic titling is the
major component, this means that titles must be distributed to land holders throughout project
implementation. Distribution of titles to land holders provides a very clear demonstration of successful
project achievement which is popular with both the community and politicians. Where title distribution is
undertaken by leading politicians and senior government officers, profiles in the media and community may
be maximized. However, to achieve and maintain this positive public profile during LAMP II there must
be a consistent delivery of titles in sufficient volume. Delivery of a small volume of titles is insufficient to
maintain a high political and public interest and support.

Important Role of LGUs.         LGUs play a very significant role in land administration reform and the
delivery of services to the community. Support for legal and institutional changes can come from
building support within LGU leadership (Mayors). LGU leaders can motivate community participation
in the titling process even when the number of titles being issued is small. Fairness of valuation, need for
taxes, problems of fake titles, or threats from syndicates can all then be discussed frankly within the
community under the leadership of the Mayor. The role of the Provincial Governor is also important. For
LAMP II, it is proposed that Mayors and Provincial Governors will play key roles in implementation
including participation on provincial steering committees.

Integrated Delivery of Land Administration Services.            In order for OSSs to operate effectively
and efficiently in the delivery of land administration services, they must be assigned the requisite
administrative authorizations and financial delegations to enable them to perform their designated
functions. Legislation or other appropriate instruments are necessary to empower the OSS with the
requisite administrative and financial delegations to ensure integrated delivery of land administration
services through an OSS. Establishment of the LAA, once the LARA Bill is enacted, is expected to
facilitate the necessary assignment of authority to the OSS. Should the Bill not be passed during the early
part of LAMP II, it will be necessary for a suitable EO to be issued.

Land Titling. Systematic (mass) titling is more efficient and cost-effective use of government
resources and capacity than sporadic (on-demand) titling, and it is more affordable for the
poor. Also, the issuing of titles under an administrative system, rather than a Judicial
system is more efficient and cost-effective. The issuance of FP title was identified as the best
means of issuing first time title. Although LAMP demonstrated that FP title could be issued, it
was limited to agricultural areas only. Although FP had been identified as the best means for of


                                                      - 15 -

title issuance, the inability to achieve the necessary amendments to the Commonwealth Act
precluded widespread implementation over both rural and urban lands. It is very clear that
Judicial titling is expensive and takes a protracted period. The issuing of titles under an
administrative system, would clearly more efficient and cost-effective than under the Judicial
titling system.

Tenure Security. Tenure security through titling must be linked to broader development
programs for the envisioned social, economic and financial outcomes to be fully realized.
An emphasis on post-titling activities is needed to facilitate linkages between government LAM
agencies to exploit the benefits of titling and to offer the beneficiaries access to services and
finances to develop the land. However, given that the emphasis under the LIL was on testing
alternative approaches to titling, it is envisaged that further development on the benefits of titling
will be addressed in the second phase of LAMP.

Land Records Management. Improved land records management has enormous potential
for improving LGU revenue collection, and stimulating activity in the land market. LGUs
should play a significant role in supporting and sustaining these initiatives and support should be
provided to build LGU capacity, and to promote best practices in records management. For the
long term, development of land records databases should be guided by a national strategy, and a
full understanding of key agency requirements. An appropriate data management system will be
required for a more extensive development. The equipment and structures will need to be fully
specified, as well as work carried out on transaction rates and file sizes in order to determine the
database capacity required.

Land records management can be improved leading to better detection and prevention of
fake, double, overlapping and fake/spurious titles through the introduction of new systems.
These are: (i) the cadastral index map; (ii) the cross index of records; and (iii) the record
validation procedures; all designed to improve records integrity and detect inconsistencies, gaps,
and missing records. The community relations aspect of the land records Prototype (Prototype 2),
on the other hand, was meant to continuously educate the general public of the procedures and
policies relating to land in an effort to rebuild trust in the system and to counter the work of
syndicates who have taken advantage of the imperfections in the records system and the lack of
understanding by the public. When introduced as part of the land administration system, these
methods will have added value of providing more accurate land records information to the general
public, other government agencies, and to the private sector or business community in facilitating
investments in land.

Property Valuation. The reform of the property valuation system requires a definite
commitment to change and the creation of a National Appraisal Authority to lead the
implementation of reform. The priorities are the removal of political influence by the separation
of the valuation and tax functions and capacity building across all functions and at all levels of the
valuation activity. Although property valuation was initially designed as one of the key policy
studies under the project, it has emerged as a priority area for LAM reform. A national uniform
valuation system based on standards and regulated by the NAA is seen as essential for the
implementation of a fair, equitable and transparent land taxation system. In addition, the second



                                                  - 16 -

phase of LAMP will need to give considerable emphasis to building valuation capacity in both the
public and private sectors.

Donor Harmonization.           The joint supervision missions of the Bank and AusAID were effective for
monitoring the project and constructively contributed to advance LAMP's implementation. Timely,
joint supervision missions provide very effective ways for the donors to undertake their respective fiduciary
responsibilities. In addition to joint supervision, AusAID piloted a QAP process intended to assure quality
in the performance of the TA. However, in undertaking this process the QAP also assessed many aspects
of the actual project thereby appearing as a form of de facto supervision. This has significantly increased
the supervision demands on the government. It is important that donor supervision be harmonized to ensure
that it continues to be effective and does not become a burden for the government. It is also desirable that
both donors adopt a common project component structure. For LAMP, full agreement between the Bank
and AusAID was not reached on project design.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments From DENR (LAMP PMO)

After breaking through many barriers, LAMP has established a base of experience which, while still
incomplete, can confidently be used as a foundation for the LAM Program. It has documented all the
experience and generated essential lessons so that the next phase will be better guided in terms of the
overall strategy, scope, focus, and direction. LAMP also served as a catalyst for change. It is the first
major investment in the LAM sector and it has identified that there are alternatives to the current system,
and that there are benefits that can be achieved if sufficient support is given in the right areas.

Overall, the project is satisfactory in terms of the following aspects:

Objectives. The objectives were mainly satisfactorily achieved. The policies and reform proposals were
identified, and an overall reform agenda generally developed with strong ownership by relevant
stakeholders. Replicable procedures for titling and records management were also developed, providing the
opportunity to gain additional improvement in the next phase and as changes are introduced in the policy
and institutions. However, some limitations were noted in the areas of OSS operations and mainstreaming
of improved procedures in the agencies. Despite demonstration of the cost-effectiveness and administrative
feasibility of these innovations, the general resistance to reforms, the lack of customer orientation, and the
absence of a culture of performance and accountability all have compounded the difficulties in the adoption
of change.

Design. The design was generally rated as appropriate. It was noted that the critical link between land
titling and poverty reduction needed a stronger demonstration, i.e., linking the program to the wider growth
and development agenda of the government. Likewise, there remains the need to fully develop a long term
strategy or `roadmap' for the LAM Program. Also, the reduced focus on valuation in the design meant
consideration of key financial and tax elements of land administration were delayed. In hindsight the areas
selected for prototypes presented significant problems during implementation. Some assumptions during
design were found not valid. The assumption that the Philippines was strong in the technical areas of land
administration was not true. On the contrary, there was weak capacity for surveying and information
technology. The same holds true for the appraisal/valuation profession.




                                                      - 17 -

Project management.         The management of the project was satisfactory, overall. Despite the weaknesses
in procurement, financial management and challenges encountered in the initial stages associated with
coordinating an interagency undertaking. The commitment of the development partners and of the
government at the highest level was instrumental in ensuring that the project remained focused on its
objectives. Despite the limitations in the management arrangements, the neutrality of PMO was a key
factor in fostering support of different stakeholder groups and partner agencies.

LIL nature. The LIL proved to be a suitable instrument in starting development assistance for
government's stated long-term program in a sector which is poorly understood; where the issues are very
complex and where the existing institutions and policies are judged inadequate to make the returns on
investments sustainable. Combining investment support from the World Bank, with technical assistance
from AusAID was the best way of developing cost effective technical and socially responsive solutions.

LAMP sustainability, however, has to be strengthened. The reforms have to be fully in place, for the
technical and administrative improvements to be sustainable and provide maximum benefits.

(b) Cofinanciers:


Comments From AusAID

LAMP formally commenced in October 2000, using US$4.29 million from World Bank under a Learning
and Innovation Loan (LIL). After twelve months, AusAID's TA co-finance contribution of up to AUD
13.7 million began with the mobilization of the Australian Managing Contractor (AMC), Land Equity
International Pty Ltd. Prior to that period, AusAID provided a bridging TA from January to October
2001. AusAID also provided funding for the design of LAMP.

Project Design Issues

It was the intention that the World Bank and AusAID TA would commence at the same time, in January
2001. As this did not occur, AusAID decided to prepare its own Project Design Document (PDD) to
include some important elements of land management, such as land use rights, community consultations,
gender and LGU engagement, that were overlooked in the initial design. This resulted in different
logframes for the AusAID PDD and the World Bank PAD. The AMC integrated the logframes of the two
documents into an integrated logframe document during implementation. It would have been desirable to
use this integrated logframe document for M&E purposes. This would have minimized the problems
encountered during supervision missions over the criteria to be used for M&E.

In all future phases, it is desirable to have agreement on joint design, project management and operational
procedures, including a common logframe for M&E. Perhaps there is need for some flexibility to adjust
the PAD document to ensure that it is responsive to changes in project design and implementation.

Financial Structuring

World Bank, AusAID and the GOP financial systems were operating independently. There was lack of
coordination between budgeting, disbursement and activity programming for the project. Funds were
disbursed by AusAID TA to engage experts to complete specific activities, without counterpart funds being
released for the procurement of essential equipment, counterparts or programmed training activities. Many
delays were experienced in the running of activities; some project activities were not completed
satisfactorily, and the salaries of contract staff were paid many months in arrears.


                                                      - 18 -

There is need for a much-improved financial structuring arrangement for all future phases. A composite
budgeting and disbursement program for all partners, linked to the annual work plan for the project is
necessary. This would ensure funds are disbursed for project activities and procurements in a timely
manner. Improvements to GOP DBM and agency disbursement and financial management are required.

Supervision Missions

Supervision missions, involving the GOP, World Bank and AusAID occurred every six months. The Joint
Missions proved useful in keeping track of overall progress and identifying key issues. However, there is
need to reconsider the role of joint supervision missions to ensure greater partnership and ownership in the
direction, development and monitoring of the project by the agencies involved.

Partnership issues

There are many issues related to AusAID TA and other support which are intricately linked into the World
Bank loan agreement and the PAD. There is need to improve AusAID's and the Bank's understanding of
each other's internal processes and procedures. In this regard, AusAID is considering the feasibility of
involving the World Bank in its TA selection processes and procurement procedures.

LAMP was the first project for which AusAID trialed the QAP and Quality Assurance Contractor (QAC)
arrangements. An independent review of QAP/QAC process concluded that the arrangements worked well,
although there was room for improvements. AusAID is considering how to improve the sharing of
QAP/QAC information with the World Bank, especially in the exchange of technical reports.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Government approves a time-bound action Draft Bill creating the LAA submitted to 12th Draft LAA Bill submitted to both the 12th and
plan to set up the institutional arrangements Congress. President of the Republic of the          13th Congress. Draft Bill and related policy
necessary for improved and effective land          Philippines endorsed the Bill. Leaders of both reforms filed in Congress were consolidated
administration.                                    houses indicated support to the Bill and have into the proposed LARA Bill which is
                                                   started deliberations.                         currently under deliberation by Congress.

2. IACC and key agencies approve                   Policy recommendations and stakeholder         All the planned policy studies supporting the
recommendations for policy formulation in the inputs integrated into the overall policy and       needed reform in the land administration
areas of: (i) property valuation; (ii)             legislative framework.                         system completed.
demarcation of forest boundaries; (iii) land
development process; (iv) finance and fee                                                         A 14-Point Land Administration Reform
structures for land registration; (v)                                                             Agenda developed based on policy studies
fragmented land laws and regulations; and                                                         on institutions, laws, finance and fees, and
(vi) institutional structure for land registration.                                               valuation. Agenda approved by IACC/LAMP
Time bound action plan for implementation                                                         Task Force.
approved.
                                                                                                  Broad action plan developed on the Land
                                                                                                  Administration Reform Agenda.

                                                                                                  Implementation of recommendations of the
                                                                                                  Valuation Study already started under the
                                                                                                  project.


3. Procedures and guidelines for                   Procedures and guidelines for accelerating     Procedures and guidelines for accelerating
accelerating land titling programs tested,         land titling programs approved by the          land titling programs approved by the
reviewed and endorsed by the implementing          government.                                    government.
agencies and IACC.
                                                                                                  Proposed amendment to the FP and draft
                                                                                                  Property Valuation Reform Bill submitted for
                                                                                                  consideration by the 13th Congress.

                                                                                                  DENR Secretary issued Department
                                                                                                  Administrative Order removing the
                                                                                                  long-standing gender bias in land titling.

                                                                                                  Recommended systematic titling procedures
                                                                                                  (given existing legislation) documented into a
                                                                                                  Field Operations Manual and Training
                                                                                                  Manual for use in LAMP II.



4. Government approves the direction of the Detailed design of next phase agreed by key           LAMP II prepared under the direction of an
long-term program and Phase II of the LAM          stakeholders.                                  Inter-Agency Design Steering Committee and
Project, which includes a time frame for                                                          building on results of LAM Project
addressing institutional and policy reform                                                        experiences and policy study findings and
areas recommended by the IACC and                                                                 recommendations.
expanding the titling program and record
reconstitution program to the rest of the                                                         LAMP II negotiations completed in April 2005
country.                                                                                          and scheduled for World Bank Board
                                                                                                  approval on May 31, 2005.




                                                                      - 20 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Improved coordination mechanism            Established IACC/LAMP Task Force, Local       Established IACC/LAMP Task Force, Local
among the implementing agencies.               Advisory Group and Inter-Agency Technical     Advisory Group and Inter-Agency Technical
                                               Working Group for improved coordination on Working Group for improved coordination on
                                               land administration and management.           land administration and management.


1.2 Recommendations (those under               Various policies developed and integrated     Various policies developed and integrated
authority of the concerned agencies) of the    into the 14-Point Land Administration         into the 14-Point Land Administration
institutional policy study accepted and        Agenda.                                       Agenda.
implemented.
                                               Policy development and formulation built on   Policy development and formulation built on
                                               partnership and broad participation and       partnership and broad participation and
                                               consensus building with various stakeholders consensus building with various stakeholders
                                               such as Basic Sector of NAPC, legislative     such as Basic Sector of NAPC, legislative
                                               advocacy network, etc. This process           advocacy network, etc. This process
                                               generated stakeholders' support on the        generated stakeholders' support on the
                                               proposed land administration and              proposed land administration and
                                               management bill and reform agenda.            management bill and reform agenda.

                                               Some recommendations in the policy studies Some recommendations in the policy studies
                                               implemented and alternative approaches        implemented and alternative approaches
                                               tested. Results of implementation and testing tested. Results of implementation and testing
                                               disseminated/shared with relevant agencies    disseminated/shared with relevant agencies
                                               and stakeholders.                             and stakeholders.


                                               Action plan and schedule prepared to support Action plan and schedule prepared to support
1.3 A time-bound action plan to implement      implementation of the 14-point reform         implementation of the 14-point reform
the rest of the recommendations is endorsed agenda.                                          agenda.
by IACC.
2.1 A draft action plan endorsed by the IACC Policy study and corresponding action plan      Policy study and corresponding action plan
to improve the process of land development     recently prepared and yet to be presented to  recently prepared and yet to be presented to
and planning for the use of land in urban and  the IACC/LAMP Task Force.                     the IACC/LAMP Task Force.
rural areas.


2.2 IACC endorses the recommendations of IACC/LAMP Task Force approved the                   IACC/LAMP Task Force approved the
the finance and fee structure policy study and finance and fee structure recommendations. finance and fee structure recommendations.
a time-bound action plan for implementation. Firmed-up time frame for adoption under         Firmed-up time frame for adoption under
                                               consideration.                                consideration.
2.3 IACC endorses a framework for property Framework and action plan for                     Framework and action plan for
valuation and a time-bound action plan for     implementation of property valuation          implementation of property valuation
implementation.                                recommendations approved by the               recommendations approved by the
                                               IACC/LAMP Task Force.                         IACC/LAMP Task Force.


2.4 IACC endorses recommendations for          IACC/LAMP Task Force endorsed policy          IACC/LAMP Task Force endorsed policy
changes in the legal framework for land        recommendations and integrated these into     recommendations and integrated these into
administration and a time-bound plan for       the overall policy and legislative framework  the overall policy and legislative framework
implementation.                                submitted to Congress.                        submitted to Congress.


2.5 IACC endorses a policy framework on        IACC/LAMP Task Force approved policy          IACC/LAMP Task Force approved policy
forest boundaries demarcation and legal        framework on forest boundaries demarcation framework on forest boundaries demarcation
rights of forest occupants.                    and legal rights of forest occupants.         and legal rights of forest occupants.


3.1 Well-functioning land titling and          Improved procedures for mass titling which    Improved procedures for mass titling which
administration prototype, where 80% of         are replicable and possible under existing    are replicable and possible under existing
parcels legislation type area are titled with  legislation/regulations developed and tested  legislation/regulations developed and tested
cost around US$60 per parcel and 80% of        (i.e., judicial, FP, HP and MSP titling       (i.e., judicial, FP, HP and MSP titling
titles are collected and registered by the     procedures).                                  procedures).
beneficiaries.
                                               Revised target of 2,000 title applications    790 FP titles registered and distributed at
                                               (under FP) registered and distributed to      US$61.62 per patent for un-surveyed areas




                                                                    - 21 -

                                              beneficiaries.                                 and US$48.66 for surveyed areas. (Cost for
                                                                                             un-surveyed areas cover survey and
                                                                                             adjudication activities.) By May 2005, the
                                                                                             project had fully distributed the 2,000 targets.


3.2 DENR, DAR and ROD operate a OSS,          OSS established and staff from participating OSS established and staff from participating
which cuts the time taken for issuance of     agencies trained on the OSS management         agencies trained on the OSS management
new titles by 50% at the end of the project.  and operations. Title processing and           and operations. Title processing and
                                              issuance time significantly decreased.         issuance time significantly decreased.



3.3 Procedures and guidelines for             Procedures and guidelines for accelerating     Procedures and guidelines for accelerating
accelerated land titling program, including   land titling programs, and                     land titling programs, and
streamlined procedures among all agencies, simplified/streamlined procedures for land        simplified/streamlined procedures for land
reviewed and endorsed by the IACC to be       transactions in the OSS                        transactions in the OSS
adopted in the implementation of the          approved by the government.                    approved by the government.
long-term program.
                                              Recommended systematic titling procedures Recommended systematic titling procedures
                                              (given existing legislation) documented into a (given existing legislation) documented into a
                                              Field Operations Manual and Training           Field Operations Manual and Training
                                              Manual for use in LAMP II.                     Manual for use in LAMP II.


3.4 An effective community relations and      Community relations and services program       Community relations and services program
services program implemented including        implemented using key participatory            implemented using key participatory
broad social awareness, impact monitoring,    approaches which included LGU and              approaches which included LGU and
and NGOs participation.                       NGO-led community organizing initiatives.      NGO-led community organizing in initiatives.


4.1 Improved procedures for reconstitution    CIM development and records validation         CIM development and records validation
of titles developed, tested and implemented.  procedures tested and fully documented.        procedures tested and fully documented.
                                              (Replication is limited due to the technical   (Replication is limited due to the technical
                                              limitations of agencies and lack of budget.)   limitations of agencies and lack of budget.)

                                              Manual on detection of fake titles developed   Manual on detection of fake titles developed
                                              and database of fake titles compiled from      and database of fake titles compiled from
                                              records of agencies and private sector such    records of agencies and private sector such
                                              as banks. (Manual includes procedures for      as banks. (Manual includes procedures for
                                              early detection of double and overlapping      early detection of double and overlapping
                                              titles and identification of missing titles.)  titles and identification of missing titles.)

                                              Inter-Agency Technical Working Group           Inter-agency Technical Working Group
                                              formed, with participation from the community formed, with participation from the community
                                              and private sector, to coordinate efforts on   and private sector, to coordinate efforts on
                                              fake title detection.                          fake title detection.

                                              Legislative proposals identified - aimed at    Legislative proposals identified - aimed at
                                              improving the detection and resolution of      improving the detection and resolution of
                                              fake, double and overlapping titles and the    fake, double and overlapping titles and the
                                              efficient reconstitution of missing titles.    efficient reconstitution of missing titles.


4.2 The reconstitution of 80% of all titles,  All (100%) available titles in the prototype   All (100%) available titles in the prototype
including damaged, lost or incorrect records. area crossed-indexed.                          area crossed-indexed.

                                              Validated 39,087 parcels in five barangays, of Validated 39,087 parcels in five barangays, of
                                              which 38,114 title records are classified as   which 38,114 title records are classified as
                                              live and 973 title records are classified as   live and 973 title records are classified as
                                              retired.                                       retired.

                                              Missing records confirmed.                     Missing records confirmed.


4.3 Procedures for the compilation and        Alternative methods for CIM production         Alternative methods for CIM production
updating of cadastral maps, including the     developed, tested and documented in the        developed, tested and documented in the
sharing of data among the different           CIM Manual.                                    CIM Manual.
departments/agencies have been tested and
implemented.                                  CIM and cross index used by various            CIM and cross index used by various
                                              agencies in the OSS as a spatial reference     agencies in the OSS as a spatial reference




                                                                  - 22 -

                                             for land transaction.                       for land transaction.


4.4 Procedures for interface with the BOO    NLRMS developed and agreed by               NLRMS developed and agreed by
and other government land related            stakeholders (GOP, private sector,          stakeholders (GOP, private sector,
computerization projects examined, reviewed, community, etc.).                           community, etc.).
tested and implemented.
                                             Inter-Agency Technical Working Group on     Inter-Agency Technical Working Group on
                                             NLRMS created with a mandate to develop     NLRMS created with a mandate to develop
                                             implementation guidelines for mainstreaming implementation guidelines for mainstreaming
                                             NLRMS strategies in relevant agencies.      NLRMS strategies in relevant agencies.


4.5 The NEDA Board approved the direction NEDA Board approved the direction of the       NEDA Board approved the direction of the
of the long term program and ICC approved    long term program (road map).               long term program (road map).
Phase II of the project.
                                             LAMP II approved and negotiated in April    LAMP II approved and negotiated in April
                                             2005.                                       2005.


1End of project




                                                                - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Policy Studies                                               0.48             2.38           495.8
Prototypes                                                   4.11             6.61           160.8
Institutional Development                                    4.70             6.18           131.5
LT Program                                                   0.28             0.00

Total Baseline Cost                                          9.57           15.17
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.73
                         Total Project Costs                10.30           15.17
                                        Front-end fee        0.05             0.05
                   Total Financing Required                 10.35           15.22


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             1.84         0.00          0.00         1.84
                                  (0.00)           (1.66)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.66)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         0.52          0.00         0.52
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.47)          (0.00)       (0.47)
3. Services                        0.00             0.65         0.00          4.20         4.85
Consultancies                     (0.00)           (0.65)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.65)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         1.53          0.00         1.53
Incr. Operating Costs             (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.90)          (0.00)       (0.90)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         1.11          0.00         1.11
Title Dev. Costs                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.61)          (0.00)       (0.61)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.45          0.00         0.45
Unallocated                       (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.45)          (0.00)       (0.45)
   Total                           0.00             2.49         3.61          4.20         10.30
                                  (0.00)           (2.31)      (2.43)          (0.00)       (4.74)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.53         0.00           0.00        0.53
                                  (0.00)          (0.43)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.43)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00         0.62           0.00        0.62
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.60)         (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                        0.00            0.59         0.00          10.02        10.61
Consultancies                     (0.00)          (0.59)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.59)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         2.00           0.00        2.00

                                                - 24 -

   Incr. Operating Costs                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.27)            (0.00)           (1.27)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00               1.41            0.00              1.41
   Title Dev. Costs                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.75)            (0.00)           (0.75)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00               0.05            0.00              0.05
   Unallocated                             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.05)            (0.00)           (0.05)
       Total                               0.00                1.12               4.08            10.02             15.22
                                           (0.00)             (1.02)            (2.67)            (0.00)           (3.69)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
       managing the project.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.        Bank          Govt.      CoF.       Bank      Govt.    CoF.
Policy Studies                  0.50                                  0.02         0.01       2.35        4.0
Prototypes                      3.49        1.01                      1.55         0.81       4.25       44.4      80.2
Institutional Development       0.70        0.35         3.95         2.07         0.69       3.42       295.7    197.1     86.6
LT Program                      0.05                     0.25                                             0.0                0.0
Front End Fee                   0.05                                  0.05                               100.0
Total Project Cost              4.79        1.36         4.20         3.69         1.51       10.02      77.0     111.0     238.6




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 Years      Costs    Net Benefit Ben 1 "w/o" Ben 2 "w/o" FRR net FRR "w/o"  ERR     FRR
   1         7.34       -6.67        0           0        -3.29     0      -21.89  -18.51
   2         7.80       -5.88        0           0        -3.12     0      -5.88   -2.92
   3         8.26       -4.44        0           0        -2.9      0      -4.44   -5.25
   4         8.71       -2.28        0           0        -2.64     0      -2.28   -2.64
   5         8.90        0.9       -6.67        -7.40     -2.34   -3.29     7.57    3.45
   6         0.82       8.98       -5.88        -6.66     1.82    -3.12    14.86    7.44
   7         0.82       8.98       -4.44        -5.27     3.54     -2.9    13.42    8.94
   8         0.82       8.98       -2.28        -3.15     3.54    -2.64    11.26    8.68
   9         0.82       8.98        0.9         0.01      3.54    -2.34     8.08    8.38
  10         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    1.82       0      4.22
  11         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  12         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  13         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  14         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  15         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  16         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  17         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  18         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  19         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  20         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  21         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  22         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  23         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  24         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  25         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  26         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  27         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  28         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  29         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  30         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  31         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  32         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  33         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  34         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
  35         0.82       8.98       8.98         8.98      3.54    3.54       0      2.50
                      $63.36       8.98         8.98              3.54     -8.98    2.50
                                   8.98         8.98              3.54     -8.98    2.50
                                   8.98         8.98              3.54     -8.98    2.50
         NPV Change 1 $15.02       8.98         8.98              3.54     -8.98    2.50
         NPV Change 2 $17.57      $48.34       $45.79                      7.95%  11.92%

           LIL cost    15.22
          LIL NPV 1   ($0.20)
          LIL NPV 2    $2.35




                                          - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/30/2001                6    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             LEADOPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); SR. ANTHROPOLOGIST
                                             (1); FIN. MGT. CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              07/25/2001                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             TEAM MEMBER (3)
              02/25/2002                7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SR. ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             PROP. VALUATION SPEC. (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/12/2002                6    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL (1); LAND
                                             TENURE LAW (1);
                                             PROPERTY VALUATION
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)


 Supervision
              09/25/2003                5    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             (2); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              06/11/2004                6    SR. LAND POLICY SPEC. (1);       S               S
                                             SR. ENVIR. ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR. FINAN. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              12/03/2004                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); CO         S               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1); SNR FM
                                             SPEC (1); PROC SPEC (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)

 ICR
              03/28/2005                5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S               S



                                              - 27 -

                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                               (1); FAO/CONSULTANT
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                               FINAN. SPECIALIST(1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   -                        443.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        -                             -
  Supervision                                  -                        451.1
  ICR                                          -                             -
  Total                                        -                        894.6
Above included Bank-financed and Trust Fund consultants




                                               - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.  Project Completion Report, October 2004, Land Equity International (Australian
    Managing Contractor for TA to LAMP) and LAMP PMO.
2.  Policy Studies Integration Report, August 2002, Government of Philippines.
3.  Fees and Finance Policy Study Report on Finance and Fees on Real Property, July
    2002, Land Equity International (Australian Managing Contractor for TA to LAMP).
4.  Land Valuation Policy Study Report, June 2002, Land Equity International (Australian
    Managing Contractor for TA to LAMP).
5.  Land Valuation Policy Study Report, Volume 2, July 2002, Land Equity International
    (Australian Managing Contractor for TA to LAMP).
6.  Land Laws and Regulations Policy Study, Final Report, Volume 1, July 2002,
    Department of Justice, Land Equity International (Australian Managing Contractor for
    TA to LAMP).
7.  Land Laws and Regulations Policy Study, Final Report, Volume 2, July 2002,
    Department of Justice, Land Equity International (Australian Managing Contractor for
    TA to LAMP).
8.  Institutional Arrangements Policy Study, July 2002, Land Equity International
    (Australian Managing Contractor for TA to LAMP).
9.  Institutional Arrangements Policy Study, Annexes, June 2002, Land Equity
    International (Australian Managing Contractor for TA to LAMP).
10. Land Administration Reform Bill 2003, June 2003, Government of the Philippines.
11. Land Administration Reform Act, Progress Report, June 2003, Government of the
    Philippines.
12. DENR Administrative Order No. 2002-13, June 2002, Government of the Philippines.
13. Country Assistance Strategy 1999-2002, Report No. 19355-PH, May 11, 1999
14. Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2005, Report No. 24042-PH, April 30, 2004
15. Informal Policy Note, May 19, 1998
16. Project Inception Report, July 29, 1999
17. Project Concept Document (PCD), October 6, 1999
18. Project Appraisal Document (PAD), September 20, 2000
19. Project Completion Report, Vol 1, & 2 December 2004
20. Integrated Lessons Report, September 2004, Report E40
21. Activity Completion Report, December 2004, Report E41
22. Aide-Memoires (January 30, 2001; July 25, 2001; February 25, 2002; August 12, 2002;
    February 20, 2003; September 25, 2003; March 12, 2004; June 11, 2004; December 12, 2004)
23. Project Status Reports (November 14, 2000; February 14, 2001; August 14, 2001;
    March 11, 2002; August 21, 2002; March 27, 2003; September 30, 2003; March 23, 2004
    June 29, 2004; December 16, 2004)




                                                - 31 -

- 32 -

