Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13514
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2223-TUN)
SEPTEMBER 12, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1 SUS (1982)       -  0.500 TD
1 $US (1989)       -  0.903 TD
1 SUS current      -  0.966 TD
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)              .     39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (m2)      -     10.9 square feet (Eq ft)
1 kilometer (km)         -     0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)           .     10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
1 acre                   -     4,047 m2 or 0.405 ha
1 kilogram (kg)          -     2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 pound (lb)             .     0.454 kg
1 ton (metric)           -     2,205 lbs or 1,000 kgs
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFH         Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (Land Development Agency)
ARRU        Agence pour la R6habilitation et la R6novation Urbaine (Urban Upgrading
and Renewal Agency)
ASM         Association pour la Sauvegarde de la Medina (Association for the
Safeguard of Medina)
BCT         Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BDET        Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (Economic Development
Bank)
BH          Banque de l'Habitat (Housing Bank)
CNEL        Caisse National d'Epargne-Logement (National Housing and Savings Fund)
CPSCL       Caisse de PrAts et de Soutien des Collectivites Locales (Local
Communities Support Fund)
FOPROLOS    Fonds Social pour la Promotion du Logement des Salari6s (Workers'
Housing Fund)
MOE         MinistAre. de l'Equipement (Ministry of Equipment)
MOH         Ministare de l'Habitat (Ministry of Housing)
MOINT       Minist6re de l'Int6rieur (Ministry of Interior)
MOPF        MinistAre du Plan et des Finances (Ministry of Planning and Finance)
MTC         Ministare du Transport et des Communications (Ministry of Transport and
Communications)
ONAS        Office National d'Assainissement (National Sewerage Authority)
SNIT        Soci6t6 Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie (National Real Estate Company)
SONEDE      Soci6th Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (National
Water Production and Distribution Company)
SPROLS      Soci6t6 de Promotion des Logements Sociaux (Social Housing Company)
STEG        Societ6 Tunisienne d'Electricit6 et de Gaz (Public Electricity and Gas
Company)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 12, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Third Urban Development Project
(Loan 2223-TUN)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Third Urban Development Project (Loan
2223-TUN)" prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. It highlights the importance of well resourced
coordinator mechanisms where project organizations are complex as well as the need to involve
beneficiaries and private land developers to ensure sustainability.
The institutional framework caused numerous delays as different agencies were responsible for
credit, land acquisition, roads, drainage and rehabilitation. Predictable difficulties were encountered in
the implementation of cost recovery measures due to the fact that the project operated within an urban
context where raising taxes is not a tradition.
Through flexible adaptation, the project achieved its objectives of improving housing and urban
services for low-income families, strengthening the urban renewal agencies and ensuring better
coordination between them, and promoting the implementation of a national approach to housing policy
formulation. Project objectives were accomplished through rehabilitation of substandard settlements,
development of serviced lots and the provision of housing credit.
The project underwent many changes (mostly beneficial) in the content of its components. The
two most important amendments were the extension of the rehabilitation component to two more
Governorates and the introduction of a new component consisting of a special sewerage project for
substandard settlements as part of a national program. The Loan Agreement was amended three times
without changing the amount of the loan. The project was successful in the implementation of its physical
components, and in several areas exceeded appraisal expectations.
On balance, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development impact is
rated as modest (due to the positive impact of technical assistance on key urban renewal agencies yet
negligible impact on municipalities' ability to pay for urban renewal), and the sustainability of its policy
approach is uncertain due to the lack of progress on cost recovery. The PCR is of good quality. An audit
is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2223-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Implementation  .£..  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Results ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ii
Sustainability   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ii
Findings and Lessons Learned   ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .          iii
Overall Project Assessment   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1
Project Objectives and Description  ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  2
A. Urban Upgrading ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
B. S5tes and services, and housing credit   . . . . . . . . . .                   3
C. R.evitalization of Hafsia  ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  S
D. Technical Assistance   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Project Design and Organization   ...  .            .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Project Implementation  ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  5
Project Results   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .     ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Project Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    9
Sustainability of the Project   ...  .            .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   11
Performance of the Borrower   ...  .           .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
Performance of the Consultants  ...  .            .  .    . .....  .   .  .  .  .    .  11
Lessons and Recommendations   ...  .           .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
A. Complexity of the Project ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
B. The Land Issue   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  12
C. Cost Recovery ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
D. Resettlement   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
E. Procurema.it ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Documentation and data  ......................                                        14



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction  . .  . . . . .  . .  . . .  . . . .  . .  . .  . .  . . .                             15
Project  Design  .  . . . . .  . .  . . .  . .  . .  . .  . .  .  . . . .                           15
Project  Implementation  . .  . .  . . .  . . . .  . .  . . .  . . . .                              16
Project  Impact  .  . . . . .  . .  . . . .  . . .  .   .  .  .   .   .  .  .                       17
Achievement  of Objectives  and  Lessons  to be  Learned    .  . . . .                              18
PART III: STATISTICAL PART
Related  Bank  Loans  . . .  . .  . . . . . . .  . .  . .  . . . .  . .                             20
Project  Timetable    . . . . .  . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . .                              22
Loan  Disbursement    . . .  . .  . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . .                              23
Cumulative  Estimated  and Actual  Disbursements  . .  . .  . .  .                             23
Time  Line  of  Planned  & Actual  Disbursement  Schedule  .  . . .                            25
Project  Execution    . .  . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . .  .                              26
Project  Costs  and  Financing    . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . .  . .                              28
Status  of Loan  Covenants  . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . .  . .                               29
Bank  Resources  Utilization  .  . . .  . . . .  . . . . .  . .  . .  .                             32
A.  Staff  Inputs  . .  . . .  . . . . .  . .  . . . . .  . .  .  . .                           32
B.  Missi.ns  . .  . .  . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . .  . . . .  . .                            32
PICTURES  OF THE  SITES ...  .                .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .     .  33
This Project Completion ReFort is based on the findings of desk and field work. The field mission was held
in Tunisia on March 1994. Mrs. Dalila Tadjerouni (Urban and Regional Planner, task manager) prepared the
report under the supervision of Amir Al-Khafaji, Division Chief, MNlIN, and Daniel Ritchie, Director, MN1DR.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2223-TUN)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report describes the results of the analysis of the
Third Urban Development Project from its preparation to its completion. The project
was financed through Loan Agreement 2223-TUN in the amount of US$25 million, which was
signed on January 11, 1983 and became effective on September 8, 1983.   The Loan
Agreement was amended three times in order to adjust for new activities without
changing the amount of the loan. The loan was closed June 30, 1993, with disbursements
of US$24.55 million.
Parts I and III of this report were prepared by the Infrastructure Division
of the Maghreb and Iran Department, Middle East and North Africa Region, and Part II
by the Borrower.
The preparation of this report is based on the Evaluation Report, the Loan
Agreement and other legal documents, information from the files of the EMENA
Information Center, supervision missions, and fund availability reports.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2223-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The project's major objectives were to assist the Tunisian authorities to:
(a) design and implement projects providing better shelter and improved urban services
for low-income families; (b) redress inequities in housing policy in order to reach
the segment of the population who could not afford housing with adequate urban services
as provided by the public sector;   (c)  strengthen the institutional framework of
agencies involved in the urban and housing sectors and ensure better coordination
between them; and  (d) promote the implementation of a national approach to housing
planning and policy formulation (para. 3.01).
2.        These objectives were to be accomplished through four main components:  (a)
rehabilitation and urban upgrading of substandard settlements in four municipalities;
(b) development of serviced lots (sites and services) and the provision of housing
credit for the construction of on-site dwellings; (c) revitalization of an old part
of the Medina of Tunis (Hafsia); and   (d)  technical assistance to the   involved
institutions (para. 3.02).
Implementation
3.        Loan  effectiveness  took  place  nine  months  after  Board  approval  and
disbursement started one more year later (para. 5.01). The closing date was postponed
three times extending the life of the project by three years. Overall, the execution
of most project components was delayed due to a slow start up and the introduction of
various changes  (para. 5.04). The project had undergone, throughout its life, many
amendments and changes in the content of most of its components.  These amendments
were, however, beneficial to the project as they allowed a better use of the loan and
the accomplishment of more activities.  The two most important amendments were the
extension of the rehabilitation component to two more governorates and the introduction
of a new component consisting of a special sewerage project for substandard settlements
as part of a national program launched in 1989 (para. 5.03).
4.        The execution  of the rehabilitation works  was,  in general,  performed
smoothly. The implementation of the Hafsia component was successful and achieved more
than initially planned. The mites and services component had known some difficulties
tied to the land factor (para. 5.07) and part of the technical assistance activities,
especially the studies and the computerization project for the Ministry of Transport,
was considerably delayed.  The works related to the "special sewerage project, were
satisfactorily implemented.



- iii -
Results
5.        The project was successful in the implementation of its physical components.
The rehabilitation program affected about 1,500 ha and improved the living conditions
of 220,000 low-income, substandard settlement inhabitants, reaching a three-fold
increase in the number of beneficiaries planned at appraisal. Under the project 1866
serviced lots were developed and 2,444 loans were provided for self help housing
construction and extension (para.6.03 & 6.05). Through the "special sewerage project",
which involved 80 urban sites throughout the country, 20,000 house connections were
completed. Accomplishments made under the Hafsia component were also beyond appraisal
expectations. This included 163 residential units, 53 commercial units, community
facilities and offices.
6.        Innovative financial measures were introduced in the framework of this project
and were successfully implemented in the case of Hafsia which was designed on a self-
financing basis.   The floor space built was sold at market value and the profit
generated was used to replenish a Special Account created in order to recycle the funds
and allow further rehabilitation/renovation works to be undertaken. However, little
success was achieved in other financial areas of the project, notably, the cost
recovery for the rehabilitation and housing credit components. The tax that would have
been levied on the beneficiaries and which would have recovered a sizable part of the
loans  granted  by  the  State  to  the  municipalities,  failed  to  be  established.
Consequently, the repayment of these loans by both the municipalities and the Housing
Bank was hampered (para.6.07).
7.        On the institutional side, the main result of the project was the creation
of an institution for urban upgrading and renewal, ARRU or "Agence de Rehabilitation
et de Renovation Urbaine".   ARRU was able to intervene in urban projects rapidly,
operating under private law and financial autonomy. ARRU was the main executing agency
of the project. It greatly benefitted from the project in strengthening its capacities
and, hence, building its experience and human resource base, performing its role and
responsibilities satisfactorily throughout the life of the project as well as extending
institutional support to the municipalities, regional departments and private
developers involved in the execution of the project.
sustainability
8.        Many activities developed under this project could  be replicated  in their
technical and, to a reasonable extent, institutional aspects as well. This is the case
for the upgrading/renovation works, the sanitation and sewerage program and undoubtly
the Hafaia operation. It is, however, clear that financial sustainability is a crucial
condition to the replicability of urban projects, especially in the current situation
of shrinking public resources. Unless realistic mechanisms are designed to warrant the
implementation of cost recovery policies, the institutional and financial viability
of urban projects will remain an impediment to the development of this sector.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.        This project  falls within the  "Christmas tree" type of urban projects
characterized by a complex design, numerous and diverse activities to implement, an
ambitious set of objectives, and the involvement of many agencies and operators.
Furthermore, the implementation arrangements were complicated an all these agencies



- iv -
were made to function and interact within an ambiguous division of responsibilities
which led to further complication in the exercise of these responsibilities during the
life of the project causing additional difficulties and delays  (para.12.02).   In
addition to these drawbacks tied to the complexity of the project, a major deficiency
remains the cost recovery aspect resulting in poor results due to insufficient
preparation and unrealistic design.   Furthermore, it is worth noting that previous
experience in this particular field did not seem to have been taken into account.
Overall Prolect Assessment
10.                   Despite this, the project achieved its physical and to a lesser
extent institutional goals. Overall, the project did extreme"r well under such
circumstances,  thanks  to  the  Government  and  Bank  commitment   nd  perseverance;
especially ARRU who had challenged its capacities to make the most out of this complex
but innovative project.   Therefore, this project's implementation can be considered
satisfactory.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2223-TUN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Project Identity
Project Title   : Third Urban Development Project
Loan No.         :  2223-TUN
Amount           : US$25 Million
Region           : Middle East and North Africa
Country          : Tunisia
Sector           s  Infrastructure
Sub-Sector       s Housing and Land Management
2.      Proj ect Background
2.01    During the last three decades urban growth in Tunisia has been characterized
by relatively rapid population increase. The urban population accounted in 1980, for
about 55 percent of Tunisian's total population of 6.6 million inhabitants.  This
urbanization rate was due, in particular for the period between 1975 and 1980, to a
massive influx of immigrant workers and an intensive internal migration from the
country to the urban areas. This migratory movement coupled with a relatively high
rate of population growth and of family formation, resulted in unusual pressure on
existing urban structures leading to a deterioration of the urban environment in the
city centers and in their immediate suburbs.
2.02    The housing situation rapidly deteriorated during this same period (1975-1980).
The urban housing stock, which consisted of 423,850 units in 1975, grew by 30 percent
at the end of the period but this growth did not keep pace with the housing demand.
The housing production capacities of the public sector could not meet the constantly
growing demand.   Consequently,  the housing occupation rate rose from 1.2 to 1.5
households per unit. During the period 1975-1980, about 82 percent (61 percent in terms
of investment) of the housing stock built was built by the private sector, of which,
52 percent was attributed to the informal construction sector. The participation of
the public sector represented 18 percent of the total housing units built (34 percent
of investments).
2.03    The capacity demonstrated by the private sector to finance housing programs
through savings and other contributions was substantial. However, housing offered by
the public sector was not always accessible to the median urban family (with an income
of about TD 110 per month) despite subsidization.   The housing developers--Soci6te
Nationale Immobilibre de Tunisie (SNIT), Agence Foncibre d'Habitation (AFH), Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (CNEL), Fonds Social pour la Promotion du Logement des



Salaries (FROPOLOS)' which in the 1970's executed the government's programs, did not
succeed due to their ineffective operating system in accommodating the low-income
groups (TD 100 per month). One of the objectives of the project was to respond to the
needs of this section of the Tunisian urban population.
2.04    In the domain of infrastructure, access to the basic services (water, gas,
electricity) was considerably enhanced at the end of the 1970's thanks to the efforts
undertaken by STEG and SONEDE in the urban areas.   Sanitation, however, remained a
problem; ONAS was only recently created. Overall, only 8 percent of urban housing did
not meet the standards, and were mainly located in substandard settlements in 1980.
The main challenge, therefore consisted of upgrading the existing informal and slum
settlements, catering for the new housing demand, and providing integrated site
developments and urban services.   This constituted one of the aims of the project.
2.05    The Bank has maintained a constant dialogue with the Tunisian authorities in
the urban sector since 1966 through six water supply projects, two sanitation projects,
and two urban development projects.   These projects greatly contributed to the
improvement of the provision of urban services in several municipalities. The Second
Urban Project (2nd UDP), in particular, played an important role in introducing a new
approach to the prevailing urban intervention policy, notably the rehabilitation of
substandard settlements rather than their demolition, and the development of site and
service programs as an economic and affordable solution to improve the living standards
of the low-income groups.
2.06    The housing sector study conducted in 1982 by the Ministry of Housing (MOH) and
the Bank, indicated that the main problems faced by the sector were: (a) the lack of
reasonably-priced land for housing; (b) the complexity of the institutional framework;
(c) the inadequacy between the existing financing and the housing savings programs; (d)
the inability of public programs to reach low-income families and; (e) the lack of
attention regarding the spatial implications of urban interventions.
3.      Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.01    Pro-ect Obiectives.    In line with the priorities  adopted by the Sixth
Development Plan and the Bank's strategy, the objectives of the Project were to assist
the Tunisian authorities to:   (a)  design and implement projects providing better
shelter and improved urban services for low-income families; (b) redress inequities
in housing policy in order to reach the segment of the population which could not
afford housing with adequate urban services as provided by the public sector;   (c)
strengthen the institutional framework of agencies involved in the urban and housing
sectors  and  ensure  better  coordination  between  them  and;    (d)  promote  the
implementation of a national approach to housing planning and policy formulation.
1/      AFH, whose mission was land development, offered lots of 200 to 400 m2 for
which it expected payment in advance. Consequently, this program was only
accessible to middle-income families. SNIT produced "key-in-hand" housing
which was plagued by delays and which was therefore elevated in price.
CNEL, whose role was to use housing savings, did not succeed in mobilizing
the savings in its program for low-income families. FROPOLOS reinforced
CNEL, but with a program unavailable to low-income families.



- 3 -
3.02    Prolect Description.  The main components of the project were the following:
A.  Urban Upgrading.   This component concerned the improvement of living
conditions in substandard settlements inhabited by the low-income population in the
municipalities of Effadhamen, Jendouba, La Goulette and Le Kef. It consisted of: (a)
improving and extending the infrastructure network, including primary and secondary
roads, water, sewerage, storm water drainage, electricity and connections to utility
networks;    (b)  providing  community  facilities  and  services  (primary  schools,
playgrounds, community centers, and health centers); and (c) providing loans through
CNEL for home extension and the construction of 400 housing units on infill plots.
B. Sites and Services, and Housing Credit. This consisted of a line of credit
under which beneficiaries would be offered a single package enabling them to purchase
a developed site and obtain a loan for construction of a dwelling. This program aimed
to produce 1,600 equipped lots on the identified sites of Ettadhamen, Zghadia
(Jendouba) and Sidri Chiri (Le Kef).
C.  Revitalization of Hafsia.   Hafsia is part of the old Medina quarter,
consisting of traditional housing and a majority of residents who are poor and of rural
origin.   The project concentrated on:   (a) the development and improvement of the
infrastructure and the various networks; (b) construction by the Municipality, as a
model for development, of some residential and commercial buildings on part of the
vacant land; (c) the development of approximately 1.2 ha of land and its sale by the
municipality to private developers for the construction of hotels, residential and
commercial buildings and; (d) the renovation of about 47,000 sqm of residential floor
space in the most needy parts of the quarter, as well as the construction of 135 new
housing units on infill plots, and the expansion of a few existing buildings.
D. Technical Assistance. This component mainly concerned the institutional
strengthening of the entities involved in the execution of the project and those in
charge of the urban and housing sectors. It includes: (a) providing assistance to
ARRU for the technical and financial aspects in the conception, preparation and
implementation of urban projects through a program of four man-years of expert
services;   (b)   two man-years of expert services in   urban planning to MOH;  (c)
assistance to MOH for the execution of pre-investment studies for the preparation of
future urban projects and the establishment of an urban data bank; (d) training through
scholarships and expertise of local authorities' staff in urban planning, engineering
and finance and; (e) assistance to the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC)
for the financing of pre-investment studies for the preparation of future urban
transport projects.
4.      Project Design and Organization
4.01    Both through its objectives and its timely planning,  the project was an
appropriate and opportune response to the on-going preoccupations of the Borrower and
the Bank, regarding sector policy. The Sixth Plan was in fact initiating a change in
housing sector intervention which was considered to be one of the priorities for
levelling social inequalities. Following the observation that the public programs had
mostly benefitted, until then, the relatively well-off families and the civil servants,
the subsidized programs of the Sixth Plan had to be targeted more towards the low-
income groups in order to satisfy their urgent needs. The remaining housing demand was



to be dealt with by the private sector whose participation was encouraged through
putting in place a number of necessary incentives.
4.02    During this period, the strategy of the Bank was to encourage balanced growth
and distribution between regions and the different social groups through operations
targeting the low-income population.   The Banks'  urban loan program in Tunisia
concentrated on long-term investments in operations dealing with social and urban
development, notably, through infrastructure.   The present project fell into this
category and fostered the continuation of efforts begun in previous projects by
extending them to the housing sector.
4.03    The concept of the project was, on the whole, a continuation of the 2nd UDP
which had already prepared the ground work for a long-term program of action in this
field. The latter included the renovation and development of sites and services in the
substandard settlements of Tunis and Sfax. The experience of this project helped in the
conception and preparation of the present project, and permitted, as a prime example,
the adoptlon of the "self-help construction" formula on serviced sites rather than the
"core-housing" system as was the case in the 2nd UDP. Furthermore, the new approach
to the urban low-income housing issue introduced by the 2nd UDP (para. 2.05) had been
well-received in Tunisia and had inspired a demand for similar operations. Therefore,
the concept of the 3rd UDP had been approved and understood by all concerned parties.
4.04    The project  introduced  innovative elements  into the design and mode of
implementation, especially for certain components. The Hafsia operation was conceived
with the intention of involving the owners in the renovation and extension of their
properties  by  helping them  financially  and technically.    It  also enabled  the
participation of the private sector in the renovation of an old neighborhood, thereby
minimizing the cost for the government and creating an interest for the historic sites
often considered the sole responsibility of the State. The loans granted through the
"sites and services" component combined in a single financial operation both the
purchase of a serviced lot and the construction of a housing unit on this lot; thus,
achieving, for the first time, economy of time and procedures,  and assuring the
realization of a decent building on the plot.
4.05    The execution and overall coordination of the project, as well as the liaison
with the Bank were mainly ARRU's responsibility.   The most important tasks of the
execution were shared as follows: (a) for the rehabilitation component, sites located
in the municipalities of Kef and Jendouba as well as Ettadhamen and La Goulette in the
District of Tunis were within the responsibility of  the ARRUI (b)  for the Hafaia
component, the municipality of Tunis delegated to ARRU the responsibility of
implementing the rehabilitation and the first phase of the new construction program;
(c) the CNEL and the AFH were responsible for the housing credit and site development
components, respectively: (d) the municipalities, with the assistance of ARRU and MOH
were responsible for road maintenance, drainage, street lighting, and the disposal of
solid waste. The renovation works in Hafsia were to be completed by the municipality
of Tunis helped by its agencies;  (e)  the management of the technical assistance
program was the joint responsibility of ARRU, MOH and MTC; and (f) the Caisse de Prats
et de Soutien des Collectivites Locales (CPSCL) was in charge of the loan program to
the municipalities.



-5-
5.      Proiect Implementation
5.01    Loan Effectiveness and Start of the Prolect.  The loan was approved on December
16, 1982 and signed on January 11, 1983.  The signature of the Subsidiary Loan and
Management Agreement between respectively CPSCL and the Tunisian Government, and
between the latter and the CNEL, constituted conditions of loan effectiveness.  The
latter which was set for April, 1983, did not take place until September 8, 1983
because of delays caused by the preparation of the Agreements and legal opinion.
Launching of the bidding related to the first works (infrastructure) of the project's
implementation schedule had also been delayed for more than one year due to
difficulties encountered in the acquisition of the land needed in the project and, to
some extent, the redesign of the technical studies prepared few years ago for a better
selection of intervention sites.
5.02    Proiect Amendments.  Three major amendments were adopted in the project (page
7 of Part III). These amendments resulted in considerable extensions and additions in
the activities of the project for the same loan amount by using the surplus generated
by the appreciation of the dollar in relation to the dinar (from US$1 - TD 0.500 in
November 1982 to US$1 = TD 0.780 in November 1985).
5.03    These amendments allowed for financing of computer equipment for MOH, ARRU,
CPSCL and CNEL. Community facilities were programmed (commercial center at Le Ref and
later a health center in Hafsia) as well as site servicing and housing credit for an
additional land area of 40 hectares in the district of Tunis, 30 hectares in the
municipality of Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher, and 4 hectares in the municipality of La
Goulette. The two most important changes of these amendments were the extension of the
rehabilitation component to two other governorates within the country, Gafsa and B6ja,
and the introduction in 1989 of a new component called "Projet Sp6cial d'Assainissement
des Quartiers Populaires". This project, to be implemented by ONAS, was destined to
emphasize the sewerage dimension of a large national sanitation program in several ill-
serviced urban areas throughout the country.
5.04    Plannina and Implementation Schedule.   The closing date of the project was
originally set for June 30, 1990, but was extended three times, the last extension
brought it to June 30, 1993. Although this extension was justified by the introduction
of the new components requested by the Borrower, a relatively important delay
characterized the overall execution of the project. This delay was due to the slow
pace of the start-up of the project, the heavy and cumbersome administrative procedures
and the land problems encountered on the development sites. On the whole, the start
and execution of most project components were set back an average of two years. Some
experienced even more serious delays. This was particularly the case for the sites and
services component, the related housing credit component, and the community facilities.
As far as the latter are concerned, difficulties of coordination and programming of
these activities with the recipient ministries, notably the Ministries of Health and
Sport, had led to the cancelling of many community facilities such a. sport halls.
Problems encountered by certain agencies in carrying out their responsibilities, as
well as difficulties in the coordination of project activities between the various
institutions involved, had also contributed to the late execution.
5.05    Rehabilitation.  This component concerned eight intervention areas:  Kram Ouest
(La Goulette), Ettadhamen, Douar Hicher, Zghaidia (Jendouba), Sidi-Chrichi (Le Kef),
Moalla (Gafsa), Mzara (Beja) et Ras Tabia (Meharzia). In general, the infrastructure



-6-
works were completed smoothly, except for the site of Ettadhamen where the construction
of the roadway and the primary sanitation system was blocked for several months because
of technical difficulties related to the existing infrastructure.
5.06    Hafsia Rehabilitation.   The execution of this component was considered as
successful by both professionals and the general public. In addition to the extension
of the project area to other neighborhoods of the Medina for the provision of housing
credits, 163 residential units were constructed under the project and all were sold.
Commercial units were also built (53) and few remain to be sold (8). Public (Societ6
de Promotion des Logements Sociaux--SPROLS) and private developers implemented, with
success, the planned construction program. ARRU undertook the execution of a program
totaling 53 housing units, 16 commercial units, 9 offices and 1 coffee house.  The
renovation program had achieved such good results both technically and financially that
the municipality of Tunis replicated the operation (under a different program) to
renovate 600 oukalas - decayed traditional apartment buildings within the Medina owned
by the municipality - thus, benefitting some 800 families.
5.07    Sites and Services.  The implementation of this component was impaired by two
major elements: the land factor and the performance of AFH. Works on most sites could
not begin before 1986. The acquisition of land from private owners caused serious
problems, the "expropriation a l'amiable" did not produce the expected results. The
promulgation of the expropriation for public utility decrees was not sufficient to
convince some of the land owners who were unwilling/recalcitrant to have their land
compulsory purchased. The recourse to court procedures had the disadvantage of further
deteriorating already deadlocked situations, causing significant delays in the start
of the works on the development sites. The AFH, on its part, requested an advanced
payment of 20 to 30 percent of the total cost of the lot from the beneficiaries.
Furthermore, AFH was, for a long time, reluctant to get involved in the development of
lots for beneficiaries for whom the advanced payment represented a significant sum of
money. Throughout the execution of the project, the implementation rate of this agency
was much lower than originally estimated. Consequently, the program was reduced. Of
the 2,200 lots initially planned to be developed by AFH, only 1,866 were delivered.
Delays were also caused by additional infrastructure work that needed to be done in
order to make the connections to the rehabilitated networks. Inefficient site
management is also worth mentioning. Moreover, for certain developments, beneficiaries
were allowed to take possession of their lots before the work had finished, and
sometimes before the work had even begun.
5.08    Housing Construction and Extension Loans.  As loans were granted based on the
allocation of serviced lots, the delays experienced in the development of sites
affected the activities of CNEL/Banque de l'Habitat (BH), responsible for loan granting
and management.   The paperwork for Loan approval was difficult to assemble for
beneficiaries of modest social and economic means, but CNEL/BH proved to be flexible
enough to significantly simplify the procedures and conditions of loan attribution.
Although less than originally estimated, a significant number (4,118) of loans were
given for the purchase of the serviced lots and housing construction and extension.
These loans were made with subsidized interest rates, enabling households earning less
than US$100 per month to take advantage of this opportunity. However, there was room
for improved management of these loans and a better assistance to the beneficiaries.
5.09    Technical Assistance.  Seven percent of the Bank loan was earmarked to finance
technical assistance as described in para. 3.02D. Bilateral Italian aid constituted



an important part of this component, which consisted of training, provision of
specialists for ARRU and the MOH and the execution of studies (rehabilitation studies
and reference plans for Gabes, Tozeur and Nafta). The technical assistance component
of the project was used for: (a) Urban transport studies which would serve other Bank-
financed projects already in preparation, notably the Second Urban Transport Project;
(b) the purchase of computer equipment for MTC, MOH, ARRU, CNEL and CPSCL; (c) studies
of the housing rental market for the Direction de l'Habitat, the computerization of its
financial and land data and rehabilitation studies for the 4th UDP. Assistance to MTC
for the execution of the studies was delayed, as well as that for the implementation
of the computerization project for which the equipment was ordered only in June, 1993.
The program realized by the "Direction G6n6rale des Transports Terrestres" consisted
of studies on the improvement of urban transport management, establishment of a
national training program for the transport sector and the opening up of the latter to
the private sector. It also included the execution of two studies for setting up an
action program geared towards improving the quality and quantity of urban transport
provision in Sousse and Sfax. It was possible to use the undisbursed funds allotted to
MTC for the technical assistance for conducting a training program and investments
studies at the level of the municipal authorities within the framework of the Municipal
Development Project. USAID had also contributed to the finance rehabilitation studies
in Gafsa and Kasrine.
5.10    "Proiet Special d'Assainissement". The activities in this new component of the
project introduced by the July 1989 amendment totaled US$7 million and were
satisfactorily implemented. The experience gained in the execution of the preceding
components had favorably served the implementation of the works and the management of
the project by both ARRU and ONAS.
5.11    Procurement.  Overall, there were no major difficulties with procurement. Due
to the nature and diversity of the works involved, only contracts above US$800,000 were
subject to international competitive bidding in conformity with Bank rules and
procedures. For the remaining contracts, local competitive bidding was permitted with
the prior approval of the Bank for those contracts over US$350,000. In the Medina and
due to access difficulties, the rehabilitation works, grouped into an amount of not
more than US$2 million, were executed by the municipality of Tunis after Bank approval.
However, a few irregularities in the way the contracts were processed were observed in
the beginning, consisting of: (a) some contractors were invited to start the works
before the contracts had been formally awarded; (b) sometimes, payments exceeding the
contracted amounts were made and advanced payments were recorded without supporting
documents; (c) delays in the bidding invitations and the processing of the contracts
and, consequently, in the execution of the works did occur frequently.   It should also
be noted that there were, in some cases, discrepancies between the payments and the
disbursement requests presented to the Bank due to the lengthy and cumbersome payment
approval process, especially at the municipal level. This resulted in a gap between the
physical works executed and the actual payments made to the contractors.
6.      Proiect Results
6.01    Project Costs and Disbursements.   The total cost of the project including
contingencies and the front-end fee was estimated in the appraisal report at US$60.1
million equivalent or TD 30.1 million. The Bank loan amounted to US$25.0 million. By
the end of 1989, the project amount reached TD 41.7 million due to the devaluation of
the local currency (table on page 9 of Part III).  The cancellation of a sizeable



- 8 -
amount of the loan (about US$8.6 million) was, therefore, expected. The project had,
nevertheless, succeeded in using up the entire loan amount through the successive
amendments to the loan agreement (section 5.02). The final cost of the project was
TD 42.2 million (Table in page 9, Part III).
6.02    Disbursements as indicated in table 3 (page 4 Part III) reached, at
closing date, 98.2 percent of the total loan amount. They were, however, slow and below
appraisal estimates with an average gap of 31 percent per year. This was due to the
delays in execution of the project during the first two years and to the appreciation
of the US dollar against the Tunisian Dinar. It should be noted though, that the
initial disbursement estimates were rather optimistic.   The standard disbursement
profile of Tunisia (page 6, Part III), was closer to the actual disbursement curve than
the estimated one, especially for the first years of the project.
6.03    Implementation of Proiect Obiectives.  Overall,  the objectives of the project
were met as far as the physical components are concerned. The scope of the project was
greatly enriched by the successive amendments. Indeed, not only were the initial
project components successfully implemented but some were redesigned and others added
to make the project achieve more than expected. In particular, within the context of
urban services improvement for the low income population, a major objective of the
project, it was possible to increase the number of beneficiaries from the 77,000
initially targeted to 220,000, a three fold increase with the same dollar budget and
a relatively limited additional implementation period.
6.04    The project proved to be flexible in its execution and its capacity to make the
best of unexpected factors as they arose. The devaluation of the dinar was used to
increase project activities, which in turn kept the level of disbursement constant
rather than decreasing. The decision to link the project, half way through, to the
nationwide sewerage program launched by the President of the Republic in 1989, and its
effective and timely contribution to the achievement of a sizeable part of this program
allowed the project, while closely following its initial objectives, to accomplish much
more and adapt to the changing conditions.
6.05    Physical Accomplishments. Quantitatively, the achievements of the project were
impressive. Thus, the rehabilitation program for the entire eight areas had allowed
interventions on about 1,500 ha including the creation of 443 infill lots in order to
increase the density of the existing urban fabric. New plots were developed on 9 sites
with the creation of 1866 serviced lots. At Hafsia, the achievements encompassed not
only the entire planned program for the initial project area but also new extensions
identified during implementation. The total number of approved housing credit loans
reached 2,444 of which 1,500 were for housing construction and extension, and 944 for
self help housing. Finally, the sewerage program for 80 urban sites ( 8 sites more
than initially planned), throughout the country, had allowed the connection of 20,000
households to the different networks.
6.06    Financial Aspects.  The project introduced innovative measures in financing and
cost recovery.   For example, the conceptual framework of Hafsia was based on self
financing with a minimum contribution from the State which would have been paid back
upon completion. The operation proved to be very profitable. The sale to the private
developers of apartments and commercial spaces constructed, as well as the equipped
lots generated a cash amount of US$5 million equivalent. These profits were used to



replenish a Special Account, created within the municipality of Tunis to be recycled,
and finance additional rehabilitation works for both privately owned and municipal
buildings. This has also allowed the repayment of the loans made by the State/CPSCL
to the municipality.
6.07    Except for the financial success which has characterized the Hafsia component,
the project has nevertheless failed in the recovery of costs, especially in the setting
up of the "contribution des riverains" - tax administered by the municipality for the
recovery of the rehabilitation costs. The revenues generated by this tax would have
recovered an important part of the loan granted to the municipalities by CPSCL.
Despite ARRU's commendable efforts to sensitize the municipalities and provide them
with the necessary technical support regarding this question, the decrees establishing
this tax were not published (except for the municipality of Kram Ouest-La Goulette).
Similarly, the repayment of the loans by the beneficiaries for the self help
construction and housing improvement, two years before the project's closing date was
still low, amounting to less than 25 percent of the amounts due to CNEL/BH. It is only
at the end of the project and through legal means against beneficiaries in default that
the collection rate of CNEL/BH reached 30 percent. Although, the supervision missions
had persistently raised this issue, the Tunisian administration failed to take charge
of this aspect of the project, and so did the Bank by not taking firm measures to make
them comply with this important covenant.
7.      Proiect ImRact
7.01    Institutional ImDact.  ARRU was the institution that had most benefitted from
the project in strengthening its organizational, managerial, project monitoring, and
urban planning capacities. In fact, it is through the execution of the 3rd UDP (and
later the 4th UDP) that the ARRU built its experience and human resource base. The
project helped in the training of ARRU's manpower, its computerization, the
strengthening of its financial management and its technical capacity. ARRU, had also
contributed in the institutional support to the municipalities and regional departments
by training their staff involved in the project and sharing with them the experience
gained throughout the implementation of the project. CNEL had been reorganized during
the project life and within the context of the 5th UDP became a banking institution,
the Housing Bank (BH).
7.02    Furthermore, the project benefitted 500 public servants from the different
institutions involved in the project in a program of training courses and seminars.
The recipients of this training program included 124 professionals from the
municipalities, 76 from the ministries of housing and equipment, 40 from ARRU, 27 from
SNIT, and 15 from AFH.   The latter also strengthened, through this project,  its
financial and technical capacities by the establishment of a new department responsible
for the implementation of the 3rd UDP.
7.03    Environmental and Social Impact.  The physical interventions of the project
(rehabilitation and sanitation works) significantly improved the environmental and
living conditions of what used to be squatter areas. These settlements, the product
of uncontrolled urbanization, would have, in the context of a water shortage, lack of
infrastructure, and population growth, led to an increase of the pollution levels and
degradation of the urban environment along with a loss of the cultural heritage in the
case of Hafsia. Through the rehabilitation program, these settlements had been
integrated in the urban fabric and could finally benefit from the urban services



- 10 -
(transport, postmail, and waste collection) as a recognized neighborhood. Furthermore,
from the social point of view, the project permitted the social integration of an
important number of poor and underprivileged households.
7.04    Architectural and Urban Impact.  The Hafsia component both from the conceptual
and operational point of view could be considered as a success. Indeed, the project
not only helped preserve and protect part of the national heritage, but also
regenerated a number of activities in the Medina. The success of the physical
intervention and the financial framework generated value added to the land and real
estate, as well as the general betterment of the whole Medina by reactivating its
economy and resuscitating its historical, cultural, architectural and artistic values.
This is undoubtedly a case worth studying further regarding intervention in historic
urban cities throughout the world. As far as the sites and services component is
concerned less architectural and urban integrity was achieved, mostly due to the lack
of technical assistance to the self-help housing construction. It is worth noting that
such programs would gain from being conceived and designed as integrated urban
operations.
7.05    Economic and Sectoral Impact.  The sectoral policy of the government evolved,
during the life of project, around two important actions recommended by the Sector
Study: development of adequate means for housing finance on the one hand and
appropriate systems of land development on the other.   In addition to its major
objectives mentioned earlier, the project successfully responded to these two
recommendations. The Sector Study also came up with recommendations to the government,
notably, concerning the reduction in the housing standards (including the size of the
lots equipped by AFH) with the aim of housing a larger number of citizens and the
promotion of the self-help housing construction.
7.06    A last aspect, but not the least, worth mentioning amongst the achievements of
the project is the participation of the private sector. The project succeeded in
raising the interest and involvement of the private sector in operations traditionally
considered the sole domain of the State, both in some of the rehabilitation program
(under the supervision of ARRU) and in Hafsia.   By creating competition in similar
operations (and sometimes on  the same building sites) between private and public
enterprises, the project highlighted the competencies of each sector.   Hence, the
successful participation of the private sector in this project did lead to its further
involvement in subsequent projects.
8.      Bustainability of the Project
8.01    The sustainability of many activities of the project is easily envisaged for
the following reasons: (a) the project, in some of its components, had already been
reproduced through the 4th UDP, the 5th UDP and the Municipal Development Project
assuring, thus, a continuity; (b) ARRU has acquired a remarkable experience and
expertise in the field of rehabilitation/renovation and could well undertake similar
operations with minimum involvement of the Government; (c) BH and AFH have started
working together, and included in their program low income buyers and; (d) private
developers who participated with success in the programs could help implement similar
projects.   However,  the cost recovery of the project as a whole remains an open
question as it proved to be, so far, a failure. There is no doubt that cost recovery
is a necessary condition for the recycling of funds without which project
sustainability could not be assured.



9.      Bank Performance
9.01    The Bank, through this project, substantially contributed to the conceptual and
practical improvement of the intervention in the urban areas.  Project supervision
constantly ensured that project objectives were accomplished despite the numerous
changes the project went through. Project adjustments to the changing needs throughout
its life span and the devaluation of the Tunisian dinar had the positive effect of
multiplying its achievements and were a challenge for a number of its executing
agencies.   However, the Bank was not forceful in making the borrower abide by its
agreements.
9.02    The recognized importance of the project objectives in the struggle for
economic and social development led the Bank, just after this project was signed, to
launch the preparation of the 4th UDP and later the 5th and 6th urban projects2. These
were, within the medium to long-term, to complement and assure a continuity in the
urban intervention started with the 2nd UDP so that the attained results would be
significant and durable. It is worth noting that the 4th UDP as well as the 5th
benefitted in their design from the experience gained in the present project, notably,
the involvement of the public and private developers in the construction of social
housing.
10.     Performance of the Borrower
10.01   ARRU was created in August 1981 just before the project was launched. Despite
being a young organization and a lack of experience, ARRU performed its tasks
satisfactorily with constant improvement in its various capacities. It acquired
significant expertise in rehabilitation and renovation and has even succeeded in
implementing most rehabilitation works at a lower cost than estimated, which is
significant in this particular field. The BH played an important role in the project
through its management of the funds destined to finance the civil works of the sites
and services component (implemented by AFH), the Special Account created for Hafsia,
and the loans. The BH introduced major improvements in its financing and housing loan
practices and procedures. CPSCL and AFH performed relatively less effectively (para.
5.07).  The  CPSCL    showed  weaknesses  in  its  management  of  the  loans  to  the
municipalities. The loans were blocked for a long time and the cost recovery tables
and amortization schedules were not provided to the borrowing municipalities. The
latter, in turn, did not establish the local tax destined to recover an important part
of their debts to CPSCL. The performance of the municipalities was also characterized
by the slowness and complexity of their reimbursement procedures.
11.     Performance of the Consultants
11.01   In general, the consultant services and other contractors involved in the
different tasks of the project did not cause any major difficulty. The local
consultants work was also carried out satisfactorily.
2/      The 6th UDP is known as the Municipal Development Project.



- 12 -
12.    Lessons and Recommendations
12.01   The project has largely demonstrated that it is possible to succeed in
operations as complex and ambitious as the rehabilitation of slum settlements and the
revitalization/conservation of parts of the historic cities; however, it has achieved
less in other components that are as important. In fact, the project in its
implementation as well as conception, clearly privileged the physical realizations at
the expense of the financial and, to a lesser extent, institutional aspects. The
lessons of this project concern the five following areas:
12.02   A. Complexity of the Proiect.  One of the lessons that could be drawn from the
project is, undoubtedly, its complexity.  This project was characterized by: (a) a
program composed of a multitude of elements all very ambitious and entailing for their
implementation the complex chain of activities involved in the production of urban
space; (b) the multiplicity of operators and participants; and (c) the lack of a clear
delineation of responsibilities between different executing agencies.  As might be
expected, these already constraining elements at the design level proved to be even
more difficult at implementation. The execution of the project by various agencies and
institutions was made even more difficult by the delegation of authorities and transfer
of responsibilities. The diversity of project activities implied integrated actions
at both central and local levels in administrative, financial and technical circuits
that were not always performing well. Hence, it was difficult to organize a monitoring
system that would be able to assure a coherence of the programmed activities. Despite
this, the project did attain satisfactory results thanks to the commendable efforts
made by all the parties concerned.  However, it is recommended, for future urban
projects that thee be less complexity of design and prioritization and closer targeting
of the objectives, including a simplification of the means for their implementation to
increase their durability.
12.03   B. The Land Issue. The experience of urban projects in different countries
reveals, in general, difficulties tied to the land question. Expropriations for public
utility, even in countries that have a tradition in this field, often turn into
difficult and conflict-ridden operations. This was the case for the 3rd UDP. Given
that the legal status of land in Tunisia could well be problematic, due to the varied
and still existing tribal and family types of land ownership3, difficulties in this
area should have been foreseen. Though the documentation of the project does not allow
a precise diagnosis of the reasons behind the difficulties posed by the land
acquisition, it is clear that the initial hypothesis stipulating that any possible
delays would be minimized by the capacity of ARRU to expropriate land quickly, did not
In Tunisia, there are various types of land ownership: land owned by the
State that could be either "private State domain" or "public domain" when it
is retroceded to public institutions; land owned by the Domaine; "collective
land"; "Habous land"; "Municipal land"; and the private land that could be
individually/tribally/family owned.



- 13 -
give the expected results. In fact, the instruments4 for expropriation at the disposal
of ARRU were not always used to the maximum of their legal strength, minimizing, thus,
the power of ARRU of acquiring land quickly. Moreover, some of the land concerned by
the project changed status involving additional lengthy processes for freeing it,
increasing the delays and cost overrun. This was the case for certain land parcels in
Douar Hicher, part of the sites and services program, which necessitated the use of
tedious means for its acquisition. Part of it, though, could not be freed as it was
sold to illegal tenants. It was also necessary for some other land parcels to have
recourse to the change of use, from agriculture to urban use which is a conflicting and
cumbersome procedure to undertake in the existence of a Master Plan. It was only
through this artifice that some of the land could be made available for the project.
On the other hand, the stakes were high related to this issue since the project was to
operate on land 60 percent of which was privately owned.   Furthermore, one of the
principles of the project was to regularize ownership land status and to secure tenure
of land through the provision of ownership titles to the future beneficiaries of
serviced plots. For this reason, it would have been prudent to make sure of the
reliability of the prevailing land acquisition procedures well in advance in order not
to further disturb the functioning of the project. In fact, project design neither did
it take into account these elements and their related difficulties as well as many
others that could not all be mentioned in the scope of this work, nor did it make any
room for a prior and appropriate preparation of such a crucial issue for a project
based on land development.
12.04   C. Cost Recovery.  The difficulties encountered in the implementation of cost
recovery measures are partly due to the insufficient preparation regarding the project
environment and its various intervening entities. Within a context where raising taxes
is not a tradition, the problems tied to this issue were foreseeable.   A survey
undertaken on a few sites of the project in 1986 revealed that beneficiaries were in
general very poorly informed on certain   aspects of the project, i.e., selection
criteria for allocating plots and loans, type of services that would be provided, and
most importantly, the beneficiaries responsibility in paying back their share of works
and services made available to them through the above mentioned tax.   Thus, the
beneficiaries were not only reluctant to pay such a tax, if it was established, but
they assumed and believed that it was public intervention and had, therefore, nothing
to pay. The local authorities (municipalities), on their part, owing to the novelty of
the concept, found it hard (for different reasons) to impose a tax on their
communities. It was, hence, necessary to devote more time for the preparation of this
aspect, especially, since the 2nd UDP went through the same problems as far as cost
recovery is concerned. Moreover, the 4th UDP follows the same design.   The cost
recovery being generally made over a 20 year period, it is hoped that the on-going
urban projects would adjust to this situation. It is crucial that the cost recovery
principle should be adhered to and its implementation enforced, as it is only through
financially solvent operations that the process of urban development can be pursued and
sustained without being a burden for a local or central Government.
The instruments through which ARRU could exercise its power of expropriation
are the PIF- Perimatre d'Intervention Fonciere- and the decree of
expropriation which along with its preemption right are sufficient enough to
free transactions.



- 14 -
12.05   D. Resettlement.  In spite of the importance of the rehabilitation program that
affected more than 80,000 inhabitants, the project was based on the principle of
maintaining the population concerned on site and had, to this effect, displaced only
a very limited number of residents. The latter, were relocated in apartments owned by
SNIT,  SPROLS  and  the  municipality  of  Tunis.    This  aspect  permitted  further
reinforcement of the position of the Tunisian Government regarding the rehabilitation
of the squatter settlements rather than their demolition, hence, avoiding the
consequences of massive relocation of the population. The project did, however, face
some difficulties in resettling a few of the concerned population owing to the scarcity
of empty housing units that would have been made timely available to the population
affected by the re-housing scheme. Once again, insufficient preparation lay behind this
other aspect of the project.
12.06   E. Procurement. In this project, the works were: (a) scattered over many sites;
(b) of diverse types; and (c) executed and managed by many agencies. As a result, the
related contracts were of small amounts, numerous and similar in nature leading to
cumbersome and lengthy processing for both the Borrower and the Bank. A consolidation
of all these contracts in homogeneous sets would have made the job of the Borrower and
Bank's supervision missions much easier.
13.    Documentation and data
13.01   The staff appraisal report, the legal documents and other documentation were
useful to the implementation of the project. However, and maybe due to the nature of
this project, the documentation relating to its execution and necessary for PCR
preparation was difficult to exploit due to often contradictory and incompatible data
requiring multiple and lengthy cross-checking.



- 15 -
PJRCT comPLSTIos RZPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD URRAND OZLOPNT PRO)JXCT
(LOAN 2223-TON)
PART  I
1.      Introduction
1.01    The objective of the Third Urban Development Project was to assist the Borrower
to prepare and carry out integrated development programs. These programs comprised the
production of urban services and equipped lots for the low-income population in
substandard settlements.
1.02    It was intended that all sectors of the urban mainstream be involved in the
preparation and implementation of these programs, without recourse to the creation of
any new agencies. However, on the strength of experience gained from the Second Urban
Development Project, ARRU, a public institution of an industrial and commercial nature,
was created to coordinate, direct and monitor the Project. ARRU was, thus, regarded
as an agency to which local authorities would delegate responsibility for these
integrated projects.
1.03    To what extent, then, has this project, which loan was closed in June 1993,
after three amendments in 1986, 1987 and 1989, achieved its objectives?
1.04    What sort of evaluation can we make of the preparation and implementation of
the various components and the performance of the various parties involved?
2.      Protect Desiam
2.01    The project proved complex in terms of both its institutional and financial
organization and also in the formulation of its intervention programs.
2.02    Proiect Organization.  The multiplicity of parties involved in the project
cycle was bound to increase the number of implementation instruments (covenants,
agreements, orders, decrees, etc.) and the number of references to the legislation and
procedures peculiar to each of the parties.   All this ultimately resulted in the
extension of the periods allotted for project preparation and implementation.
2.03    The financial package for this project combined several different financing
schemes, which were tailored to the components and were dependent on whether they
involved connection works (off-site), on-site networks (secondary) or hook-ups to the
various networks.
2.04    Because of the multiplicity of parties and financial schemes involved, project
organization was also based on complex financing procedures and channels.  It was
originally planned that the Bank's rate of participation in the financing would vary
depending on the nature of the project activity (land development, civil engineering
vorks, housing loans, studies, equipment, etc.). The rates were revised in the course
of project implementation in order to increase and standardize the World Bank's
contribution.
2.05    The objective of assisting the Borrower to prepare and execute integrated
development programs was achieved despite the large number of parties involved, the
diverse financing schemes and the complex procedures required for project preparation
and approval.
2.06    Formulation of intervention vroerams and cost estimates.  The sites selected
by the project all suffered from a severe lack of basic urban services and



- 16 -
social/community infrastructure. Also, given the prevalence of anarchistic land use
and the high density of occupancy of the housing units, any action was bound to result
in large-scale rehousing and demolition.
2.07    The program therefore had to take account of all these needs in terms of
service networks (water, electricity, sewerage, lighting, roads), youth facilities
(sports field, children's playground), education (school) and health (clinic, district
hospital). The development of infill lots and sites and services were also components
of the intervention programs. The share of these components in the total volume of
activity carried out by the various institutions involved in the Project remained
marginal. Consequently, difficulties were encountered in programming and scheduling
the coordination of certain activities, even resulting, in some instances, in their
simply being eliminated (as in the case of the sports fields originally planned in the
Project).
2.08    Outside of ARRU, which was the project coordinator and agency responsible for
project progress, and the Municipality, which was the owner of the project, the degree
of identification with this Project among the various parties involved was weak at the
design stage.
2.09    The Project extensions in 1987 and 1989, to include new sites, were made
possible thanks to the appreciation of the dollar in relation to the dinar, the non-use
of the loans originally earmarked for technical assistance and the savings achieved on
the contracts signed. These savings stemmed essentially from an overestimation of the
various operations programs at project appraisal stage and particularly from the loan
amount.
3.      Pro-lect Implementation
3.01    Execution Periods.   The time periods originally set for rehousing,  land
settlement transactions, releasing rights of way and purchasing sites for the
production  of  serviced  lots  were  based  on  optimistic  estimates.    The  actual
implementation of these operations took longer than planned, causing a delay in the
start-up of the works.  The postponement of the date for loan effectiveness and the
need to repeat certain project studies for updating purposes also contributed to the
delay in the start-up of the works.
3.02    Despite the improvements made in the course of project implementation with
respect to its institutional organization, certain inherent difficulties in project
implementation were encountered due to the multiplicity of parties involved, all
reporting to different decisionmaking centers. Project implementation could have been
shortened, had the procedures (for handling the lot and loan dossiers, awarding
contracts, preparing expropriation cases and financing arrangements) been simplified.
3.03    The slow pace at which the service works were executed on certain sites was
closely linked to the anarchistic use of rights of way and to the systematic need to
resort to the raising or lowering works-and even diversion-of the service networks.
3.04    Conditions of Proiect Implementation.   In  order  to  offset  the  lack  of
rehabilitation experience among the enterprises, ARRU strengthened their staffing by
assigning a project manager and an assistant project manager per site on a permanent
basis. However, and unlike what was done in the case of the infrastructure networks,



- 17 -
the self-help construction of core housing units program did not benefit from technical
project assistance. This resulted in failure to comply with the architectural plans
and the generally unfinished look of the serviced lots.
3.05    The attitude of the population toward the project and the commitment of the
municipalities were, to a large extent, conditioned by the information, awareness-
raising and extension campaigns conducted on the sites prior to the start-up of the
works.   These actions targeted the beneficiaries, the authorities and the various
participants (concession companies, regional departments, etc.). In this connection
it can be said that:
(a)    the population, on the whole, supported the Project, which made it
possible to establish friendly relations and to help with the execution
of various components;
(b)    the municipalities, on the whole, actively participated in the execution
of these projects, which were not always perceived as municipal projects
in view of the fact that the organization, financing and execution were
the responsibility of national institutions, i.e. ARRU (rehabilitation),
AFH (serviced lots), ONAS (Special Sanitation Project included under the
third amendment);
(c)    the service network concession companies and the ministerial departments
primarily followed their own scheduling and programming logic. Because
of this, the coordination for the various interventions was not always
easy.
3.06    Proiect Management.   The channeling of funds adopted by the project was
complex. But this complexity was somewhat offset, however, by ARRU being provided with
resources that enabled it to bear the costs relating to the land settlement, on the one
hand, and by the delegation-in the course of Project implementation-of credits to
finance primary infrastructure and social/ community facilities.   This arrangement
enabled ARRU to obtain advances and to undertake operations under normal conditions and
to pay the consulting firms and the enterprises involved in a reasonably timely
fashion.   The problem was still passed on to the next phase, however, since the
municipalities took at least three to four months to reimburse people for the secondary
infrastructure contracted by ARRU.
4.      Project ImRact
4.01    Although it might be premature, without a proper survey, to determine the
Project's impact on development, it is nevertheless possible to make a few comments
along these lines:
(a)    the restructuring and rehabilitation of the squatter settlements and the
regularization of the land tenure status of the occupants triggered a
boost in investment in the construction sector that was visible on all
the sites;
(b)    increases in land prices, the cost of rental housing and commercial
funds were also recorded;



- 18 -
(c)    the rehabilitation and renewal of the old Hafsia district brought about
significant development in economic activities, well in excess of
expectations.
(d)    the integration of the project sites into their environment was achieved
by providing them with services and linking them to the city and, in
social and economic terms, by providing access to various urban services
(transportation,   Post   and  Telecommunications,   frequent  garbage
collection).
5.      Achievement of Obiectives and Lessons to be learned
5.01    All in all, the project can be regarded as having achieved its objectives.  It
was, after all, successful in setting up the rehabilitation projects in the squatter
settlements, renovation and preservation of the old urban center and the production of
low-income housing subdivisions.   It proved that it is possible to protect a city's
urban heritage while upgrading living conditions by producing urban services. As for
the serviced lots, these demonstrate not only the feasibility of small serviced lots
but particularly the existence of a major demand for this product.
5.02    As in the case of development operations of new areas,  it was possible to
concentrate and combine in time and space the intervention of several urban operators
in the rehabilitation of districts within the framework of a single project authority.
This authority was entrusted to an operator that was responsible for coordinating,
monitoring and directing the Project.
5.03    The project also aimed at improving as much as possible the recovery of costs
incurred in order to ensure the replicability of these operations. The results in this
area so far still fall below expectations for several reasons, including the following,
in particular:
(a)    on six sites, although most of the works have been finished since 1989,
only one decree for the recovery of secondary costs (through the taxe
des riverains-taxes administered by the municipality for the recovery
of rehabilitation costs) has been issued;
(b)    insufficient  resources  were  made  available  to  handle  recovery
operations;
(c)    the Banque de l'Habitat. the agency responsible for managing the loans
earmarked for the self-help construction and upgrading of housing,
performed the role of administrator on the Government's behalf. This
Bank needs to be more involved in the financing of this product.
5.04    Lessons to be learned:  Several lessons can be drawn from this Project, some
of which have already been adopted:
(a)    it is essential that the decision to make a single agency responsible
for coordinating all the operators, with the accompanying delegation of
authority for complex projects, be accompanied by the provision of
sufficient resources, including financial resources, in particular;



- 19 -
(b)    it is obvious that the same objectives could have been achieved with
fewer participants;
(c)    it would be better to simplify the channeling of funds;
(d)    the  project  showed  the  appropriateness  of  cross-subsidizing  the
operations to rehabilitate old centers;
(e)    the production of serviced lots is one way of meeting the housing demand
of lower income groups; steps should be taken to make this an ongoing
activity of legal land developers and to identify regular sources of
financing.   But the subdivision of land into lots must be better
supervised and must be integrated into the urban fabric;
(f)    in the area of cost recovery,  it would be wise to standardize the
recovery methods used.



- 20 -
PROJBCT COMPLETION RSPORT
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2223-TUN)
PART III
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
ritle and               Purpose               Approval Date          Status and Observations
Loan Number
First Urban       Essentially, an urban                             Closed in 1982.
Development Project   transport project with                            Ihis project contributed to the
the objectives of.                               preparation of the 3rd urban
establishing a regional                          project through the establishment
planmng context                                  of the District of Tunis which
(District                                        played a key role in the
de Tunis), renewal and                            formulation of the housing
expansion of the public                          policies for the low income
transport fleet of SNT,                          population.
the renovation of the
railways Tuns-La
Goulette-La Marsa and
the improvement of the
traffic
comditions in the center
of Tunis.
Second Urban       Assist in the                  0512211979         Closed in 1985.
Development        development of new                               The first Bank intervention in
Project         approaches to the                                 the housing domain in Tunisia
prevailing                                       and a milestone of a series of
Loan 1705-TIUN     policies in the sectors of                        urban projects.
housing and urban
services for the low
income population
through rehabilitation
and site and services
programs. Also the
setting up of tha
institutional framework
which would help
reproduce these
approaches on a larger
scale and in a long run.



- 21 -
Title and               Purpose             Approval Date          Status and Observations
Loan Number
Fourth Urban       Improvement of the            07/03/1986        On-going.
Development Project   housing conditions of the                       Follows the same objectives as
low income households                           the 3rd. Project. May be
Loan 2736-TUN       and delivery of                                 considered as a continuation of
accessible serviced lots.                       the 3rd. UDP.
Capacity building of the
institutions responsible
for the implementation
of the urban
development policies.
Fifth Urban       Strengthen the housing        05/18/1989        On-going.
Development       production capacity for                          This project builds on the 3rd
Project         low income population                           and 4th by further concentrating
by supporting the newly                         on housing finance and the
Loan 3064-TUN       created housing bank                            increased participation of the
through savings and                             private sector. It is within this
rationalization of the use                      project that one of the executing
of available resources.                         agencies of the 3rd UDP,
Promote the                                     CNEL, was reorganized into the
participation of the                            Housing Bank.
private sector in the
land and housing
production and initiate
the modernization of
land management
l__________________________ system.
Municipal Development  Development of local          07/02/1992         On-going.
Project         authorities capacity                             The project concentrates on the
(municipal and regional)                        institutional weaknesses,
Loan 3507-TUN       in the execution of urban                       especially at the local level,
programs: resource                              already identified in the 3rd and
mobilization and                                4th UTDP.
utilization, financing and
project implementation,
planning and
management of
municipal services
including the
rehabilitation of low
income settlements.



- 22 -
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Scheduled l)ate   Revised D-ate   Effective Date
* Identification                                                        06/1981
(IEPS)
* Preparation                           11/1981                      12/08-18/1981
* Appraisal Mission                     01/1982         02/1982      02/02-28/1982
* Loan Negotiations                   05/07/1982       06/14/1982     10/21/1982
- Board Approval                      06/29/1982       09/28/1982      12/21/1982
* Loan Signature                                                      01/11/1983
* Loan Effectiveness                    04/1983        07/19/1983
10/12/1983     09/08/1983
* Closing Date                        06/30/1990       06/30/1992     06/30/1993
* Project Completion                   12/31/1989      12/31/1991     12/31/1992
* Last Disbursement Date               12/30/1990      12/30/1992     10/30/1993



- 23 -
3. LOAN DISBURSEMENT
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in million doUarn)
BANK FISCAL           APPRAISAL            ACTUAL    VARIATION                  PROFILE
YEAR             AMOUNT         %     AMOUNT       s(1                     OF TUNISIA
(By quarter)
1983
Sept. 30, 1983
Dec. 31, 1983                0.94    3.76       0.369 (**)         0.39                 0
1984
Mar. 31, 1984                   -       -       0.369     1.5
Jun. 30, 1984                2.30    9.20       0.488    2.0       0.21                  1
Sept. 30, 1984                  -       -       0.590    2.4
Dec. 31, 1984                5.40    21.60      0.701     2.8      0.13                 3
1985
Mar. 31, 1985                   -       -       0.953     3.8
Jun. 30, 1985                8.40   33.60       1.441    5.8       0.17                 10
Sept. 30, 1985                  -       -       1.833    7.3
Dec. 31, 1985               10.92   43.68       2.378    9.5       0.22                 14
1986
Mar. 31, 1986                   -       -       3.022    12.1
Jun. 30, 1986               13.30   53.20       3.653    14.6      0.27                 22
Sept. 30, 1986                  -       -       3.822    15.3
Dec. 31, 1986               15.68    62.72      4.222    16.9      0.27                 30
1987
Mar. 31, 1987                   -       -       4.768    19.1
Jun. 30, 1987               17.68    70.72      5.231    20.9      0.30                 38
Sept. 30, 1987                  -       -       5.378    21.5
Dec. 31, 1987               19.36    77.44      5.803    23.2      0.30                 42
1988
Mar. 31, 1988                   -       -       6.704   26.8
Jun. 30, 1988               20.86    83.44      7.401    29.6      0.35                 58
Sept. 30, 1988                  -       -       7.618    30.5
Dec. 31, 1988               22.35    89.40      8.206   32.8       0.37                 66



- 24 -
1989
Mar. 31, 1989                 -        -      8.956   35.8
Jun. 30, 1989             23.20   92.80       9.461   37.8      0.41                74
Sept. 30, 1989                -        -      9.953   39.8
Dec. 31, 1989             24.00   96.00       10.310   41.2     0.43                82
l990
Mar. 31, 1990                 -        -      12.314   49.3
Jun. 30, 1990             25.00  100.00       13.756   55.0     0.55                86
Sept. 30, 1990                               14.158   56.6
Dec. 31, 1990                                 16.950   67.8                         90
1991
Mar. 31, 1991                                17.901   71.6
Jun. 30, 1991                                18.664   74.7                          100
Sept. 30, 1991                               19.251   77.0
Dec. 31, 1991                                20.029   80.1
;3g2
Mar. 31, 1992                                21.141   84.6
Jun. 30, 1992                                21.464   85.9
Sept. 30, 1992                               21.677   86.7
Dec. 31, 1992                                22.236   88.9
1993
Mar. 31, 1993                                22.647   90.6
Jun. 30, 1993                                23.142   92.6
Sept. 30, 1993                               23.720   94.9
Dec. 31, 1993                                24.551   98.2
(*) It is the ratio between actual and estimated disbursements.
(**) This amount represents the front-end fee.
(***) Disbursement profile of Tunisia for the urban sector in July 1993.



3. LOAN DISBURSEMENT
Time Line of Planned & Actual Disbursement Schedule 1/
IN MILLIONS OF US$
30 -
25-
20 -
15-
1 0
5-
0-
DecJunDecJunDecJunDecJunDecJunDecJunDecJunDecJunDecJunDecJunDec
813 1 84  1 85  1 86  1 87  1 88  1 89  1 90  1 91  1 92  1 931
BANK 's FISCAL YEAR
Evaluation    I   Effective          Profile of Tunisia
1/ CUMMULATED DISBURSEMENT



- 26 -
4. PROJECT EXECUTION
A.  PROJECT AMENDMENTS'
Type of Amendment              Effectiveness            Justifications             Initiated By
Date
|  Building of a municipal market at Le First Amendment * Benefit the community living on  The Borrower,
Kef.                              to the loan.        the equipped sites. Includes 90    since November
Was effective on    shops which will allow the    1985, i.e, 2 years
March 27, 1986.   municipality to reimburse its   after the effecti-
financial obligations.         veness of the loan.
- Acquisition of computer equipment                   * Necessary to the MOH and
for MOH estimated at US$ 20,000.                      AARU for conducting housing and
finance studies. 90% financed by
the Bank.
|  Increase of the Bank's participation               * Cover the hard currency part of
rate for the component 'Civil Works'                  the 'Civil Work' component,
from 45 to 53 %.                                      using the surplus generated by the
appreciation of the dollar.
* Project activities were extended to 2  Second       * Due to the appreciation of the    The Borrower, on
other localities: Beja and Gafsa  Amendment of        dollar against the Tunisian Dinar, December 2,
* The municipality of La Goulette    the loan.          an important part of the loan   1986.
benefitted from a new component 'site Effective on May   (US$8 million) would have been
and services and housing loans' for   29, 1987.       cancelled. The Borrower
the development of 4 ha site into 200                 preferred to expand the project
lots.                                                 activities.
* The servicing of 40 ha of land in the
District of Tunis, i.e. 1,600 lots on
different sites.
* Increasing the disbursement rate of the
.site and services' component from
30 to 53 %.
* The budget allocation for the different
components was revised to reflect the
expansion of described activities by
using the savings made.
1/   Only the most important amendments to the Loan Agreement have been summarized in
this table. The amendments to the Project Agreement and related understandings are not
included but were taken into account in the analysis of project execution, Part I of this
report.



- 27 -
Type of Amendment             Effectiveness            Justifications            Initiated By
Date
* The previous Amendment concerning Third           T inking the project to a presidential  The Borrower, on
the development of Beja and Gafsa   Amendment.    sanitation program for low income   February 16,
was extended to other non equipped   Effective July 6, settlements.  Instead of implernenting 1989.
areas throughout the country.     1989.           the sites and services works for only
* Addition of a new component called                few areas, the Borrower preferred to
*sanitation of non equipped areas' for           extend this component to several
an amount of US$7 million.                        urban areas focusing on the sanitation
* The closing date of the Project is                aspects. The savings made in the
extended to June 30, 1992.                        Project estimated at USS7 million
* Acquisition of computer equipment                 allowed to finance this component.
for CNEL leading to an increase of               The budget was redistributed
the budget allotted to this component             accordingly.
from US$20,000 to USS200,000.
* The closing date was extended to June Fourth      In order to allow the implementation  The Borrower, on
30, 1993.                         Amendment.    of the local authorities investment   January 6, 1992.
studies. These studies were
important for the preparation of the
Municipal Development Project
already appraised in November 1991.
This Amendment was also necessary
to complete disbursenents.



5.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.  PROJECT COSTS
(in000)
1. Ettadhamen - Douar likher/Jendouba/La Goulete
Le Kef/Beja/Ga(saMDstrid de Tunis
a) Civil Works                                             2,1S5    3,575    TD   3,972       3,043    3,800     TD   6,474      3,135    4,400     TD   7,236
USS   7,944                        USS   7,170                         SEU   7,764
b) Housing extensions and Construction loans                 856    1,400    TD    1,556       883      800      TD   1,605       1,093    1,005    TD   2,030
USS   3,111                        USS   1,778                         sEU   2,178
c) Site and Services - Civil Works                         3,967    3,400    TD   5,667       1,602    2,000     TD   3,408        721      813     TD    1,479
USS  11.333                        USS   3,774                         sEU    1,587
d) Site snd Services - Construction loans                                                     2,207    2,000     TD   4,013      2,689    2,442     TD   4,965
sEU   5,327
2.  aisfsh                                                                                                      USS   4,444
a) Civil Works and Constrtction loans                      2,087    3,415    TD   3,794       1,762    2,200     TD   3,748      2,097    2,035     TD   3,994
USS   7,589                        USS   4,151                         sEU   4,285
b) Housing extensions and Construction loas                 917    1,500    TD   1,667         552      500      TD   1,003        734    1,019     TD   1,684
USS   3,333                        USS   1,121                         SEU   1,807  CD
3. Techneal assistance
a) Expert services and fellowships                           188    1,500    TD     938         45      200      TD     226                1,041    TD      970
USS   1,875                        USS      250                        SEU    1,041
b) Urban transport studies                                  150    1,200    TD      750        226    1,000      TD   1,129        113      772     TD      903
USS   1,500                        USS   1,250                         seu      968
c) Computer equipment                                                                           20      200     TD      201         43      412     TD      427
USS    222                         seu      458
4. CivilWorksforoff-siseinfrasructure                      1,833    3,000    TD   3,333      2,402    3,000     TD   5,111       2,539    2,551     TD   4,917
USS   6,667                        USS   5,660                         seu   5,275
5. CivU Worksforcommunityfalkitis                           611    1,000    TD   1,111         801    1,000     TD   1,704         801    1,053     TD   1,782
USS   2,222                        US$   1,887                         seu   1,912
6. CivU Works for infrastructure - Special Projet                                            5,605    7,000      TD  11,926      5,246    6,639     TD  11,434
USS  13,208                        sEu  12,268
7. Commission                                                        369    TD       185                369     TD      334          -      369     TD      344
USS     369                        USS      369                        sEU      369
8. Unaloated                                               4,950    4,641    TD   7,270                 931     TD      840
US$  14,541                        USS    931
S/TOTAL IN TD                                             17,743   12,500         30,243    19,148   22,575          41,723     19,281   22,882          42,163
S/TOTAL IN US$                                            35,485   25,000         60,485    21,205   25,000          46,205     20,688   24,551          45,239
Exchange rate (from US S to TID equivalent)                0.500                             0.903                               0.932
(*) These figures am derived from the Loan Agreement.
(*49 These figures ae derived from the Third revision of the Loan Agreement.



- 29 -
6.  STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
Source & Covenant              Covenant Description                  Compliance & Remarks
Loan Agreement
Cov.:P                   Procurement of the goods and civil works    Were implemented as stipulated
Section: 2.03            necessary  to the Project and out of
proceeds of the Loan and as governed by
the agreement provisions.
Cov.: A                  Closing date scheduled for June 30,         Three amendments had postponed the
Section: 2.04            1990.                                       date to June 30, 1993.
Cov.: A                  The Borrower shall cause the Project to     Complied with.
Section: 3.01            be carried out through agencies and
institutions designated in the Agreement.
Cov.: Fin                The Borrower shall make available to       Implemented in December 1983.
Section: 3.02(a)         CPCSL  an amount of US$6,400,00
equivalent out of proceeds of the Loan
for a duration of 20 years.
Cov.: Fin                The Borrower shall make available to       Implemented in December 1983.
Section; 3.02(b)         CNEL the amount of USS 4,800,000
equivalent.
Cov.: Fin                The Borrower shall make available as        Accomplished  for ARRU, ONAS.
Section: 3.02(c)         grant from the Loan to ARRU, ONAS,          STEG and SONEDE did not receive
SONEDE and STEG such amount as             directly any grant from the Project.
shall be necessary for the execution of the
Project.
Cov.: Fin               lTe Borrower exercises rights under the      Accomplished.
Section: 3.02(d)         Subsidiary  Loan  and  Management
Agreement to protect his interests
together  with  the  Bank's  and
accomplishes proposes of the Loan and
shal not change either the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the Management
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Cov.: A                  The Borrower shall cause the agreements     Accomplished.
Section: 3.03           to be implemented between ARRU and
the  municipalities,  I'ARRU   and
SONEDE, STEG and ONAS, ARRU and
AFH, and finally, AFH and CNEL.
Cov.: Fin                The Borrower shall establish a special      Scheduled date January 1984.  Wu
Section: 3.05            account within  the  budget of the          accomplished in December 1986 due to
Municipality of Tunis.                     late start of the Project.



- 30 -
Source & Covenant             Covenant Description                  Compliance & Remarks
LoaSnAgreement
Cov.: A                  The  Borrower  shall  establish   a        Scheduled date May 85, accomplished
Section: 3.06            municipality  for  Ettadhamen-Douar        in advance, in September 1984.
Hicher.
Cov.: F                  The Borrower shall establish a legal and   Planed for June 1984, but was not
Section: 3.07            administratlve  framework  for  the        accomplished  excepted  for  the
recovery of the cost by the municipalities  Municipality of La Goulette.
(contribution des riverains).
Cov.: A                  The Borrower shall cause the BDET to       Accomplished.
Section: 3.08            establish a mnaagement unit in order to
help CPSCL.
Cov.: F                  The Borrower shall employ  in  the         Accomplished. Paid by Italian bilateral
Section: 3.09            Ministry of Housing an urban planner and   aid.
a programming expert.
Cov.: A                  The Borrower shall maintain a technical    Accomplished, however the functioning
Section: 3.10            coordinating  Committee  and               of  these  Committees  was  not
interninisterial coordinating Committee    satisfactory.
throughout the execution of the Project.
Cov.: A                  The Borrower shall provide the Bank        Accomplished.
Section: 3.11(a)         with  plans,  reports,  contracts  and
prescription   documents  and   work
schedules for the Project.
Cov.: Fin                ONAS, SONEDE  and  STEG  shall             C:mplied  with concerning  ONAS.
Section: 3.12(b)        recover costs of house connections at       SONEDE and STEG  have directly
sites through charging fees and customer   financed there connections.
contributions.
Cov.: Fin                The Borrower shall lend ARRU  an           Accomplished.
Section: 3.13            amount of USS 400,000 equivalent for
the land expropriation.
Cov.: Fin                CNEL  shall lend  the  beneficaries        Started in July 1986, a special unit wa
Section; 3.15            amounts out of the Loan proceeds as        created to manage the sub-loans.
specified in the Management AgreemenL
Cov.: Fin                The Borrower shall review with the Bank    Accomplished  starting  from  March
Section: 4.02            annually, starting December 1983, and      1986.
until Project completion, the interest rates
applied in the Housing.



- 31 -
Source & Covenant               Covenant Description                  Compliance & Remarks
Loan Areement
Cov.: Fin                The Borrower shall cause the executing       Accomplished by ARRU and AFH.
Section: 4.03(a)         agencies to maintain separate accounts for
ONAS, SONEDE, STEG and the
Municipalities.
Cov.: Fin                ARRU and AFH shall have their accounts       Accomplished.
Section: 4.04(a)         and fuiancial statements audited for each
fiscal year.
Cov.: Fin                CNEL  and CPSCL  shall have their            Accomplished for CNEL, postponed for
Section: 4.04(b)         accounts and financial statements audited    CPSCL.
for each fiscal year.
Cov.: Fin                The  Borrower shall cause  CPSCL,            ONAS, SONEDE and STEG were not
Section: 4.04(c)         CNEL, AFH, ONAS, SONEDE, STEG                direct  borrowers.    Their  financial
and the Municipalities to provide the       statements had been furnished under other
Bank with audited financial statements.     projects.  Municipalities accounts were
audited by the Ministry of Finance.
CNEL, AFH and ARRU had provided the
Bank with audited accounts.



- 32 -
7.  BANTK RESOURCES UTIAION
A. STAFF INPUTS
(by cycle and year)
1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992 1993  1994
PREPARATION        45.7
APPRAISAL          59.4  13.6
NEGOTIATIONS               7.2
SUPERVISION                5.3  14.7   9.0  10.8   6.9   7.1  10.3  10.0   8.0   5.6  9.0
COMPLETION                                                                                      8.0
B.  MISSIONS
PROJECT   MONTH/YEAR  NUMBER OF  DAYS IN  REPRESENTED                               PROBLEMS
CYCLE                            STAFF       THE FIELD    SPECIALITY             ENCOUNTERED
PREPARATION        Nov-81              3                           Arch.
PREPARATION         Oct-81             I                           Arch-
EVALUATION          Jul-82             2                           Arch.
SUPERVISION         Apr-83             1             20            Arch.
SUPERVEIION         Aug-83             3                         Arch., FA
SUPERVISION         Nov-83             2             30         Arch., Eng.
SUPERVISION         Mar-85             1                           Arch.
SUPERVIRSION        Nov-85             2             20            Arch.
SUPERVEION          Oct-86             1             11            Eng.
SUPERVISION        May-87              2             14         Arch., Eng.
SUPERVISION         Sep-87             3             10         Urban., Eng.
SUPERVISON          Mar-88             2             15         Urban., Eng,       Project Management
SUPERVISION         Dec-88             2             20         Urban., Eng,       Project Management
SUPERVISION         Feb-89             1             18            Eng.
SUPERVIEION         Jun-89             1             10            Eng.
SUPERVISON          Oct-89             1             13            Eng.             Procurement status
SUPERVISION         Dec-89             1             5             Eng.
SUPERVISION         Feb-90             2             10          Eng., FA
SUPERVISION         Jul-90             1             10            Eng.
SUPERVISION         JLn-91             1             17            Eng.             Procurement status
SUPERVISION        Mar-91              I                       Transp. Eng.
SUPERVISION        Aug-92              1                           Eng.         Technical Assistance status
SUPERVISION         Dec-92             2             15          Eng., FA          Project Management
SUPERVISION         Apr-93             2                         Eng., FA
Axi:h. AArhaact   Eng. Eyine.r  Trnsp. Eng.  Transpon Engiocer   FA: Fnancia Analyst    Urban.: Urban Planner



33
uuI*                                                 .11                                        I I_ 
*                    Ut   r                                   *.                               U T
S         L          L-   Uf-. 
Picturcs showing Hafsia site in the Nledinia after its rehabilitation/renovation under the
Project.  External front in the upper quarter of liafsia, and inside commnercial streets
before and after Project intervention.
r' >                                                                   * /
i t J;                                                     lII 
't;   t.         t    g      W            _=           J |  



I'ictures showirig the results of tlle
rehabilitation. renov atioll   V orks
undertaken  on  the    t'afsia  site
under thze Project.                       
Development   of   commercial
spaces on the ground level of the e
renovated buildings.                                'i
Pictures  takcn  on  comminercial
strcets coimipletely rcnlo\ated.
somle   ot'  these  str2,ets  are
speciallied (below: "shoe street').
Economic revitalization and social
animation regained.
Y                                                  +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



35
Pictures showing the results of the                        *1,
rehabilitation/renovation   works
undertaken  on  the Hafsia  site
under the Project.
On the right, block of offices at                                          S
the limit of Hafsia development.
Below, a residential street.1I
It is worth noting the level of
detail achieved on the frontages,
respecting the traditional existing
building materials such as carved
wood, and the tile design patter
and colors.                                                                I.
It is worth noting the level ol i 1 w



