Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3 917 -TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 15, 1982
EMENA Region
Urban Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rates for the Tunisian Dinars is floating. The rates
used in this Report are;
I Tunisian Dinar (TD)           =   US$ 2.00
1 US Dollar                     =   TD  0.500
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I meter (m)                     =   39.37 inches (in)
I square meter (m2)             =   10.9 square feet (sq ft)
I kilometer (km)                =   0.62 mile (mi)
I bectare (ha)                  -   10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
I acre                          =   4,047 m2 or 0.405 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                 =   2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 pound (lb)                    =   0.454 kg
I tonne (metric)                =   2,205 lbs or 1,000 kgs
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFH         -   Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (Land Development Agency)
ARRU       -   Agence pour la Rehabilitation et la Renovation Urbaine
(Urban Upgrading and Renewal Agency)
ASM        -   Association pour la Sauvegarde de la Medina
(Association for the Safeguard of Medina)
BCT        -   Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BDET       -   Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
(Economic Development Bank)
CNEL       -   Caisse Nationale d'Epargne - Logement (National Housing
and Savings Fund)
CPSCL      -   Caisse de Prets et de Soutien des Collectivit6s
Locales (Local Communities Support Fund)
FOPROLOS   -   Fonds Social pour la Promotion du Logement des
Salaries (Workers' Housing Fund)
MOE             Ministere de I'Equipement (Ministry of Equipment)
MOH         -   Ministere de l'Habitat (Ministry of Housing)
MOINT      -   Ministere de l'Interieur (Ministry of Interior)
MOPF       -   Ministere du Plan et des Finances (Ministry of Planning
and Finance)
MTC         -   Ministere de Transport et Communications (Ministry of
and Communications)
ONAS       -   Office National d'Assainissement (National Sewerage
Authority)
SNIT       -   Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie (National Real
Estate Company)
SONEDE     -   Socift6 Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux (National Water Production
and Distribution Company)
SPROLS     -   Socifte de Promotion des Logements Sociaux
(Social Housing Company)
STEG       -   Socift4 Tunisienne d'Electricit4 et de Gaz (Public
Electricity and Gas Company)
USAID       -   US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND . . . . . . ,   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .            I
A.  Urbanization Characteristics and Patterns. . . . . . . . .            I
B.  Urban Conditions and Provision of Services . . . . . . . .             I
C.  Government Responses to Housing Needs. . . . . . . . . . .            3
D.  Bank Involvement and Strategy in the Sector. . . . . . . .            4
II.  rHE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               6
A. Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6
B.  Main Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            6
III.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND EXECUTION . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
A.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
B.  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           11
C.  Execution and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           13
D.  Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           15
E.  Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           16
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           16
G.  Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           17
IV.   COST RECOVERY, FINANCIAL TERMS, INCOME DISTRIBUTION
AND AFFORDABILITY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . .           17
A.  Cost Recovery  ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
B.  Financial Terms and Conditions for Beneficiaries . . . . .           18
C.  Beneficiary Selection                          . . . . . . . .       19
D. Income Profiles, Affordability Analysis
and Urban Poverty Impact ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Tunisia in February 1982. Mission members included Messrs. I. Christie
(Mission leader), A. El-Tobgy, A. Peltekian, J-F. Landeau, S. Margetis and
F. Amiot (consultant). A post-appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Christie
and El Tobgy and Ms. N. Saad visited Tunisia in July 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
A.  Ministry of Housing (MOH)  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
B. Agence pour la Rehabilitation et la Renovation
Urbaine (ARRU) ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
C.  Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (AFH) .        . . . . . . . .       22
D.  Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (CNEL) . . . . . . . .         22
E.  The Municipalities ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
F. Caisse des Prets et de Soutien des Collectivites
Locales (CPSCL)  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
A.  Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         24
B. Economic Impact .25
C. Project Risks .25
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . .               26
ANNEXES   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
1.  Detailed Description . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
2.  Detailed Cost Estimates  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
3.  Sites and Services/Housing Credit Component .  . . . . . .        44
4.  CPSCL:  Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement   . . . .         47
5.  Project Cash Flows ...                    .                       49
6. CNEL: Unaudited Financial Statements'.                . . . . . .52
7.  CPSCL: Unaudited Financial Statements   . . . . . . . . .         55
8.  Revitalization of Hafsia . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .           56
9.  Implementation Schedule  ... .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  58
10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . .        60
11.  Income Distribution Curves . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  61
12.  Development Charges and Affordability .  . . . . . . . . .        63
13.  Urban Poverty Impact ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  66
14. Organization Charts
-  ARRU  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  67
- AFH .68
15.  Description of Costs and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . .        69
16. Project File .71
MAPS
1.  General Map of Tunisia Showing Project Cities .............   16394
2.  Ettadhamen-Douar Hicber         ...................   16395
3.  Hafsia in Medina          .......................   16396
4.  Sidi Amor-Kram Ouest-La Goulette       ...............   16397
5.  Boujnah-Kram Ouest-La Goulette ..     ........ . ........   16398
6.  M'Tirat-Kram Ouest-La Goulette           .      .............   16399
7.  Trabelsia-Jraba-Kram Ouest-La Goulette    .       ...........   16400
8.  Sidi Chrichi in Le Kef          ..................   16401
9.  Zghadia in Jendouba          .....................   16402



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization Characteristics and Patterns
1.01     Urban population in Tunisia has grown rapidly in the past three
decades and now accounts for about 55% of the country's total 1980 population
of 6.6 million. The high rate of urban population growth between 1975-1980 is
due mainly to the return of migrant workers from abroad and the intensive
internal rural-urban migration which has since 1976 accounted for about half
of the urban population growth. The prime destinations of these migratory
flows in the early 1970s were Tunis and the large cities along the eastern
coast. More recent settlement patterns indicate, however, a major shift
towards large urban clusters in the interior, particularly the Northwest where
the urban population in the governorates of Jendouba and Le Kef has been
growing, while all other regions, except Greater Tunis, have experienced a
relative decline in their urban growth rate. The high rate of population
growth, and of family formation, together with the migratory flows have all
resulted in great pressure on urban housing and bave led to a deterioration of
the urban environment in the outskirts of cities and within the crowded
traditional quarters (Medinas) of many cities.
B. Urban Conditions and Provision of Services
1.02     Housing.  The 1980 urban housing stock, representing 53% of total
dwelling units in the country, was estimated at 605,500 units. The housing
stock grew by 30% between 1975 and 1980 but still failed to keep pace with
demand. During that same period, one-room units increased from 17% to 26% of
all urban dwellings thus lowering the median size of dwelling from 2 to 1.7
rooms and occupancy rates rose from 2.2 persons per room and 1.2 nuclear
families per dwelling in 1975 to 2.4 persons per room and 1.5 nuclear families
per dwelling in 1980.
1.03     The demand for housing bas outpaced the ability of the public sector
to control urbanization. About 52% of urban dwellings built during 1975-1980
bypassed urban development regulations and much of it was in squatter settle-
ments. Most of these dwellings were built by the informal sector which relies
on self-help, low-cost construction methods. Although about 90% of this
construction is of good quality and of permanent materials, it is mostly built
in areas lacking infrastructure and community facilities.
1.04     Table I provides data on urban investments in housing and production
costs between 1975 and 1980. Investments in the sector accounted for about
15% of gross fixed capital formation, which is in line with experience in
similar countries. Unit costs per dwelling vary widely with the informal
sector constructing dwelling units at an average cost of TD 1,500 and state
financed "low cost" housing costing an average of TD 7,000. Rental programs
(public or private) are of less importance, except for subleasing within
private dwellings; owner occupied dwellings account for about 79% of all
housing in Tunisia.



-2-
1.05     Table 1 also highlights clearly the relative importance of the public
and private sectors. The public sector accounted for 18% of units built and
the private sector for 82%; in terms of investment, the public sector
accounted for 34% and the private sector for 61%. Clearly, the ability of the
private sector to finance housing construction through savings and other
direct contributions is substantial. Equally clear is that, for the median
urban family with income of the order of TD 110 per month, most housing
provided by the public sector is beyond its reach. One of the objectives of
the proposed project is to reach the lower income groups and be more
responsive to their needs.
Table 1: Urban Housing Investment 1975-80
(in Millions of 1980 TD's)
Relative Share (%)
Housing                 Cost            Total            of           of
Type     Number    per Unit         Investment    Construction  Investment
Public                                                                    (18.0)        (34.2)
SNIT/'      Suburban  14,310       4,200             60.1            7.4           8.9
Low-cost  15,860        7,000           111.0            8.2          16.4
Luxury      2,440     16,000             39.0            1.3           5.7
CNRPS/2    Rental       1,070      13,000            13.9            0.6           2.1
SPROLS/3   Rental         950      8,000              7.6            0.5           1.1
Licensed
Developers        Various    3,700        9,000            33.3             1.9           4.9
Private
Sector                                                                    (80.1)        (60.9)
Legal      Various   58,265        4,600            268.0           30.2          39.6
Informal   Various   96,425        1,500            144.6           49.9          21.3
Total                       193,020 14                    677.5           100.0         100.0
1.06  Infrastructure.  Access of dwellings to basic utility services has
improved considerably in recent years (Table 2) although service on the
outskirts of cities remains poor. The Societ4 Tunisienne d'Electricite et de
Gaz (STEG) and the Societ4 Nationale d' Exploitation et de Distribution des
Eaux (SONEDE), the two national companies responsible for providing
electricity and water, have pursued aggressive programs and are catching up
with the backlog of unserviced urban households. The Office National
d'Assainissement (ONAS), the national company responsible for sewerage, being
a more recent organization, has been unable to keep pace with urban growth,
despite accelerated efforts. The gap between water and sewerage services has
further aggravated existing environmental problems as the daily production of
waste water has increased following the general improvement in water supply.
/1   SNIT, Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie
/2   CNRPS, Caisse Nationale de Retraite et de Prevoyance Sociale.
/3   SPROLS, Societe de Promotion des Logements Sociaux.
/4   Plus 121,000 rural units valued at TD 118 million.



- 3 -
Table 2: Percentage of Dwellings Connected To Utilities
Urban dwellings                   Greater Tunis
1975          1980               1975          1980
Water                        54            71                  71            81
Electricity                  68            85                  82            93
Sewerage                     43            51                  65            76
Solid waste collection and disposal is funded by the Ministry of the Interior
(MOINT) and carried out by governorates and municipalities. Collection and
disposal are adequate outside Tunis and less satisfactory in the City.
1.07     Urban Poverty.  About 15% of the country's urban population have
incomes below the Bank defined absolute urban poverty threshold, estimated in
1981 at TD 60/household/month. This percentage represents a considerable
improvement over the 1978 level of 20%, estimated under the Second Urban
Development Project (Loan 1705-TUN). Compared to middle income countries with
similar characteristics, the magnitude of Tunisia's urban poverty problem is
modest and problems related to housing the existing urban poor are
containable. In 1975, 26% of dwellings were substandard, in 1980 only 8%
remained substandard. The main challenge rests in upgrading the existing
substandard settlements, catering to new demand and providing developed sites
and urban services in a coordinated fashion. The proposed project addresses
all of these main issues.
C. Government Responses to Housing Needs
1.08     Responsibility for managing urban growth is mostly shared among the
Ministries of Housing (MOH), Equipment (MOE), National Economy (MNE), and
Interior (MOINT). Urban planning goals are established after extensive
consultation among the public and semi-public organizations directly involved
in urban matters.  In practice, however, the intricate division of
responsibility between the above ministries and the lack of coordination among
them have often led to confusion in programming and implementing urban
development schemes.
1.09     Until the mid-1970s, the government's response to shelter needs was
limite to its reliance on the programs of its national real estate company,
the Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie (SNIT), which consisted mainly of
turnkey housing projects. Those highly subsidised projects, most of which were
aimed at rehousing families displaced by slum clearance projects, were heavily
concentrated in Tunis. In the mid-1970s, housing policy began to place more
emphasis on towns of the interior. These programs incurred frequent delays in
execution and their financial and social costs remained high.



1.10     In 1973, a land development agency, the Agence Fonciere d'Habitation
(AFH) was established followed by a national housing and savings fund, the
Caisse Nationale d'Epargne Logement (CNEL) in 1974. AFH purchases and
provides serviced sites. Between 1974 and 1981 it developed about 400 ha.
Its policy of charging individuals 100% in advance as well as its high
standards (200-400 m2 plots) have resulted in its plots being affordable only
to middle-income families. CNEL's role is to mobilize domestic savings via
contractual savings plans channeled to housing construction. It has been very
successful in mobilizing resources up to 1980 when two of its savings plans
designed for lower income families ran into trouble as inflation pushed the
cost of housing beyond many savers' means. In 1978, a national fund managed
by CNEL, the Fonds Social pour la Promotion du Logement des Salaries
(FOPROLOS) was created, to grant loans to a category of wage earners with
salaries up to one and a half times the legal minimum wage and which are not
covered by other CNEL programs. Both CNEL and FORPROLOS programs exclude
those who cannot demonstrate regular incomes; in practice, this means that
only salaried individuals can benefit from these programs. Both agencies are
aware that their current programs benefit only middle and upper income
salaried families and are examining alternative programs with the Bank which
would make them more responsive to lower income housing needs: CNEL by moving
in the direction of a more flexible lending program and AFH by developing low
cost sites and services projects. Both these approaches would be tested in
the proposed project. The cooperation between CNEL and AFH would introduce a
much needed link which will improve the coordination within the urban sector.
1.11     Recently, as a result of efforts made through the Bank financed
Second Urban Project and USAID suppo'rted projects, the government has accepted
the concepts of (i) upgrading instead of demolishing squatter settlements;
(ii) developing low cost sites and services projects; and (iii) recovery of
costs of infrastructure and improvements. Policies for the upgrading of
existing settlements and the development of sites and services based on
affordable infrastructure networks and small plot sizes are now evolving.
Also, a new policy for sites and services consisting only of demarcating roads
and plot boundaries as a first phase is emerging. This approach helps guide
the development of subdivisions and facilitates the provision of affordable
services at a later stage. The Urban Upgrading and Renewal Agency, Agence
pour la Rehabilitation et la Renovation Urbaine (ARRU), was created in August
1981 to implement such policies and projects and will play a major role in the
implementation of the proposed project.
D. Bank Involvement and Strategy in the Sector
1.12     Bank Involvement.  Since 1966, the Bank has maintained a close
dialogue with the Tunisian authorities on urban sector policies through a
variety of operations including six water supply projects, a tourism
infrastructure project, two urban sewerage projects, three power projects, and
two urban development projects. These projects have helped create Tunisia's
public utility companies and improved urban services in at least 26
municipalities.
1.13     The First Bank Urban Development project (Tunis District Urban
Planning and Public Transport Project) was a transport project completed in
March 1982. It was instrumental in (i) establishing the District of Tunis,
the first regional planning authority in Tunisia, (ii) addressing the public



transport needs of Greater Tunis through the renewal and expansion of the bus
fleet owned by the Societe Nationale des Transports (SNT) and the construction
of a bus maintenance facility, (iii) renovating the Tunis-la Goulette-la Marsa
(TGM) suburban railway, (iv) improving traffic conditions in the center of
Tunis, and (v) preparing studies for the second urban development project.
1.14     Performance under this project was mixed.  The District of Tunis has
not been fully successful in becoming the capital region's driving force for
urban planning; however, it was influential in guiding policy in such sectors
as low income housing, small scale enterprises, and spatial patterns of
development in Greater Tunis. It has also contributed in the preparation of
the proposed third project. SNT expanded its network, met its targets and
improved its cost control considerably. The municipality of Tunis implemented
improvements to its traffic management program, and launched a program
significantly larger than planned at appraisal and with marked success.
1.15     The Second Urban Development Project, which includes upgrading, sites
and services, improvement of solid waste collection and disposal, and a line
of credit for small scale business was approved in May 1979 and is currently
being implemented. Civil works under the project and particularly
infrastructure, are advancing well, implementation in Tunis has incurred some
cost overruns and delays due to site conditions and poor coordination. The
remaining core housing is to be constructed by beneficiaries through self-help
techniques which is more cost efficient and caters better to their needs. The
solid waste component has suffered delays in establishing an agency to manage
the collection and transport of solid wastes in Greater Tunis. However, the
Government is presently in the process of identifying such an authority. The
availability of loans from a national fund instituted during project
implementation at more attractive rates for small scale business than those
under the project led to the under utilization of the line of credit for small
scale business. The component therefore was recently cancelled and the funds
reallocated to technical assistance and civil works. The channeling of
project funds through the Caisse de Prets et de Soutien des Collectivites
Locales (CPSCL), an agency that lends to municipalities for financing
community facilities and infrastructure, has proven efficient, and the
technical assistance component financed by UNDP is advancing well. The
Central Project Unit for the project was recently transferred to the MOH and
has been renamed the Department for Upgrading and Urban Renewal (para. 5.02).
It is continuing its coordinating activities under the second project and
prepared the tbird project in cooperation witb ARRU whicb will be the main
executing agency.
1.16     The Bank, in cooperation with MOH, recently completed a housing
sector study (green cover dated September 17, 1982) whose findings indicate
that some of the main bottlenecks in the sector are:  (i) unavailability of
sufficient and affordable serviced land for housing; (ii) institutional
complexities; (iii) inadequacy of existing financing and savings plans for
housing; (iv) failure of public housing programs to reach families in the
lowest third of the national income curve; and (v) insufficient attention
given to spatial implications in housing planning. The sector study coincided
with the preparation of Tunisia's Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) and was
used as a major input for the formulation of housing policy. The proposed
project is designed to resolve some of the problems identified in the sector
study, particularly the bottleneck in serviced land, the unavailability of
credit for housing for low income families, and the insufficient coordi-
nation between the various housing agencies concerned.



1.17     Urban Strategy;  One of the main objectives of the Sixth Development
Plan is to reduce social and regional disparities. The housing plan is
expected to play a leading role towards achieving this objective. Preliminary
figures indicate that housing will absorb about 12.2% of investments under the
Sixth Plan, or at least TD one billion in current prices for 160,000 units.
This is an ambitious program which puts great pressure on both the public and
private sectors but which is justified and responsive to sectoral priorities.
1.18     The Bank's strategy for the sector would build on the successes of
earlier work. For the 1980s, the Bank should continue to focus on shelter,
urban transportl! and assist in resolving the key issues mentioned in
para. 1.16. The proposed project is site oriented like the second urban
project. It moreover makes use of and strengthens the MOH and its agencies
(ARRU, CNEL and AFH) and improves interagency coordination to address the
sectoral and national urban programs. Future lending in the sector would tend
towards a "sectoral" or "institutional" approach, that is, loans to specific
institutions on the basis of agreed national urban programs. Responsibility
for the formulation of programs and for projects preparation would rest with
the Ministry of Housing and its specialized agencies, CNEL, AFH and ARRU.
This approach would strengthen existing institutions rather than create new
ones and would lend itself well to cofinancing arrangements.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01     The proposed project, identified in June 1981 and appraised in
February 1982, is in line with government priorities and Bank strategy. Its
objectives are to assist the Tunisian authorities to:
- design and implement projects providing better shelter and improved
urban services for low-income populations;
- redress inequities in housing policy by reaching low income
families which currently cannot afford housing with adequate urban
services as provided by the formal sector;
- strengthen the institutional framework of agencies involved in the
urban and housing sectors, and ensure better coordination between
them; and
- encourage a national approach to housing planning and policy
formulation.
B. Main Features
Project Cities and Sites
2.02     The First and Second Urban Development Projects concentrated on the
two largest cities of the country, Tunis and Sfax. To extend the benefits of
urban upgrading to deprived areas outside the large cities and to provide a
1/   Yellow cover urban transport review report dated August 23, 1982.



rational basis for site selection, a study to identify priority squatter
settlements requiring upgrading was commissioned by MOINT with financial
assistance from USAID and released in April 1981.
2.03     Field visits by Bank missions to many of the sites proposed in the
above study indicated that the most pressing problems are still in Tunis,
followed by the interior of the country, particularly the Northwest.
Accordingly, eight sites were identified and studied; of those five were
selected for financing under the proposed project. The selection criteria
were (i) physical conditions of the settlements; (ii) lack of infrastructure,
especially sewerage and roads; (iii) level of overcrowding; and (iv) income
levels. Future operations would replicate the project in the other sites
identified in the MOINT/USAID study.
2.04     Three of the sites are located in Greater Tunis (Kram Ouest, Hafsia,
and Ettadhamen) and two in the northwest region (Zghadia and Sidi Chrichi).
Detailed information on the five sites is given in Annex 1. Kram Ouest with a
population of about 4,400 is located east of Tunis in the coastal community of
la Goulette. Hafsia in the Medina occupies an area of 13.5 ha in the center
of Tunis and has a population of about 4,000. Ettadhameni/ in the northwest
of the Tunis District has an area of about 700 ha and a population of about
55,000. Zghadia in Jendouba occupies an area of 26 ha and has a population of
about 4,300 inhabitants. Sidi Chrichi in Le Kef occupies an area of 18 ha and
has a population of about 3,400 inhabitants.
2.05     The project sites represent three different aspects of low-income
settlements in Tunisia. Ettadhamen is a poor to middle-income, rapidly
growing, low density area mainly inhabited by people moving out of Tunis. It
is characterized by the lack of infrastructure and the illegality of most of
its land tenure. The project at Ettadhamen is preventative in nature rather
than curative and is designed to ensure that the area does not develop
haphazardly. A system of infrastructure would upgrade the area and would
control and guide the direction of its growth. Kram Ouest, Sidi Chrichi, and
Zghadia are squatter settlements lacking suitable infrastructure, and inhabited
by low-income settlers. In these settlements, the objective is to improve
living conditions wbich have deteriorated rapidly. Hafsia is structured like
an old Arab city with intricate narrow winding roads and houses built around
interior courts. It is inhabited mainly by poor rural immigrants and is
characterized by excessive overcrowding, especially in large, old mansions
which have been subdivided (oukalas), and the advanced stage of deterioration
of its buildings and infrastructure. The objective here is to revitalize and
renovate the area, and demonstrate the feasibility of upgrading medinas
without displacing populations and by associating the private sector in the
development process.
Components
2.06     A detailed description of the components is sbown in Annex 1 and
summarized below.
(a) The upgrading component in Ettadhamen, Kram Ouest, Zghadia and
Sidi Chrichi consists of (i) improvement and extension of
1/    Wherever reference is made to Ettadhamen, it refers to Ettadhamen/Douar
Hicher.



-8-
infrastructure networks including road and footpaths, water,
sewerage, storm water drainage, electricity as well as
connections to utility networks, (ii) providing community
facilities, (iii) providing loans through CNEL for home
extension and for construction of about 400 houses on vacant
plots between buildings (infill plots).
(b)   The Sites and Services and Housing Credit component consists of
a line of credit under which beneficiaries would be offered a
single package enabling them to purchase a developed site and
obtain a loan for construction of a dwelling. This linking of
the purchase of a serviced plot and the financing of
construction in a single package through AFH and CNEL
constitutes an innovation in housing policy in Tunisia. The
scheme would comprise a total of about 1,600 new serviced plots
at Ettadhamen, Zghadia, and Sidi Chrichi. About 600 of the
plots would be for rehousing families displaced to reduce
overcrowding (dedensification) or as a result of necessary
demolition in the project areas, and about 1,000 plots would be
to satisfy new demand. Serviced plots would range from 60m2
to 120m2 and would be provided with water, electricity and
sewerage connections. Construction on the plots would range
from 12m2 to 40m2. Technical advice and architectural
plans to assist the beneficiaries would also be provided
through ARRU.
c)    Revitalization of Hafsia
Hafsia is a well defined neighborhood in the Medina which
consists of a large vacant central space surrounded by low
income housing in a very poor state. The revitalization of
Hafsia is a pilot program which could eventually be replicated
elsewhere in Tunisia or abroad. It comprises the following:
(i) improvement of infrastructure including roads, water supply,
sewerage, electricity, telecommunications, and gas networks
throughout the area;
(ii) construction of some commercial buildings and housing units on
part of the vacant land by the municipality to set standards and
patterns for development of the whole area;
(iii) sale of the remaining serviced land by the municipality to
developers who would build small hotels, dwellings and commercial
buildings. Profit from the sales would be used to supplement
the funds needed for upgrading of the low income sections of
Hafsia (para. 4.05);
(iv) upgrading of about 47,000 m2 housing in the low income areas
and construction of about 135 new houses on infill plots and
additional floors on existing buildings where possible. About
610 of the 620 families affected by the dedensification program
of Hafsia would be rehoused in the same area; the rest would be



- 9 -
compensated and offered plots in other project sites in the
Tunis area. A public relations program would also be included
to explain the upgrading concept and encourage participation in
the project.
d)    Technical Assistance and Consultant Engineering Services
Technical assistance (Annex I, page 5) would be provided to
strengthen project institutions, particularly the Ministry of
Housing, ARRU, the Ministry of Transport and Communications,
and the Municipalities. It is designed to improve the Tunisian
authorities' capability to design, prepare procurement and bid
dc->¢ments and implement urban projects. The technical
assistance would include six man years of experts to train local
counterparts in urban planning, engineering and finance, and
11 man years of fellowship. Preinvestment funds for the
preparation of studies for a possible fourth urban project and
for the establishment of an urban data bank are also included.
Funds are also included to assist the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC) to prepare preinvestment studies for the
transport sectoral policies and the preparation of a future
transport project.
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, AND EXECUTION
A. Cost Estimates
3.01    Total project cost is estimated at US$60.10 million (including the
front end fee of US$0.4 million) with a foreign exchange component of
US$25.0 million, or 42% of total project cost. Local taxes account for 20% of
total local cost. The estimated total cost and foreign exchange percent by
main project component are summarized in Table 3 and shown in detail in
Annex 2.
3.02    Basis for cost estimates.  Estimated costs of civil works are based on
advanced preliminary designs prepared by consultants and on the analysis of
current unit prices for projects of a similar nature. Baseline costs bave
been adjusted to reflect anticipated prices at negotiations (October, 1982).
3.03    Costs for technical assistance for consultants and advisory services
including fees, subsistence and travel are estimated according to recent
experience at about US$11,000 per man-month.
3.04    Contingency allowance.  Physical contingencies have been estimated at
15% of the estimated base cost for all civil works including site and services
infrastructure. No physical contingencies have been included for housing
credit, technical assistance, and administrative costs.
3.05    Price contingencies for local costs have been calculated in line witb
the expected increase of 10% for 1982, 9% for 1983 and 8% for subsequent
years. Price increases on the foreign component have been calculated in
accordance with Bank guidelines on the basis of 8.0% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5%
for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and 6.0% thereafter. These represent an overall price
contingency of about 25% of baseline costs and physical contingencies or a
total contingency of about 40% of baseline costs (Annex 2, Table 3).



Tunisia:  Third Urban Development Project
Table 3: Cost Estimates by Main Comnponent
Percent      Percent    Percent
TD (Million)                   U.S.$ (Million)           Foreign       Base        Total
Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total         Exchange    Coat          Cost
A.  Offsite Infrastructure              1.51       1.47      2.98       3.01      2.94      5.95        49.4        13.9        10.0
B.  Upgrading                           2.87      2.10      4.97        5.74      4.20      9.94        42.3        23.2        16.6
C.  Preparation of Serviced Sites   1.05          0.54      1.59        2.10      1.08      3.18        34.0         7.4         5.3
D.  Housing Credit                      1.41      1.18       2.59       2.82      2.36      5.18        45.0        12.0         8.7
E.  Rehabilitation of liafsia           4.14      2.02      6.16        8.28      4.04    12.32         32.8        28.7        20.6
F.  Technical Assistance                0.34      1.54       1.88       0.69      3.08      3.77        81.7         8.8         6.3           1
G.  Project Administration              1.28       -        1.28        2.56       -        2.56          -          6.0         4.3
TOTAI. BASE COST              12.60      8.85    21.45        25.20    17.70    42.90          41.3       100.0        71.8
H. Contingencies
1.  Physical Contigencies           1.42      0.85      2.27       2.84      1.70      4.54         37.4                     7.6
2.  Price Increase                  3.53      2.60      6.13       7.06      5.20    12.26          42.4                   20.5
Total Contingencies                 4.95      3.45      8.40       9.90      6.90    16.80          41.1                    28.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST            17.55    12.30    29.85         35.10    24.60    59.70          41.2                   100.0
Front-End Fee                    -          0.20      0.20       -         0.40      0.40
TOTAL BANK FINANCING                     12.50    30.05                  25.00    60.10



- Il -
B. Financing Plan
3.06     The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million would cover the foreign
exchange component of the project including the front end fee, or 42% of total
project cost. The remaining cost would be financed by the Government either
directly or through budgetary allocations to public agencies, by beneficiary
downpayments including participants in existing CNEL and FOPROLOS programs,
and by private developers. The financing plan is summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: Project Financing Plan
TD million         US$ million
IBRD                                  12.50               25.00
Government                            11.35               22.70
Beneficiaries                          3.80                 7.60
Private Developers                     2.40                4.80
Total Cost                      30.05                60.10
3.07     The loan would be made to the Government at the standard variable
interest rate, with a repayment period of 20 years including 3 years of
grace. Of the proceeds, 1.5% ($0.4 million) would repay the front-end fee,
25.5% ($6.4 million) would be on-lent to CPSCL and 73% would be channeled by
means of budgetary allocations, out of which (19% or $4.8 million) would be to
CNEL under the terms described in para. 3.08 and (54% or $13.4 million) would
be to the various ministries and public agencies (utility companies, and ARRU)
concerned with the project. The foreign exchange risk would be absorbed by
the Government as well as all non payment risks except for 5% of CNEL's line
of credit which would be absorbed by CNEL.
3.08     Out of the total cost of the project estimated at US$59.70 million,
an amount of US$4.8 million for the new construction in Hafsia would be
provided by private developers. The balance of US$54.9 million consisting of
the loan and its counterpart funds would be processed by the Government as
follows:
(i)   US$22.7 million would be made available as budgetary
allocations to the ministries and agencies concerned for
primary infrastructure (water, sewerage, electricity and
telephone), community facilities, project administration, and
technical assistance.
(ii)  US$13.8 million would be lent to the municipalities through
CPSCL for all secondary infrastructure, on site roads and
storm water drainage, and for the first phase of new
construction in Hafsia. Out of this amount, CPSCL would
borrow from the Government US$6.4 million out of the proceeds
of the Bank's loan with a term of 20 years including 2 years



- 12 -
of grace at 11.43 p.a. and US$7.4 million out of Government
funds with a term of 20 years at 2% for non-income generating
works and 4% for income generating components. CPSCL would
lend all funds at cost for an average interest rate of 6.85%.
(iii)  US$10.8 million for the sites and services and the new housing
credit component would be managed for the Treasury by CNEL to
finance the purchase of serviced plots and construction of
dwellings as well as housing extensions and construction of
infill plots within the upgrading areas, out of this amount
US$4.8 million would be from the proceeds of Bank's loan and
the equivalent of $6.0 million from budgetary allocations.
The funds would be lent to beneficiaries at 7% over 15 years
including two years of grace. CNEL would receive a management
fee of 1% on its disbursements and an incentive fee of 2% on
the amounts it recovers.
(iv)  The remaining US$7.6 million represents (i) payments by
beneficiaries and CNEL and FOPROLOS subscribers to the CNEL
sites and services/housing credit ($4.4 million), and
(ii) proceeds from the sale of plots in Hafsia ($3.2 million)
which would be channeled to the Municipality of Tunis Special
Account (para. 4.05).
3.09     Management and lending arrangements concerning CNEL and CPSCL are
detailed in Annexes 3 and 4. During negotiations, agreement was reached on a
draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and CPSCL and a Manage-
ment Agreement between the Government and CNEL. Agreement was also reached on
the measures to be taken by the Government enabling the municipalities to
borrow from CPSCL. Signature of the subsidiary loan agreement and the
management agreement, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.10     Interest Rates.  The rates applied by commercial banks in Tunisia for
medium-term lending vary between 9.75 to 10.25 percent per annum, with the
exception of lending for export-oriented and regional projects, for which it
is between 7.75 and 8 percent. The rates currently charged in the urban and
housing sector by CPSCL and CNEL are well below these levels. Agreements were
reached during negotiations that starting December 1, 1983, the Government
would review with the Bank the interest rate structure in the housing sector
taking into consideration the cost of capital and the general evolution of
interest rates in Tunisia, with an understanding that the objective would be a
possible progressive increase in the interest rates to a positive rate by
December 31, 1987.
3.11     Project Cash Flows.  Cash flows for the project are shown in Annex 5.
Financial statements for both CNEL and CPSCL are shown in Annexes 6 and 7
respectively. By 1990, when all project funds will have been disbursed, the
cumulative net inflows for the project would be US$1.12 million. The net
inflows will increase in subsequent years by about US$2 million per year as
beneficiaries continue their repayments reaching a net inflow of US$5.1
million in 1992. This surplus would allow the replicability of the project on
future sites.



- 13 -
C. Execution and Maintenance
Execution
3.12     The municipalities would delegate responsibility for implementing the
project to ARRU. The role of each of the agencies involved in managing
project implementation is described in Chapter V. In order to ensure
effective coordination of the project and speedy resolution of project issues
it was agreed during negotiations that ARRU would maintain a Technical
Committee which includes representatives of concerned agencies, and that, in
the event tha- the technical committee is unable to resolve a policy issue, it
will be referrecr to the Inter Ministerial Committee comprising representatives
of MOE, MOH, MOINT and MOPF set up for the purpose under the Second Urban
Development Project. Arrangements for execution of the project are summarized
below.
3.13     Upgrading.  In the sites within the municipalities of La Goulette,
Kef and Jendouba, and at Ettadhamen in the District of Tunis (para. 5.14),
ARRU would be responsible for project execution. The municipalities and the
District of Tunis would delegate the responsibility for bidding to ARRU, which
would enter into contracts with both contractors and the utility companies
(ONAS, SONEDE, and STEG) and would supervise the works. Details of these
arrangements were included in agreements between the municipalities, and the
District of Tunis, the utility companies on the one hand, and ARRU on the
other hand. Drafts of these agreements were reviewed by the Bank and agreed
at negotiations. Their signature would be conditions of Board presentation.
3.14     Revitalization of Hafsia.  The Municipality of Tunis would delegate
its responsibility for execution of this component to ARRU (Annex 8). A
detailed master plan for the area has been prepared. During negotiations it
was agreed that promulgation decree approving the master plan would be issued
not later than December 31, 1983. Arrangements for execution would be similar
to those for upgrading (para. 3.13) with the additional provision that the
municipality could carry out building restoration works with the assistance of
one of its agencies, the Association for the Safeguard of the Medina (ASM).
These arrangements were discussed and agreed at negotiations; signature of an
agreement between the Municipality of Tunis and ARRU would be a condition of
Board presentation.
3.15     Sites and Services/Housing Credit Component.  AFH would be
responsible for completing the technical documents for site development, would
enter into contracts and administer the implementation of civil works. CNEL
would be responsible for the housing credit portion of the component. The
list of beneficiaries for the serviced sites would be established by a
committee chaired by the municipalities and including the representatives of
CNEL and AFH (para. 4.06). Draft agreements between CNEL and AFH and ARRU and
AFH for execution and operation of the component were reviewed by the Bank,
and were agreed at negotiations. Signature of these agreements would be a
condition of Board presentation.
3.16     Technical assistance.  The program would be coordinated by MOH and
ARRU and the MTC. Profiles for the experts to be recruited have been reviewed
and are acceptable to the Bank. The training component programs would be
submitted to the Bank for approval prior to departure of candidates.



- 14 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that experts would be recruited on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and that the overall program
would be executed in line with the implementation schedule.
3.17      Implementation Schedule.  Final detailed design and tender documents
for the first phase of the work consisting of upgrading the infrastructure
including roadways would be submitted by December 1982. Tenders for this
first phase would be invited by March 1983 and works are expected to commence
by June 1983. The expected completion date for all project works and the
technical assistance program is December 31, 1989 with an additional six month
period to allow for full withdrawal of the loan proceeds. The closing date
would be June 30, 1990. Project implementation schedules are shown in Annex
9, Schedule I and 2.
3.18     Land acquisition and legalization of ownership.  It is necessary to
acquire, by direct negotiation or by expropriation, the land needed in both
upgrading and sites and services areas. Because most of the works in the
upgrading areas would be within the right of way of existing roads, land
acquisition is not expected to pose serious problems and work can commence
there immediately. A considerable amount of land for the sites and services
components is privately owned, 40% in Ettadhamen, 25% in Hafsia and 100% in Le
Kef and Jendouba. To ensure expeditious acquisition of this land, ARRU would
undertake all land transactions for the project in accordance with its
procedures, which permit rapid expropriation (expropriation en cas d'urgence),
a facility which is not available to other agencies. The Government would
give ARRU an initial advance of US$400,000 by June 30, 1983 as working capital
to initiate purchase of needed land. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations. The privately owned land should not cause major delays in
project implementation as the first operations of the project could commence
on land which the government already possesses. The promulgation of
expropriation decrees for the needed land for the sites and services component
would be a condition of disbursement of funds for that specific component.
3.19     A major instrument that encourages the maintenance and upgrading of
housing is the provision of security of tenure and the legalization of the
occupancy status for the inhabitants. Although Tunisia has a modern land
registration system, much of the land is not yet registered, particularly in
the project sites. Proof of ownership is based on a traditional title
system. In order to ensure security of tenure, new titles would be issued
upon request to plot holders in upgrading areas after they have paid off
improvement charges. The director of administrative services in each
municipality would be responsible for encouraging owners to register their
land in the modern cadastral system.
Maintenance
3.20     Annual costs for operation and maintenance of infrastructure are
estimated at 0.5% to 5.0% of capital costs depending on the category. The
utility companies would be responsible for all maintenance and operating costs
for water, sewerage and electricity; municipalities would be responsible for
road maintenance, surface drainage, street lighting, and solid waste
disposal. The municipalities and the utility companies are capable of
providing these services and assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
municipalities would undertake the appropriate operating and maintenance



- 15 -
programs for the above items in the neighborhoods affected by the project and
that the necessary funds for this purpose would be made available.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.21     Civil works in the upgrading and sites and services areas of the
project are (i) dispersed over five sites, (ii) to be contracted separately
for each category of works over a period of 3-4 years, and (iii) to be
executed and administered by several municipalities and parastatal utility
companies. Therefore, it is not practical to aggregate most works into large
contract packages suitable for ICB with the possible exception of contracts
over US$0.8 million which would be executed through ICB in accordance with
Bank guidelines. These contracts are expected to occur only at Ettadhamen.
All other civil works would be procured through local procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
3.22     In the Medina, given the difficult site conditions, such as limited
access for modern construction equipment, narrow winding streets and the lack
of storage areas, the upgrading work for infrastructure and buildings (with
aggregate amounts of about US$1.5 and US$2.0 million) would be executed by the
municipality of Tunis on force account following Bank approval.
3.23     Execution of water, sewerage and electricity works not covered by ICB
(para. 3.21) would be handled according to the procedures of the three
parastatal utility companies concerned, ONAS, SONEDE and STEG. They would
call for tenders to procure materials and select contractors for their work,
following procedures satisfactory to the Bank or would enter into contracts
with ARRU or would execute the works on force account following Bank approval.
3.24     For building materials procured from the proceeds of the housing
credit loans, the selection of suppliers would be left to the initiative of
beneficiary households. CNEL would administer the loans and reimburse
beneficiaries up to the approved ceiling of the loan on the basis of progress
in construction. CNEL's records of disbursements would be available for
examination by Bank missions.
3.25     The large number of small contracts in the project, their similarity
and the capability of the borrower agencies to procure efficiently would make
prior review of more than 50% of the contracts superfluous. Therefore only
draft procurement documents for civil works based on ICB and contracts locally
procured exceeding $0.35 million, accounting for about 50% of all contracts,
would be forwarded to the Bank for prior review and approval. Other contracts
would be subject to review after their award but prior to the first
application for withdrawal of funds.
Disbursements
3.26     The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 10) is based on an
implementation scbedule of seven years. The scbedule is consistent with the
disbursement profile for Bank loans in Tunisia.



- 16 -
3.27     The disbursement percentages reflect the estimated foreign exchange
component of each item. Disbursement would be as follows:
(i) Civil works and construction loans: 45% of total expenditures.
(ii) Sites and services housing line of credit: 30% of total
expenditures.
(iv) Technical assistance: 80% of total expenditures.
(v) The front-end fee would be withdrawn by, and paid to the Bank
at loan effectiveness.
3.28     Disbursement would be fully documented except for (i) civil works
carried out on force account, and (ii) the housing line of credit where
certified statements of expenditure would be required. The borrower would
retain all documentation to support the disbursements and would keep records
of all expenditures for examination by Bank missions.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.29     Accounting for municipalities would follow the procedures of the
Tunisian Plan Comptable Public which adequately provides for recording of
project expenditures. Accounting for the sites and services component would
also be under public accounting procedures as CNEL would manage funds for the
Treasury. Separate accounts for each project component would be set up to
record all project related expenditures. These accounts would be audited by
the Controle General des Finances which is qualified to audit the accounts and
is acceptable to the Bank; audit reports would be sent to the Bank not later
than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances on these
arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
3.30     CPSCL, AFH, and ARRU have acceptable accounting systems based on the
Tunisian Plan Comptable Commercial. Each institution has agreed to keep
separate accounts for project related financial transactions. ONAS, STEG and
SONEDE would also keep separate accounts which would be audited as part of
their annual audits as required by the Bank in previous projects with these
agencies. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each institution
would have its accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and submit these accounts to the Bank within 6 months of the end of each
fiscal year.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.31     In view of the innovative nature of some of the components in the
Medina and at Ettadhamen, the project would require close monitoring to ensure
its proper implementation and to evaluate the response of beneficiaries. ARRU
would be responsible for such monitoring and evaluation (para 5.03). It would
prepare and send to the Bank (i) semi-annual progress reports not later than
six weeks from the end of each semester, and (ii) a project completion report
at the end of project works. The semi-annual reports would include a
performance evaluation of the implementing agencies, the financial status of



- 1 7 -
the project, and key indicators to measure the progress in execution and the
fulfillment of project objectives. Details of these reports were discussed at
negotiations and assurances obtained that ARRU would prepare the reports as
agreed.
G. Supervision
3.32    Bank supervision of the project would require up to 120 man-weeks
over the 6-year period of project implementation. Supervision efforts would
be concentrated in the first two and a half years to facilitate a good start
and prompt execution of project components. The staff required for
supervision would be an architect or engineer and a financial analyst or
economist. ARRU would be responsible for gathering relevant data on each
component, which would form the basis for supervision work.
IV. COST RECOVERY, FINANCIAL TERMS, INCOME DISTRIBUTION
AND AFFORDABILITY
A. Cost Recovery
4.01    About 78% of total project costs would be recovered in nominal terms
under the project (Table 5). Of recoverable costs, approximately two thirds
would be recovered directly from beneficiaries and the remainder indirectly
tbrough the local taxation system. Unrecovered costs would be charged to the
Government budget.
Table 5: Modes of Recovery
(US$ Millions)
Recovery Source
Total    Loan    Direct   Utility Charges   Frontage    Not
Cost    Repayment  Sale  and Tariffv  Tax  Recovered
Offaite tnfrastructure  7.8                 2.5              5.3
Oosite Upgrading except
llafais        12.2                        2.0      10.2
Onsite Upgrading for
Hafpia          11.2               3.3     1.2       6.7
Sites and Services!
Housing Credit   10.8     6.4       3.4     1.0
Construction (Haffia)  7.2           7.2
Cormunity Facilities  2.8                                     2.8
Institutional Development
Technical Assiatance  4.5                                    4.5
Project Administration  3.2         1.6               0.8    0.8
Total          59.70 I/  6.4     15.50    6.7       17.70  13.40
Percentage    100       10.7     26.0     11.2      29.6  22.5
1/    Excluding US$0.4 million front end fee.



- 18 -
4.02     The pricing policy for the upgrading and sites and services programs
would aim at ensuring: (a) effective overall cost recovery; and
(b) affordability by the existing and intended low-income population. Land
would be charged to the beneficiaries in the sites and services area at cost
of acquisition and development. Land reserved for community facilities would
be transferred to the appropriate Ministry at development cost whereas land
for commercial development would be sold at auction. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the terms and conditions for pricing of sites and
improvements and for cost recovery from beneficiaries would be as above.
B. Financial Terms and Conditions for Beneficiaries
4.03     For the sites and services/housing credit component, the nominal
recovery terms would be: minimum downpayment of 20% of cost and a loan of up
to 80% at 7% p.a. over 15 years including a grace period of 2 years. The
downpayment would be made by the beneficiary to CNEL; CNEL would disburse an
additional amount, up to 15% of cost, as the first portion of its loan. The
combined amount would then be transferred to AFH on an agreed schedule as
payment for the cost of the serviced plot (estimated at 30-35% of total
cost). During the 2-year period of site development, the beneficiary would
only pay the interest on the loan funds advanced by CNEL. Upon delivery of
the serviced plot by AFH, the balance of the CNEL loan (65% of cost) would be
released (and drawn down in portions as construction of the dwelling
advances); the beneficiary would then start repaying principal and interest
over the remaining 13-year life of the loan. The actual amount of the
financial package made available to the beneficiary would be based on
affordability, plot size and construction area.
4.04     Because there is provision for direct recovery of connections to
houses in utility company regulations, it was agreed, that in the upgrading
areas SONEDE would recover connection costs for water and sewerage for both
itself and ONAS; and that STEG would do the same for electricity. Recovery
would be through monthly repayments at 9% annual interest over 5 years with an
option to pay some or all of the amount due as a cash payment. The munici-
palities would recover the cost of site development, secondary water, sewerage
and electrical networks, street lighting and stormwater drainage through the
Contribution des Riverains which is a frontage tax administered by the
municipalities for MOINT and which is being used under the Second Urban
Development project. Repayment would be over 20 years at 7% p.a. These terms
would be reflected in decrees permitting establishment of the Contribution des
Riverains in all project sites by June 30, 1984. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
4.05     In Hafsia, profits from the sale of serviced sites and buildings
would be channeled to a Special Account, which would be separated from other
existing municipal funds and would be used to finance upgrading through grants
and/or loans. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the establishment
of the Special Account in a form satisfactory to the Bank by January 1, 1984.
The terms and conditions for the application of the Special Account and of
their recovery would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval. It is
expected that low income families in the area would be offered a program of
lease-sale (location-vente) which would transfer the ownership of upgraded
municipality-owned housing to the beneficiaries through a deferred purchase
scheme with no initial downpayment. A program to encourage owners of



- 19 -
dilapidated buildings to upgrade their properties with financial assistance
from CNEL, the Special Account or other sources to be identified would also be
initiated. Recovery terms are expected to be as follows:
(i) For serviced sites and buildings in the central vacant area:
cash sales at prevailing market rates;
(ii)  for upgrading of existing buildings: - loans at 7% annual
interest for up to 25 years; and
(iii)  for construction on infill plots, same terms as for upgrading
but with a downpayment of 15%.
C. Beneficiary Selection
4.06     For serviced sites, a Selection Committee chaired by the municipality
concerned and including AFH and CNEL would be responsible for preparation of
initial beneficiary lists. Final selection would be made on the following
basis: (i) First priority would be given to beneficiaries whose houses have
been demolished under the upgrading component or who have been required to
leave their lodging as part of the effort to reduce overcrowding; (ii) second
priority would be for families living at the sites. An upper limit of 20% of
the lots would be reserved for subscribers of CNEL and FOPROLOS financing
schemes; (iii) out of the individuals not included in CNEL or FOPROLOS
schemes, the lots would be available to those who own no bouse, have a monthly
income between TD 50 and TD 110 in 1981 Dinars. The prescribed monthly income
and procedures for the selection of beneficiaries would be indexed to the
guaranteed minimum wage increases. Selection would also he related to certain
criteria related to the beneficiaries' family situation. Selection criteria
were reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
4.07     For five years from the date of purchase of each plot, permission to
transfer ownership of titles must be obtained from the Division of Public
Domain within the Administrative Department of each Municipality which would
grant permission only in special circumstances. This Division would have the
first option to purchase the plots. In cases of default on payments,
plotholders would be given six months notice, then procedures would be
initiated in accordance with existing laws. Beneficiaries would be required
to use the land for the construction of a house and to start construction
within one year of plot delivery. These conditions would be incorporated in
draft standard loans and sales contracts between beneficiaries, AFH and CNEL,
which were reviewed by the Bank and agreed at negotiations.
D. Income Profiles, Affordability Analysis and Urban Poverty Impact
4.08     Annex 11 shows the 1981 income distribution of (i) the total urban
population, and (ii) the population of project sites and cities. The median
income of the total urban population is TD 112/household/month and ranges
between TD 55 and TD 135 in project sites. The income distribution as well as
household expenditures of prospective beneficiaries in the project areas are
derived from surveys carried out by consultants, and form the basis for the
affordability analysis. The surveys show that shelter accounts for about 34%



- 20 -
of the total budget of urban households. Some 19-21% of that is spent on
current housing expenditures (i.e. rent, utilities, etc.); the balance of
13-15% is available for possible investment and improvement of bousing.
Upgrading. On the basis of household expenditures of up to 15% of
income, the proposed upgrading would be affordable on average by 86%
of the population in Kram Ouest and 92% in Ettadhamen; other sites
fall between the 86-92% range. Development charges, monthly payments
and percentiles reached in each project site are shown in Annex 12,
Table 1.
Sites and Services. The household surveys indicate that prospective
low-income beneficiaries would be able and willing to spend about 25%
of their monthly income for the acquisition of serviced plots and
construction loans. The majority of beneficiaries would not need to
allocate more than 23% of their income to participate in this
program. The down payment of 20% would not exceed 6 months' income
equivalent in the case of the least expensive option consisting of a
plot of 60 m2 with 12m2 of construction. This least expensive
option would be affordable to more than 90% of the population in
Tunis and 85% of the population in Le Kef and Jendouba. It is
expected that the substantial increase in supply of serviced plots in
the project sites would allow for both movement within the existing
housing stock and increase rental opportunities, which would benefit
the poorest segment of the population. Plot options, charges,
monthly repayments and percentiles reached are shown in Annex 12,
Table 2.
Revitalization of Hafsia. Affordability tests for Hafsia indicate
that the least expensive option (units of 30m2 of net habitable space
in upgraded buildings) is affordable by 88% of the population of
Hafsia. The percentage of monthly income to be spent for payment of
the loans obtained from the Special Account would not exceed 25% of
total household income which is in line with the beneficiaries
declared ability and willingness to pay for acquisition of new
shelter. Dwelling unit options, development costs, payments, and
percentiles reached are shown in Annex 12, Table 3.
Urban Poverty Impact
4.09     Overall about 77,000 persons would benefit directly or indirectly
from services provided under the project, of which some 20,000 (26%) would
have incomes below the Bank defined absolute urban poverty threshold in 1981
(para. 1.07). Overall, about 31% of total project costs would benefit these
households. Of the 10,700 beneficiaries who would occupy the sites and
services plots and the 28,800 beneficiaries in upgrading areas, 6,600 (62%)
and 9,050 (31%) respectively would be urban poor (Annex 13).
4.10     The sectoral indicators for urban poverty are:
(a) about 62% of the 2,000 project serviced plots would be
affordable by the urban poor;
(b) about 21% (1,180 units) of the demand for new shelter by the
urban poor in project cities would be met between 1983-1988;



- 21 -
(c) the percentage of urban poor among the population of the project
cities and sites is as follows;
- 10% in Tunis, 22% in Le Kef and 19% in Jendouba
- 20% at Ettadhamen, 48% at Hafsia, 24% at Kram Ouest, 58% at
Sidi Chrichi and 48% at Zghadia.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01     The project would rely on using and strenthening existing
institutions in order to ensure the effective control, coordination and
execution of the project. Overall execution, management and coordination
would be through ARRU. AFH would implement the sites and services component,
and CNEL and CPSCL would be the financial intermediaries controlling the flow
of funds. The profile of the agencies involved in the project and the
institutional arrangements for the operation and management of the project are
detailed below.
A. Ministry of Housing (MOH)
5.02     The MOH is the technical ministry responsible for preparation of the
project and its Department for Upgrading and Urban Renewal which is
responsible for setting national policies for upgrading and urban renewal,
would provide a link between the project and the Ministry. MOH has
strengthened its regional representation by creating local offices
(arrondissements) in Le Kef and Jendouba to be staffed with technical
expertise in all aspects of housing construction and maintenance. MOH is also
anxious to provide continuous training for municipal staff in technical,
administrative and financial aspects of management. A part of the technical
assistance program would be administered by the Department of Upgrading and
Urban Renewal (Annex 2, Table 10) and includes funds for 11 man-years of
training for the staff of the municipalities in technical, administrative and
financial matters. In order to ensure continuation of the effort begun under
the sector study, 2 man-years of technical assistance to MOH in urban planning
and programming have been also provided.
B. Agence pour la Rehabilitation et la Renovation Urbaine (ARRU)
5.03     ARRU would be responsible for the overall execution, monitoring, and
coordination of the project. It would liaise with the Bank, acquire the
needed land for the project and transfer it at cost to the municipalities and
AFH. It would execute the upgrading components on behalf of the
municipalities and would provide advice to beneficiaries in housing design and
construction. It would also expropriate and compensate people displaced due
to project execution.



- 22 -
5.04     ARRU was created in August 1981 (Law 81/69) under the MOH.  The
decrees naming a president and establishing its organisation chart were
promulgated in January 1982. Its board consists of representatives of
concerned ministries and the presidents of the utility companies which should
thus give ARRU quick access to the agencies concerned with project execution.
5.05     ARRU's statutes give it broad powers which allow it to intervene in
projects rapidly. It operates under private law and has financial autonomy,
access to bank credits, has the power to call for bids and award contracts and
can pay the salaries necessary to attract highly qualified staff; at the same
time, it benefits from some of the advantages of public sector agencies, that
is, the right of preemption and of expropriation.
5.06     In addition to its president, a financial director, a technical
director, a legal advisor, and an architect, and a team of 6 engineers have
been appointed. These individuals are all experienced and competent
professionals who should ensure a successful start for the project. In
conformity with the organisation chart (Annex 14, Chart 1), ARRU would also
appoint a director of studies to carry out project monitoring. For the first
two years of the project, ARRU would also engage, through the technical
assistance component, not later than September 30, 1983 an engineer and an
urban financial planner whose profiles have been agreed upon. Funds have also
been included in the technical assistance component for ARRU's financial
director to visit Washington to study Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures.
C. Agence Fonciere d'Habitation (AFH)
5.07     AFH, established together with the Tourism Land Agency and the
Industrial Land Agency under Law 73-21 in 1973, would be responsible for the
development of the serviced sites under the sites and services/housing credit
component. AFH is well staffed and is fully capable of carrying out this
function. It has agreed to develop the sites according to the standards
proposed under the project which would enable it to increase its output of
serviced plots while lowering its unit costs. Upon completion of the works,
AFH would deliver plots to the beneficiaries. AFH's organization chart is
provided in Annex 14, Chart 2.
5.08     There is no provision under Tunisian Law for the prefinancing of AFH
operations. This and the fact that AFH relies for financing on beneficiary
advance payments has limited its ability to expand. Under the project the
combined contribution from the beneficiary and the funds channeled through
CNEL for plot acquisition (para. 4.03) would ultimately lead to expansion of
AFH activities when the program is seen to be successful.
D. Caisse Nationale d'Epargne-Logement (CNEL)
5.09     CNEL is a semi public, autonomous agency established in 1974 to
channel domestic savings into the production of housing. It is a well managed



- 23 -
institution with firmly established procedures and has the capability of
carrying out its role under the project. It has regional offices in all
project sites and is therefore well placed to manage the financial aspects of
the sites and services/housing credit component.
5.10     CNEL would be responsible for selection of beneficiaries for sites
and services both from its savers according to their date of enrollment and
from the lists prepared by the Selection Committee on the basis of agreed
criteria. It would issue titles to lots secured by mortgage and would open
and maintain a line of credit for each beneficiary, disbursing against
progress of works.  Its managerial participation would also give the Bank an
opportunity to work closely with it with a view to developing it as an
institution capable of receiving direct Bank financing for executing future
Bank projects.
E. The Municipalities
5.11     The municipalities are supervised and administered by the MOINT
through the Direction des Collectivitds Publiques Locales. They have limited
implementation capacity due to difficulties in attracting competent
professionals, particularly in the interior of the country. Municipal
operating revenues in 1981 show that 70% of the municipal funds were provided
by the central government and, of those, 50% were funded from a variety of
national taxes. On average, over 80% of municipality investment budgets are
composed of state grants; the balance is in the form of loans from CPSCL.
5.12     The Selection Committee under the project chaired by the
municipalities would be responsible for the preparation of initial lists of
beneficiaries for sites and services. The municipalities would be responsible
for publicizing the project locally, for relations with residents of
neighborhoods involved in the project, assisting in land registration,
maintenance of storm water drainage, roads, street lighting and solid waste
disposal. Assurances to that effect were obtained during negotiations. The
municipalities would also be responsible for recovery of its investments in
infrastructure through the frontage tax (para. 4.04).
5.13     The Secretary General of each municipality concerned would be
responsible through its technical department to the President of the Municipal
Council for the monitoring of the proposed project. To ensure the proper
involvement of municipalities in the project the MOINT is strengthening the
municipalities and appointing a municipal engineer for each of the project
sites.
5.14     Ettadhamen is currently classified as a rural zone.  Under the
project, a municipality would be created. A decree to this effect has been
approved by MOINT and is currently being reviewed by MOPF and the Prime
Ministry. However, the District of Tunis would remain responsible under the
Project as the municipality's organization in the later years of Project
execution may still be too weak in order to ensure continuity in Project
execution. During negotiations, progress was reviewed and assurances were
obtained that the municipality would be created not later than May 31, 1985.



- 24 -
F. Caisse des Prets et de Soutien des Collectivites Locales (CPSCL)
5.15     CPSCL, is by statute a semi public, financially autonomous agency
which finances community facilities and municipal infrastructure through
long-term loans at low interest rates. It would be responsible for channeling
project funds to be lent to municipalities for upgrading, a function wbich it
is carrying out satisfactorily under the Second Urban Development Project.
5.16     The management of CPSCL's long term loan portfolio is handled by the
Tunisian Economic Development Bank (BDET) under a management agreement with
CPSCL. To improve CPSCL's capacity to appraise and follow up on projects,
BDET is to establish a unit, consisting of, inter alia, an economist, an
engineer, and a financial analyst on terms satisfactory to the Bank. This
team would follow up subprojects as well as advise the municipalities on
preparation of projects eligible for CPSCL financing. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the CPSCL/BDET management agreement will be
amended to this effect and the unit would be established by September 30, 1983.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01     The project would meet 21% of the demand for shelter of the urban
poor in the project cities between 1983 and 1988. It would benefit directly
or indirectly about 77,000 persons and would extend the benefits of upgrading
squatter settlements to regions outside the two main cities currently served
(Tunis and Sfax). Moreover, the creation of ARRU, together with the Bank
support it will receive under the project, should ensure replicable programs
for upgrading on a national basis. As part of the effort to create programs
on a national scale, the agencies involved in the project would establisb or
strengthen their representation in project cities, thus influencing and
assisting them carry out upgrading projects at the local level on the basis of
a well established national policy.
6.02       The cooperation between AFH and CNEL through the sites and
services/housing credit is noteworthy in that for the first time in Tunisia it
links the purchase of a serviced lot with funds for construction of a
dwelling. It would help resolve the major bottleneck in the urban sector
(lack of serviced land), would enable CNEL to find affordable units for its
subscribers and would help AFH resolve its tight financing problem and expand
its activities. The success of this component could lead to a gradual
amelioration of the problem of squatter settlements on the urban fringe at the
big cities.
6.03     Wbereas arrangements under the project appear to be complicated,
institutions are being asked to do little more than they currently do
routinely. The modest changes in their relations with one another, such as
CNELts new focus on lower income families or its financing of AFH's
operations, should result in greater cooperation between tnem and removal of
bottlenecks in the sector. The project facilitates cooperation between these



- 25 -
agencies (e.g. ARRU, AFH, and CNEL) and would thus strengthen them and improve
their effectiveness.  The project would also give the Bank the occasion to
work closely with these agencies and to begin to build up a relationship which
would prepare them as potential borrowers from the Bank.
6.04     The innovative approach of associating the private sector in the
revitalization process in Hafsia provides an opportunity to develop Hafsia at
little cost to the government and simultaneously would provide seed money from
the sale of land and buildings for further upgrading of the area.  This
component is a pilot project which, if successful would lead the way to
upgrading of other old Arab towns in Tunisia and abroad.
B. Economic Impact
6.05     The internal economic rate of return (IERR) in mid 1982 prices for
the upgrading, sites and services, and revitalization of Hafsia, representing
84% of total project cost, is estimated at 20%. The technical assistance
component and off-site infrastructure for Ettadhamen were not included in the
IERR calculations due to the difficulties in quantifying benefits. The rates
of return of each individual project component and the results of sensitivity
analyses are shown in Table 6 while the cost and benefit streams, the detailed
rates of return and the net present value for each site are shown in Annex 15.
Table 6: Internal Economic Rate of Return of the Project
IERR with.                     Upgrading  Sites &   Revitalization of   Total
Services        Hafsia         Project
- Base Case                       24%            18%            18%          20%
- Increase in Costs, 10%          21%            16%            16%          18%
- Decrease in Benefits, 10%       21%            15%            16%          18%
Inrease in Costs, 10% and
Decrease in Benefits, 10%       17%           13%             14%          16%
- Benefits Delayed by I Year    19%              14%            15%          17%
C. Project Risks
6.06     MOH is new and is still in the process of settling in; the
municipalities in the Northwest are weak and lack experienced staff. This
relative inexperience of agencies and staff will be gradually offset by the
technical assistance program (Annex 1, Page 5) which has been planned to fill
gaps in present skills and to train Tunisian staff to take over operations
upon completion of technical assistance contracts.



- 26 -
6.07     ARRU, the executing agency for the project, has also been recently
established, but the speed it showed in appointment of its staff and the
efficient way it has handled the matters related to the project offsets the
risks associated with its recent establishement.
6.08     The difficulties in implementing the upgrading works (para. 3.22)
could cause difficulties in revitalizing Hafsia. These difficulties would be
minimized through the recommended procurement procedures, sound organization
and coordination between the municipality and ASM. The public relations
program (para. 2.06) and incentives in the form of financial assistance
provided by the Special Account for upgrading (para. 4.05) would encourage the
current owners to improve maintenance of their buildings and make the
provision of affordable housing feasible.
6.09     Land acquisition normally is a potential cause for implementation
delays; these delays would be minimized because ARRU, which has the power to
expropriate rapidly, was assigned at an early stage responsibility for
coordinating all land acquisition activities. In addition, enough land to
allow the launching of the first operations without delay is already under the
control of the municipalities.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     During negotiations, the following documents were reviewed and
agreed:
- Draft subsidiary loan agreements between Government and CPSCL,
management agreement between Government and CNEL, and draft decrees
authorizing the municipalities to borrow from CPSCL (para. 3.09);
- Draft agreements between Municipalities, District of Tunis and
ARRU; AFH and ARRU; CNEL and AFH; and ARRU and national utility
companies for execution and operation of project components
(paras. 3.13, 3.14 and 3.15);
- Draft sales and loan contracts between beneficiaries and AFH (para.
4.07);
7.02     Agreements were obtained on the following:
- Implementation of the technical assistance component on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.16);
- Provision of an initial advance of US$400,000 from the Government
to ARRU to purchase land needed under the project by June 30, 1983
(para 3.18);



- 27 -
- Maintenance of roads, drainage and street lighting and provision of
solid waste disposal in project sites by the Municipalities and
that the necessary funds for that purpose would be made available
(para. 3.20);
- Procurement procedures as set out in paras. 3.21 to 3.25;
- Keeping of separate project accounts for all project component and
the auditing of these accounts by the Contr8le Getnral des Finances
for the municipalities and CNEL. The accounts for ARRU, AFH, the
utility companies, and CPSCL would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.29 and 3.30);
- Preparation by ARRU of semi-annual progress reports including a
summary of project accounts and eventually a PCR (para. 3.31);
- The pricing and cost recovery would be as indicated in paras. 4.01
and 4.02;
- Establishment of the Contribution des Riverains in project sites by
June 30, 1984 (para. 4.04);
- Establishment of the Special Account for upgrading in Hafsia in a
form satisfactory to the Bank by January 1, 1984 (para. 4.05);
- Selection criteria for beneficiaires would be by the Selection
Committee as agreed (para. 4.06);
- Engagement by ARRU of an engineering and an urban financial
planning expert by September 30, 1983 (para. 5.06);
- Displaced people due to project execution would be eligible to
become beneficiaries in the project sites and be compensated
adequately (para. 5.12);
- Creation of the municipality of Ettadbamen by May 31, 1985 (para.
5.14); and
- Establishment of a unit within BDET consisting of inter alia an
engineer, a financial analyst and an economist to help manage CPSCL
funds and to follow up subprojects through a revision of CPSCL/BDET
management agreement by September 30, 1983 (para. 5.16).
7.03     Conditions of Board Presentation
Signature of agreements between the following agencies for
execution, operation and maintenance of project components:
Municipalities and ARRU, District of Tunis and ARRU; CNEL and AFH;
ARRU and AFH, and ARRU and utility companies (paras. 3.13, 3.14,
and 3.15).



- 28 -
7.04     Conditions of Effectiveness
- Signature of subsidiary loan agreement between Government and CPSCL
and management agreement between Government and CNEL on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.09).
7.05     Conditions of Disbursement of Funds against related expenditures;
- For each Municipality with respect to the sites and services
component of the project, the promulgation of expropriation decrees
for the acquisition of the land needed for such component
(para. 3.18).
7.06     Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million for 20 years with 3 years of grace
to the Government of the Republic of Tunisia.



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
Tunisia; Third Urban Development Project
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher
1.       Location and Background.  The settlement of 700 hectares is located
to the northwest of Tunis. It is divided into two main sectors: Ettadhamen to
the east and Douar Hicher to the west, separated by an industrial zone.
2.       Existing Conditions. The area differs from other squatter
developments in Tunis in that; (i) the majority of its population (about 75%)
moved there from other parts of Tunis; (ii) it has a relatively young
population, with 53% below the age of 20; and (iii) household income varies
widely, ranging from about TD 30 a month to over TD 300, with a median income
of about TD 80. The area is characterized by the scattered nature of
development, poor vehicular accessibility and the absence of proper roadways
connecting its two main sections of Ettadhamen and Douar Hicher. It is
totally devoid of sewerage and stormwater drainage systems, most of the roads
are unpaved, piped water reaches about 23% of the population and electricity
reaches 44% and community facilities are insufficient.
3.       Upgrading.  The upgrading component comprises general aspects related
to the integration and development of the two main sectors of Ettadhamen/Douar
Hicher and specific aspects related to improvements at the two settlements of
Houfret El Maach (30.8 hectares, 1,280 families) and Khalid Ibn Oualid(17.0
hectares, 550 families) within the area. Upgrading elements would consist of
the following:
(a) improvement of about 15 kilometers of primary and secondary roads;
(b) provision of primary utility mains, including 9 km of water
mains; 9 km of trunk sewers; 6 km of stormwater channels and two
holding reservoirs of about 25,000 m3 each; 6 km of medium
voltage cables and 6 substations;
(c) upgrading of Hofret El Maach and Khaled Ibn El Oualid by (i)
legalization of occupancy status, (ii) extension and surfacing of
existing roads, (iii) upgrading and connecting households to the
water, sewerage and electrical networks, and (iv) provision of
two primary schools, a kindergarten, a health center and two
sportsgrounds.
4.            Sites and Services and Housing Credit.  This component will be
carried out on a 15 hectares piece of land adjacent to Khaled Ibn El Oualid.
Of the total area, 9 hectares are already government owned. The procedures
for expropriation of the remaining 6 hectares has begun and is not expected to
delay implementation. The site will be divided into about 1,100 serviced
plots, of which 450, 350, and 300 will have areas of 75 m2, 100 m2 and 120 m2
respectively. Two hundred and twenty (220) of these plots will be used for the
rehousing of displaced families from Hofret El Maach and Khaled Ibn El Oualid,
while the rest will be allocated to new families.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
Hafsia in the Medina of Tunis
5.       Location and Background.  The Medina of Tunis is the oldest area in
the city. It is visibly separated from the rest of Tunis by the remains of an
old city wall and by its hierarchy of roads and pedestrian paths. In 1975,
the more affluent inhabitants of the Medina started moving out of their
crowded, unhealthy surroundings into the more spacious residential
developments of Tunis. They were replaced by poor immigrants from the rural
areas, coming to the capital in search of work.
6.       Since 1954, the lower part of the Central Medina, with a total area
of about 30 hectares, has been designated as a historical zone for
preservation and renovation. Hafsia, with an overall area of 13.5 hectares
forms part of this lower section of the Medina. It is divided into three main
sections: Sidi Younes to the west, with an area of 5.4 hectares, Sidi El
Baiane to the east, with an area of 2.6 hectares and a large central portion
of 5.5 hectares of mostly vacant land.
7.       Existing Conditions.  Hafsia is characterized by overcrowding and by
the deterioration of its buildings and infrastructure. It has a a population
of 4,100 inhabitants, and a density of about 360 persons per hectare. Of the
existing households, about 70% are connected to the water supply system,
almost all are connected to the power supply network (about 93% in Sidi Younes
and 97% in Sidi Baiane), and all are connected to an old sewerage network
which is rapidly deteriorating and frequently overflows. Hafsia moreover
contains about 2.2 hectares of empty land suitable for development. A first
attempt by the Municipality of Tunis to build some apartment and commercial
buildings in the central portion of Hafsia in the mid 1970s has been
reasonably successful. The decaying conditions of the area led to the choice
of Hafsia as the priority area for.revitalization in the Medina.
8.       Upgrading.  The upgrading of Hafsia would include (i) regularization
of occupancy status, (ii) improvement of pedestrian roads,
(iii) improvement, repair and extension of the water supply, electrical,
telecommunications and town gas networks, (iv) reconstruction of the sewerage
network and connection to the new trunk sewers being installed by ONAS in the
city center, (v) upgrading of about 24,000 m2 of existing buildings in Sidi
Baiane and 23,000 m2 in Sidi Younes, and (vi) construction of 90 units in Sidi
Baiane and 45 units in Sidi Younes averaging 88m2 on infill plots.
9.       New Construction of the Central Vacant Land.  This consists of a
pilot scheme which would act as a model for the revitalization of the rest of
the Medina. In view of the commercial value of land in the Medina, serviced
plots would be sold to private developers for construction of the program set
out below. Simultaneously, the municipality would construct and the Bank
would finance Part A of Phase I of the new construction program. Part B of
Phase I and Phase II would be constructed on serviced land sold to developers.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
Profit from the sales would be channeled to a special account to finance
upgrading. The construction in Hafsia would consist of:
(a) Phase I
Part A
(i)   about 9,000 m2 of new housing;
(ii)   about 300 m2 of new floors on top of existing shops;
(iii)   about 700 m2 of new shops;
(iv)   about 330 m2 for a second hand clothing market;
Part B
(i)   two hotels of 1,560 m2 and 730 m2 respectively;
(ii)   a bath house (hammam) with an area of 325 m2;
(iii)  an office building with about 4,000 m2 of built-up area;
(iv)   a child care center of about 2,000 m2;
(v)    a mosque;
(b) Phase II
(i)   about 1,000 m2 of new housing;
(ii)   160 m2 of new floors above shops;
(iii)   three apartment buildings with an overall area of about
2,630 m2;
(iv)   a third hotel of 735 m2;
(v)   shops with an area of about 170 m2.
Kram Ouest in La Goulette
10.     Location and Background.  Kram Ouest is located in the Municipality of
La Goulette which itself forms part of Greater Tunis. Parts of Kram Ouest
have been occupied by immigrants seeking jobs in the port of La Goulette.
This has led to the creation of slum areas, poorest among which are the four
enclaves of Sidi Amor, Boujnah, M'tirat and Trabelsia-Jeraba. With a total
area of 12.4 hectares, these enclaves house 756 households with no sewerage or
stormwater drainage and are substantially lacking in water supply.
11.     Upgrading.  Upgrading would include (i) legalization of tenure and
occupancy in the four enclaves, reparcellation of larger plots by the
municipality and creation of 320 new infill plots ranging in size from 60m2 to



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
120m2 with on-plot construction ranging between 12m2 and 40m2. About 100
households affected by demolition would be recompensated and relocated to
these new infill plots. The rest of the plots will be sold to new applicants;
(ii) improvement of the infrastructure (roads, water, sewerage, stormwater and
electricity); (iii) construction of a primary school and a kindergarten.
Sidi Chrichi in Le Kef
12.     Location and Background.  Sidi Chrichi is a squatter development near
the center of the provincial capital of Le Kef with insufficient roadway
connection to the center of the city. The settlement is extending southward
and encroaching on fertile agricultural land. A proposed primary road
crossing the edge of the site is planned and would facilitate access to the
site and stop the encroachment on agricultural land.
13.     Existing Conditions.  The settlement occupies an area of 18 hectares
and has a population of about 3,400 inhabitants, living in 550 dwellings.
Water is supplied through three standpipes and only about 60% of the dwellings
are connected to electricity. ONAS is presently installing a new sewerage
network, financed in part by the EEC countries. Stormwater, paved roads and
community facilities are non-existent.
14.     Upgrading.  Upgrading would include (i) legalization of occupancy
status and provision of security of tenure; (ii) construction of 4 km of
primary and secondary roads; (iii) installation of a 300 mm water supply main,
about 600 m long, linking Sidi Chrichi to the nearest water reservoir in Le
Kef; (iv) construction of a substation and the necessary medium-voltage
transmission lines to improve the power supply and provide street lighting;
(v) connection of houses to the networks; (vi) construction of a primary
school, a kindergarten and a dispensary, and (vii) provision of 60 infill
plots for the rehousing of households affected by demolition.
15.      Sites and Services and Housing Credit.  All available free land within
the project boundary (4 ha) will be obtained by the Municipality and divided
into suitable serviced plots. The total number of plots thus obtained would
be about 230 for housing and 20 plots of about 200m2 each for commercial
purposes.
Zghadia in Jendouba
16.     Location and Background.  Zghadia is located to the northeast of the
city. The existing settlement of 26 hectares with its population of 4,290
persons is a natural extension of the city of Jendouba.
17.     Existing Conditions.  The settlement is characterized by poor
stormwater drainage and badly aligned housing, in poor physical condition.
About 70% of the houses are served with water, 50% are connected to sewerage
and 80% have electricity. Most of the primary and secondary roads still need
grading, compaction and surfacing.



- 33 -                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
18.     Upgrading.  The upgrading component would include (i) regularization
of occupancy status and provision of security of tenure; (ii) improvement and
surfacing of 3.5 km of primary and secondary roads; (iii) provision of utility
services to houses in the area; including the installation of a sewage lift
station for the low-lying extremities of the site; (iv) provision of a
stormwater drainage network; (v) provision of a primary school, a community
center and a sportsground; and (vi) provision of 50 infill plots to rehouse
families displaced by demolition.
19.     Sites and Services and Housing Credit.  A total of 250 serviced plots
would be created with plot sizes ranging between 80m2 and 120m2.
Technical Assistance Component
20.     The technical assistance program would include:
(a) 6 man-years of foreign expertise in engineering, finance and urban
planning;
(b) preinvestment studies for the preparation of a fourth urban
project, including the preparation of the architectural/
engineering documents and the establishment of an urban data bank;
(c) 11 man-years of training programs for urban and municipal matters
including urban transport; and
(d) Studies and technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and
Communications for the preparaion of a second urban transport
project and developing the sectoral policies related to urban
transportation.
The foreign experts would provide services not currently available in Tunisia
and train local counterparts. The local experts are being included in the
project to overcome the difficulty often encountered in Tunisia of finding
enough qualified employees to assign to the municipalities in the towns of the
interior; their role would be to strengthen the municipalities' ability to
implement and account for upgrading projects. The training program which
includes training in municipal engineering, urban planning, the Bank's
procurement and disbursement procedures and municipal financing and accounts
is a continuation of the programs started under the Second Project to
strengthen the municipalities and will enhance the capability of the
municipalities to implement the project. The component also includes
preinvestment studies for the establishment of an urban data bank and funds
for architectural/engineering fees for the preparation of a fourth urban
project.



Tunisia;   Third Urban Development Project
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Percent    Percent        Percent
TD (Million)                          USS (Million)              Foreign        Base         Total
Component                         Local       Foreign      Total       Local        Foreign      Total       Exchange       Cost          Cost
A - ETTADUWMEN - DOUAR HIGHER                 4.06        3.33         7.39        8.11        6.66         14.77         45.1        34.4          24.7
1. Off-site Infrastructuire            1.26        1.27         2.53       2.51         2.54          5.05
2. Upgrading                           0.99        0.81         1.80       1.98         1.62          3.60
3. Sites and Services                 0.70         0.34         1.04       1.40         0.68          2.08
4. Housing Credit                      0.83        0.69         1.52        1.66        1.38          3.04
5. Community Facilities               0.28         0.22         0.50       0.56         0.44          1.00
B - tAFSIA (MEDINA)                          4.14         2.02         6.16       8.28         4.04         12.32         32.8        28.7          20.6
1. Off-site infraetructure            0.07         0.05         0.12       0.14         0. 10         0.24
2. tigrading                           0.48        0.24         0.72       0.96         0.48          1.44
3. UIpgrading of Bujildings            0.55        0.45         1.00       1.10         0.90          2.00
4. Construction Loans                  0.82        0.67         1.49        1.64        1.34          2.98
5. New Construction                    2.22        0.61         2.82       4.44         1.21          5.66
C - KRAM OUEST                                1.17        0.76         1.93       2.34         1.52          3.86         39.4         9.0           6.5
1. Off-site Infrastructure            0.17         0.14         0.31       0.34         0.28          0.62
2. Upgrading                           0.64        0.34         0.98        1.28        0.68          1.96
3. Housinz Credit                      0.24        0.19         0.43       o.48         0.38          0.86
4. Community Facilities                0.12        0.09         0.21       0.24         0.58          0.42                                                                              1
D - CHRICIII (LF Kl F)                        0.80        0.61         1.41        1.60        1.22          2.82        43.3          6.6           4.7
1. Off-eite Infrastriucture           0.08         0.06         0.14       0.16         0.t2          0.28 J8
2.. Upgrading                          0.34        0.26         0.60       0.68         0.52          1.20
3. Sites and Serviceo                  0.17        0.10         0.27       0.34         0.20          0.54
4. Housing Credit                      0.17        0.15         0.32       0.34         0.30          0.64
5. Community Facilities                0.04        0.04         0.08       0.08         0.08          0.16
E - ZCHADIA (JENDOUBA)                        0.81        0.59         1.40        1.62        1.18          2.80         42.1         6.6           4.7
1. Upgrading                          0.38         0.27         0.65       0.76         0.54          1.32
2. Sites and Services                  0.18        0.10         0.28       0.36         0.20          0.56
3. iousing Credit                      0.17        0.15         0.32       0.34         0.30          0.64
4. Conmunity Facilities                0.08        0.07         0.15       0.16         0.14          0.30
F - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES    0.34               1.54        1.88        0.69        3.08          3.77         82.0         8.8           6.3
C - PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                    1.28         -           1.28        2.56         -            2.56           -          5.9           4.4
TOTAL BASE COST              12.60        8.85        21.45      25.20        17.70         42.90        41.2        100.0          71.9                                 (b t1
I - CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical Contingency               1.42         0.85         2.27       2.84         1.70          4.54                                    7.6
2. Price Contingency                   3.53        2.60         6.13       7.06         5.20         12.26                                   20.5
3. Total Contingencies                4.95         3.45         8.40       9.90         6.90         16.80                                   28.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST           17.55       12.30        29.85      35.10        24.60         59.70                                  100.0
Front-End Fee                                 -           0.20                                 0.40
TOTAL BANK FINANCING                     12.50         -          -           25.00



T.nisia:  Third Ocbao D-vlop-et ProJ..t
COST ESTIMATES BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITUR.E
EttoadhaseeDS..ar                                                                                                                                 j. diit.in                      TTL                     OAS(S
Hicher                  Bafaja                  KESa Oneat            Sidi Cbrichi            zg*i              T.chnical A..i.tance  ProjetA~narto                           OASTrL    0$.
Local Foreig, Tota-l Lo'cl Foreign -Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total   Loc.l Foceigo Total                            Local Foreign TOtW         Local Foreign Total
-    -     -- - - - - -- - - - - -- -      - -- TO    (,.illion)-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      - - -  - - -   - - - -  - -    ---     - - - - - - -
A. Land AcgoiaitiOe               0.28   -       0.28   0.57   -        0.57   0.24   -         0.24   0.06   -        0.06   0.10   -         0.10     -       -       -        -       -       -           1.25     -        1.25     2.50     -        2.50
B. Cm~il WoEka                    2.54   2.30  4.34   3.57   2.02  5.59   0.69   0.57  1.26   0.45   0.36  0.81   0.42   0.34  0.76                     -       -       -        -       -       -           7.67     5.59  13.26    15.33   1 1.1_8  26.51
l. Oftfite lnfrasmrct-re         1.26   1.27  2.53   0.07   0.05  0.12   0.1-7   0.14  0.31   60.08   0.06  0.14   -                   -      -         -       -       -       -        -       -           1.58     1.52   3. 10   3T. 15      3.04   6.19
2. Upgrading                      1.00   0.81  1.81   0.30   0.24  0.54   0.40   0.34  0.74   0.33   0.26  0.59   0.34   0.27  0.61                     -               -       -        -       -           2.37     1.92   4.29    4.74        3.84   8.58
3. Ne,. Construction in
in HEaf                     -       -              1.83   0.61  2.44 -                        -      -        -       -      -        -       -           -               -        -       -           1.83      0.61  2.44       3.66     1.22   4.88
4. mufll Plota aod Building
Uipgrading in Haf.is        -       -              1.37   1.12  2.49 -            -       -       -       -       -      -       -           -        -           -        -       -       -           1.37     1.12   2.49       2.74     2.24   6.98
5. Connity Faeiliti..            0.28   0.22  0.50   -           -      -       0.12   0.09  0.21   0.04   0.04  0.08   0.08   0.07  0.15                   -           -       -           -               0.52      0.42   0.94      1.04      0.84   1.88
C. Sitea and Service. and
Hoocing Credit Schem          1.4 10322    -                  -      -       0.24   0.19  0.43   0.29   0.25  0.54   0.29   0.25  0.54    -                          -           -       -               2.06      1.72   3.78    4.12        3.44   7,56
1. Site D-eelop.ent              0.41   0.34  0.75   -           -      -       -       -      -        0.12   0.10  0.22   0.12   0.10  0.22              -            -       -           -               0.65      0.514   1.19     1.50      1.08   2.38
2. Hoocing Credit                0.83   0.69  1.52   -           -      -       0.24   0.19  0.43   0.17   0.15  0.32   Q.17   0.15  0.32                  -            -       -           -               1.41      1.18   2.59      2.82   -2.36   5.18
0.34    1.54   1.88   -          -       -           0.34     1.54   1.88       0.69     3.08   3.77
-  -  -  -  -  -   -       -               -       -      -       -       - ~     ~     -        -       -       1.28   -         1.28       1.28    -         1.28     2.56      -       2.56   '
BASE COST                     4.06   3.33  7.39   4.14   2.02  6.16   1.17   0.76  1.93   0.80   0.61  1.41   0.81   0.59  1.0                      0.34   1.54    1.88   1.28    -          1.28       l2e60     8.85  21.43    25.20    17 70  42.90



Tunisia: Third Urban Development Project
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
Off-Site
Infra-                            Site            Housing           Hafsia          Technical        Project
Structure        Upgrading       Preparation        Credit        Revitalization    Aeeistance    Administretion  Total   Project    Cost
Local  Goreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local Foreign  La                        al      e     Lcl  Foreign  Local   Foreign   Total
Contingencies (as X of
Project Coot)
Physical                 15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0         -        -      15.0   15.0        -        -       -        -
Price Escalation         17.6    21.7    26.1    27.6    23.8    29.6    35.5    38.0    33.1   39.0           29.2    30.2    26.0    33.3
Project Cost (without
contingencies);
Millions US$             3.01    2.94    5.74    4.20    2.10    1.08    2.82    2.36          8.28  4.04      0.69    3.08    2.56       -
Millions T.D.            1.51    1.47    2.87    2.10'   1.05    0.54    1.41    1.18          4.14  2.02      0.34    1.54    1.28       -    25.20       17.70    42.90
12.60       8.85    21.45
x Foreign Exchange                   b9.3              42.3             34.0             45.0       -    3.28        -      81.7      -        _
41.3
Contingencies (Amounts)
Physical
Millions US$            0.42    0.32    0.86    0.62    0.32    0.16          -        -       1.24  0.60        -        -       -        -
Millions T.D.           0.21    0.16    0.43    0.31    0.16    0.08          -        -       0.62  0.30        -        -       -        -    2.84        1.70     4.54
Price Escalation                                                                                                                                  1.42        0.85      2.27
Millions US$            0.53    0.64    1.50    1.18    0.50    0.32    1.00    0.90           2.72  1.58      0.14    0.58    0.67        -
Millions T.D.           0.26    0.32    0.75    0.59    0.25    0.16    0.50    0.45           1.36  0.79      0.07    0.29    0.34        -   7.06         5.20    12.26
3.53       2.60      6.13
Subtotal
Millions USt            0.95    0.96    2.36    1.80    0.82    0.48    1.00    0.90           3.96  2.18      0.14    0.58    0.67        -
Millions T.D.           0.47    0.48    1.18    0.90    0.41    0.24    0.50    0.45           1.98  1.09      0.07    0.29    0.34        -   9.90         6.90    16.80
4.95       3.45      8.40
x Foreign Exchange                   44.7              43.3             36.9             44.4            34.2               80.6
4.10
Total Project Cost (with
contingencies)
Millions US$             3.96    3.90    8.10    6.00    2.92    1.56    3.82    3.26    12.24  6.22           0.83    3.66    3.23        -
Millions T.D.            1.98    1.95    4.05    3.00    1.46    0.78    1.91    1.63          6.12  3.11      0.41    1.83    1.62        -    35.10    24.60    59.70
17.55    12.30    29.85
% Foreign Exchange                   49.6              42.6             34.8             46.0            36.7               81.5               -
41.2
Total Contingencies. As T of total project cost, 28.1; as 2 of project cost without contingencies, 39.2.



Tunisia: Third Urban Development Project
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES FOR ETTADHAMEN-DOUAR HICHER
Percent
TD (000)                           US$ (000)               Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total      Local       Foreign      Total      Exchange
A - OFFSITE INFRASTRUCTURE          1,260         1,270    2,530        12          2,540       5,050        50.0
1. Roads                        613         740      1,353      1,216        1,480       2,696
2. Sewerage                     212         174         386       424          348         772
3. Stormwater Drainage          387         316         703       774          632        1406
4. Electricity                   48          40          88         96          80         176
B - UPGRADING OF HOFRET MAACH         567         464       1,031      1.134          928       2,062       45.0
1. Roads                        157         129         286       314          258         572
2. Water Supply                  62          51         113       124          102         226
3. Sewerage                      98          79         177       196          158         354
4. Stormwater Drainage           25          21          46         50          42          92
5. Electricity                   80          66         146       160          132         292
6. Connections                  145         118         263       290          236         526
C - UPGRADING OF KHALED IBN WALID   274           225         499        548          450         998       45.0
1. Roada                         68          55         123       136          110         246
2. Water Supply                  43          36          79        86           72         158
3. Sewerage                      60          49         109       120           98         218
4. Stormwater Drainage           11          10          21         22          20          42
5. Electricity                   30          24          54        60           48         108
6. Connections                   62          51         113       124          102         226
D - SITES AND SERVICES                698         337       1J03       1,396          674       2,070        32.6
1. Land Acquisition             285           -         285       570            -         570
2. Roads                        106          86         192       212          172         384
3. Water Supply                  49          41          90        98           82         180
4. Sewerage                      74          60         134        148          120        268
5. Stormwater Drainage           18          14          32        36           28          64
6. Electricity                   26          22         48         52           44          96
7. Connections                  140         114         254       280          228         508
E - HOUSING CREDIT                    835         683       1,518      1,670        1,366       3,036        45.0
F - COMMUNITY FACILITIES              275         225         500        550          450       1,000       45.0
G - EXTENSIONS TO HOUSING              150        123         273        300          246         546        45.0
TOTAL BASE COST          4,059       3,327       7,386      8,108        6,654      14,762        45.1
H - CONTINGENCIES                   1,523       1,167       2,690      3,046        2.334       5,380
1. Physical Contingency         467         347         814       934          694       1,628
2. Price Contingency            056         820       1,876     2,112        1,640       3,752
TOTAL COST                 5,582      4,494      10,076    11,154         8,988      20,142        44.6



Tunisia:   Third Urban Development Project
SLt4MARY (MST ESTIMATES FOR HAFSIA
Percent    Percent
TD (000)                            us$ (000)                Foreign        Base
Local      Foreign      Total      Local        Foreign      Total      Exchange       Cost
A - OFFSITE INFRASTRUCTURE                   68          56         124        136           112         248         45.2         2.0
1. Earthworks                          2           2           4          4             4
2. Roads                              15          12          27         30            24          54
3. Water Supply                        1           -           1           2            -           2
4. Sewerage and Drainage               4           3           7           8            6          14
5. Electricity                        14          11          25         28            22          50
6. Telephones                         30          26          56         60            52         112
7. Gas                                 2           2           4          4             4           8
B - UPGRADING'                             295          241         536        590           482       1,072         45.0         8.7
1. Earthworks                        37           30          67         74            60         134
2. Roads                              70          57         127        140           114         254
3. Water Supply                       41          33          74         82            66         148
4. Sewerage/Drainage                  82          68         150         164          136         300
5. Electricity                        13          11          24         26            22          48
6. Street Lighting                    17          14          31         34            28          62                                      1
7. Gas                               35           28          63         70            56         126
C - NEW CONSTRUCTION                     2,215          608         42 4430               1,216        5,646         21.5        46.0
1. Land Acquisition                 393            -         393          78            -         786
2. Phase I Superstructure           902          608       1,510      2,264           756       3,020
3. Phrase 11 Superstructure         920            -         920      1,380           460       1,840
D   UPGRADING OF SIDI BAIANF               840          588       1,428      1,680         1,176       2,856         41.2        23.2
1. Land Acquisition                  62            -          62        124             -         124
2. Indemnification                    53           -          53        106             -         106
3. Demolitions                         6           -           6          12            -          12
4. New Housing                       377         308         685        754           616       1,370
5. Addition of Floors                 57          47         104        114            94         208
6. Upgrading Existing Buildings  285             233         518        570           466       1,036
E - UPGRADING OF SIDI YOUNES               707          ,29          3       1,414         1,058       2,472         42.8        20.1
1. Land Acquisition                                -          60        120             -         120
2. New llousing                     381          312         693        762           624       1,386                                     Pi
3. Upgrading Existing Buildings  266             217         '83        532           434         966
TOTAL BASE COST        4,125       2.022                   8,20          4,044      12,294         32.9       100.0
F - CONTINGENCIES                        1,991        1,6         3,007      3,982         2,032       6,014
1  Physical Contingency             619          304         923      1,238           608       1,846
2. Price Contingency              1,372          712       2,084      2,744         1,424       4,168
TOTAL COST                                                                67 6038  9,154    12X232  ,   18,308



Tunisia:   Third Urban Development Project
StIMMARY COST ESTIMATES FOR KRAM OUEST
Percent   Percent
Sidi                      Trabelsia            TD (000)                     US$ (000)          Foreign       Base
knor  Bouinah  M'Tirat    Jraba    Local   Foreign   Total  Local    Foreign    Total  Exchange    Cost
A - OFFSITE INFRASTRUCTURE                                                      167       136       303    334         272        606      44.9       15.8
1. Bir Lahlou Road                                                          18        15       33      36         30         66
2. Roads                             8        4         9         23        24       20        44      48         40         88
3. Sewerage                          -        -         6          7         7         6        13     14         12         26
4. Stormwater Drainage              48       10         5        116        99       SO        179    198        160        358
5. Electricity                      19       12         1          2        19       15        34      38         30         68
B - UPGRADING                                                                   643       330       973  1,286         660      1,946      33.9       50.6
1. Land Acquisition                                                       138         -       138    276           -        276
2. Demolitions                                                             103         -      103    206           -        206
3. Roads                            31       13        15         79        76       62       138    152         124        276
4. Water SuLrply                    11        8         5          9        18        15       33      36         30         66
5. Sewerage                         32       15        14        40         56       45       101    112          90        202
6. Stornwater Drainage               -        -         1         11         7         5        12     14         10         24
7. Electricity                      17        9         5         22        29        24       53      58         48        106
8. Connections                      48       22        11         62        78       65       143    156         130        286
9. Extensions to llousing                                                  138       114      252    276         228        504
C - HOUSING CRFDIT                                                              240       194       434    480         388        868      44.7       22.6
D - CONSJNITY FtACILITIES                                                       1.17       95       212    234         190        424      44.8       11.0
TOTAL BASE COST                                                     1,167       755    1,922  2,334        1,510      3,844      39.3      100.0
: - CONTINGENCIES                                                               435       299       734    870         598      1 468
1. Physical Contingency                                                                      17 TTh  4
2. Price Contingency                                                       293      211       504    586         422      1,008                        H
TOTAL COST                                                          1,602    1,054    2.656  3,204         2,108      5,312 ** 
30  M



Tunisia:   Third Urban Development Project
SLU4MARY COST ESTIMATES FOR SlDt CHRICHI
Percent    Percent
TD (000)                             US$ (000)               Foreign        Base
Local      Forein       Total      Local        Foreign      Total      ExchanR        Cost
A - OFFSITE INFRASTRUCTURE                   77          63         140        154           126         280         45.0        10.0
1. Roads                             63           71         114        126           102         228
2. Water Supply                       14          12          26          28           24          52
B - UPGRADING                              337          264         601        674           528       1,202         43.9       43.0
1. Land Acquisition                 -n             -         75          -30            -          30
2. Roads                             49           40          89         98            80         178
3. Water Supply                       35          30          65          70           60         130
4. Storumwater Drainage               17          14          31          34           28          62
5. Electricity                        35          28          63          70           56         126
6. Street Lighting                   20           17          37         40            34          74
7. Connections                        36          30          66          72           60         132
8. Rehousing                         40           32          72         80            64         144
9. Extensions to Housing              90          73         163        180           146         326
C - SITES AND SERVICES                      162          98         260        324           196         520         37.7        18.6            1
1. Land Acquisition                   40           -          40          80            -          80                                    -p
2. Roads                             47           38          85         94            76         170                                     0
3. Water Supply                       12          10          22          24           20          44
4. Sewerage                           15          12          27          30           24          54
5. Stormwater Drainage                 2           1           3           4            2           6
6. Electricity and Lighting           16          13          29         32            26          58
7. Connections                        30          24          54         60            48         108
D - HOUSING CREDIT                          177         145         322        354           290         644          45.0       23.0
E - COMMUNITY FACILITIES                     41          34          75         82            68         150          45.3        5.4
TOTAL BASE COST                  794          604       1,398      1,58L         2,796                     43.2       100.0
F - CONTINGENCIES                          296          235         531        592           470       1,062
1. Physical Contingency              93           70         163        186           140         326
2. Price Contingency                203          165         368        406           330         736
TOTAL COST                                   839   1, 929 2 ,1 8



Tunisia:   Third Urban Developraent Project
SLffMARY COST ESTIMATES FOR ZGRADIA
Percent    Percent
TD (000)                            US$ (000)               Foreign        Base
Local      Foreign      Total      Local       Foreign      Total      Exchange       Cost
A - ONSITE INFRASTRUCTURE                 381         284         665        762          568        1,330        42.7        47.1
1. Land Acquisition                  24           -          24         48            -48
2. Demolitions                       13           -          13         26             -           26
3. Roads                             75          62         137        150           124          274
4. Water Supply                      30          25          55         60            50          110
5. Sewerage                          36          30          66         72           60           132
6. Stormwater Drainage               58          48         106        116            96          212
7. Street Lighting                    8           7          15         16            14           30
8. Connections                       25          20          45         50            40           90
9. Extensions to Houses              80          65         145        160           130          290
10. Rehousing                         32          27          59         64            54          118
B - SITES AND SERVICES, SECTION I           62          28          90        124           56           180        31.1        6.4
1. Land Acquisition                  27           -          T7        --              _
2. Roads                              9           7          16         18            14           32
3. Water Supply                       3           3           6           6            6           12
4. Sewerage and Drainage             11           9          20         22            18           40
5. Electricity and Lighting           4           2           6          8             4           12
6. Connections                        8           7          15         16            14           30
C - SITES AND SERVICES, SECTION II         118          68         186        236          136          372         36.6       13.2
1. Land Acquisition                  35           -         73          70             -          70
2. Roads                              9           7          16         18            14           32
3. Water Supply                       9           7          16         18            14           32
4. Sewerage                          14          12          26         28            24           52
5. Stormwater Drainage               19          16          35         38           32            70
6. Electricity and Lighting          11           9          20         22            18           40
7. Connections                       21          17          38         42           34            76
D - HOUSING CREDIT                         174         146         320        348          292           640        45.6       22.7
E - COMMUNITY FACILITIES                    82          68         150        164           136          300        45.3       10.6
TOTAL BASE COSr                  817         594       1,411      1,634        1,188        2,822         42.1      100.0      0 X
F. - CONTINGENCIES                         301         227         528        602          454        1 056                              °° ro
1. Physical Contingency             73          --n         TO         17             2
2. Price Contingency                206         163         369        412           326          738
TOTAL COST                     1,118         8         1,939    23236          1,642        3,878



UNIT COSTS Of UPGRADING
(locluding Contingencies)
Estimated
Cost          Area in ha.   Cost Per ha.  No. of Households  Cost Per H.H. No, of Persons   Cost Per Person
(U.S.,)         _                                               _        t         _
ETTADR.AIEN-DOUAR HICHER
Total Upgrading                           3 254 000           48.0           67,800           1,830             1 780             11,150              290
-Roads                                I,TT8,00o                         24,300                                720                                 IOS
-water Supply                           548,000                         11,400                                270                                  50
-Sewerage                               772,000                         16,100                                330                                  70
-Drainage                               190,000                          4,000                                210                                  15
-Electrification                        576,000                         12,000                                210                                  50
RHAFSItA
Total Upgrading                           1,274,000           13.5          94 400              730             1 740             4,088               315
-Roads                                  526,000                          9,000                               1720                                 H
-Water Supply                            20,000                         14,800                                270                                  50
-Sewerage                              240,000                          17,800                                330                                  60
-Drainage                               156,000                         1i, 5s                                210                                  40
-Electrification                        152,000                         11,300                                210                                  35
KRAM WEST
Total Upgrading                             948,000           12.4           76,400             756             1,250             4,410               220
-Roads                                  388,000                         31,300                                510                                  90
-Water Supply                            92,000                          7,400                                120                                  20
-Sewerage                              278,000                          22,400                                370                                  65
-Drainage                                34,000                          2,700                                 40                                  10
-Electrification                        156,000                         12,600                                210                                  35
SIDI CHRICHI
Total llpgrading                            772,000            18.0         42,900              664             1,160              3,420              225
-Roads                                  242,000                         13,400                                360                                  70
-',Water Supply                         170,000                          9,400                                260                                  50
-Sewerage                                86,000                          4,800                                130                                  25
-Drainage                               172,000                          9,600                                260                                  50
-Electrification                        102,000                          5,700                                150                                  30
ZCHADI A
Total llpgrading                          1,006,000            26.0          3,700              674             1,490              4,290              235
-Roads                                  366,000                         14,L00                                540
-Water Supply                          148,000                           5,700                                220                                  35
-Sewerage                               170,000                          6,500                                250                                  40               (D1
-Drainage                               284,000                         10,900                                420                                  65
-Electrification                         38,000                          1,500                                 60                                  10



- 43 -                        ANNEX 2
Table 10
Tunisia;   Third Urban Development Project
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Unit                 Total Cost
Man/  Cost/Year    Local    Foreign        Total    Percent
Year   $ (000)    $ (000)   $ (000)    $ (000)   Foreign
A. Foreign Experts
To ARRU
I Engineer               2       130          25         235         260         90
1 Urban/Financial        2       130          25         235         260         90
Analyst
To MOH
I Urban Planning and
Programming Spe-    2        130          25         235         260         90
cialist
B. Training Abroad
Municipal Engineering
and Planning              5.0     10           -          50          50        100
Municipal Engineering
and Finance              5.0      10           -          50          50        100
Bank's Procurements and
Disbursement Procedures 1.0       10           -          10          10        100
C. Preinvestment Funds
for preparation for Fourth
Urban Project
Engineering Fees for
Architectural/
Engineering Documents            650         130         520         650         80
Study for Establishment
of an Urban Data Bank             20          10          10          20         50
D. Assistance in Urban
Transport for the
Ministry of Transport
and Communications                           275       1,100       1,375         80
E. Other project related
Technical Assistance
expenses                                     202         638         840         76
BASE COST                                692       3,083      3,775          82
G. Contingencies                                 140        580         720         81
TOTAL COST                               832       3,663      4,495          81



- 44 -                           ANNEX 3
Page i of 3
Tunisia; Third Urban Development Project
SITES AND SERVICES/HOUSING CREDIT COMPONENT
BASIC CONDITIONS
1. Eligibility Criteria
Approximately 1,600 new lots would be developed under this line of
credit in 3 project sites. Selection would be according to following
priorities:
- families obliged to relocate because of demolition or
dedensification in the upgrading sites. These families would be
given the first available sites and would be required to pay the
downpayment only after receiving their demolition idemnity.
- Families living at the sites of which an upper limit of 20% would
be reserved for CNEL and FOPROLOS subscribers who have completed
their official savings plan. The remaining would be for families
with a monthly income between TD 50 and TD 110 in 1981 Dinars and
who own no house. The monthly income would be indexed to the
guaranteed minimum wage increases.
- social cases identified by the municipalities.
A selection committee chaired by the municipality is responsible for
identifying initial lists. There would be two selection procedures: CNEL and
FOPROLOS subscribers would be chosen according to dates of application and
enrollment in the two financial schemes; others would be chosen by the
selection committee with the assistance of AFH and CNEL. Families required to
move as a result of demolition or dedensification would be given priority in
moving into the new sites. An attempt would be made to sell developed sites
in a phased program to avoid tying up the entire site until completion of
works.
2. Description of Loans
Up to 80% of the total cost of sites developed by AFH with a maximum
of 40 m2 constructed. 10-15% could be advanced immediately by CNEL to the
borrowers in order to permit him to complete his downpayment to AFH (30-35% of
total cost).
3. Interest Rate
The on-lending interest rate for the project line of credit would be
7% per year.



ANNEX 3
- 45 -                       Page 2 of 3
4. Repayment
Fifteen (15) years from date of first drawdown. During the two first
years, or until the delivery of a serviced site, the borrower would only pay
interest. At the end of two years, he would begin repayment with in level
payments of interest and principal.
5. Guarantees
During land development, there would be a promise to sell, then a
first mortgage on the improved land released by AFH, and construction
insurance on the borrower's life, fire insurance on the building.
6. Provision for Risk
The risk of non payment for CNEL/FOPROLOS subscribers would be borne
by CNEL; for the remainder the risk would be borne by government except for 5%
which would be borne by CNEL.
7. Management Fee for CNEL
1% on disbursements and 2% on yearly amounts recovered.
8.   Sources of Financing
CNEL would manage for the Government US$10.8 million. Out of this
amount US$4.8 million would be from the proceeds of the Bank's loan.
Sites and Services
9.       The sites would be equipped with the infrastructure (water, sewerage,
electricity, public lighting, roads) as described in the project description.
Individual plots would vary from site to site, based on consultant studies, but
lots would range from 60 to 120 m2. Loans for construction would be equivalent
to the cost of constructing 12 to 40 m2 based on beneficiaries' ability to pay.
10. Roles of Agencies Concerned
ARRU: expropriates and transfer land to AFH at cost;
Municipalities: Preside over the beneficiary Selection Committee and
are responsible for relations with residents and maintenance of
infrastructure except for water, sewerage and electricity which would be
maintained by the utility companies.
AFH: contracts for civil works and site development, and supervises
execution. It also executes a promise to sell to beneficiaries
at the beginning of works;



- 46 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
CNEL: opens and maintains a line of credit for the beneficiary, for
80% of cost of developed site and housing loans; CNEL also
follows progress of housing construction by beneficiaries and
makes spot checks to enable it to disburse the line of credit
against progress of works.
11. Audit
CNEL would maintain separate accounts which would be audited by the
Controle General des Finances acceptable to the Bank.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
Tunisia: Third Urban Development Project
CPSCL: CONDITIONS OF SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
1. Name of the Account
Third Urban Development Project
2. Eligibility Criteria
CPSCL's standard criteria, that is municipal debt not to exceed 15%
of its operating budget.
3. Description of Loan
To be made available to municipalities for infrastructure and
community services projects. Specifically under the project, CPSCL would
finance infrastructure works including municipal stormwater drainage and
roads, street lighting, and electrical, water supply and sewerage networks and
community facilities including some income generating components.
4. Repayment
20 years from date of first drawdown.
5. Management Fee
CPSCL will lend its funds to municipalities at cost resulting in an
average rate of 6.85%, for 20 years, with 2 years of grace.
6. Sources of Financing
TD Million    US$ Million
Bank              45%           3.2             6.4
Government        55%           3.7              7.4
100%           6.9            13.8
Bank funds would be lent by Government to CPSCL at 11.43 per annum over 20
years including 3 years of grace.  The foreign exchange risk and the risk of
non payment would be borne by the Government. Government funds will be made
available for 20 years at an interest rate of 2% for non income generating
works and 4% for income generating components.



- 48 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
7.       Accounts
Project accounts will be set up in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in Tunisia.
8.       Audit
The accounts of CPSCL would be audited annually by BDET's
independent auditors who are acceptable to IBRD.
9.       Recovery
Through the Contribution des Riverains over 20 years at 7% per
annum.



TUNISIA - THIRD URBAN DEVEL'JPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CASH FLOW TABLE (TD 000)
YEAR                             1983      1984      1985      lc,86    19:7      1983      19S0'     1990      1991     1j92   1j983-90
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURES            238      1507      1254       774       209         0         0         0                         3982
IN-SITE EXPENDITURES IN
JENDOUBA                          58       350      531        306      283       235        105        0                          1868
LE KEF                            47       220  -   393       442       297       242        121         0                         1762
KRAM OUEST                        56       316      490       589        375      294       131         0                          2251
ETTADHAMEN                        85       629      1781      1708     1054       895       567       106                          6825
MEDINA OF TUNIS                  159      1342      1630     1463      1888      1690      1080       419                          9671
SUB-TOTAL . ..............        405      2857      4825     4508      3897      3356      2004       525                         22377
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION FEES         120       253       271       274       310       229       140        70                          1672
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                319       686       467       161       251       228       202         0                         2314
SUB-TOTAL.                         439       939       738       440       561       457       342        70                         3986
REPAYMENT TO
GOVERNMENT                         0         3        48       174      305       403       487       545       528       482      1965
IBRD                              39      303       621      1131      1061      1247      1175       909       604       354      6486
SUB-TOTAL.                         39       307       669      1305      1367      1649      1662      1454     1132       837      8451
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 1121      5609      7486      7027      6034      5463      4008      2049      1132      837    38796
SOURCES OF FUNDS
GOVERNMENT THROUGH
CPSCL                             10       571      1236      1005       435      215         44         0                         3518
CNEL                              52       200       480       496       505      519       314        41                          2608
BUDGET                           315      1293      1161      926       620       395       302        74                          5065
FNAH                               0         0       116       200      200       200        173        32                          920
SUB-TOTAL ... ...... ...        377     2064      2993      2628      1760      1329       832        147                        12131
IBRD THROUGH.
CPSCL                              9       480      1038       850      385        191        36         0                         2969
CNEL                              42       164       393       406       413      425       257         33                         2134
GOVERNMENT                       422      1387      1331      1127      1045      883       506        89                          6790
SUB-TOTAL ..............        473      2031     2762      2383       1844     1499       799        122                        11913
CNEL THROUGH:
FOPROLOS & CNEL LOANS              0         0        52       110       118       124        64         0                          469
SUB-TOTAL. ...  .......           0         0        52       110       118       124        64         0                          469
BENEFICIARIES:
DOWNPAYMENTS                      48       228       481       448       435      448       261         35                         2383
REPAYMENT TO:
CNEL/IBRD                        5        27       107      245       418       562       658       668       700       705      2710
CNEL/FOPROLOS                    0         0         5        14       25        35        41        41        41        41       160
UTILITY COMPANIES                0         0        33       100      173       234       263       233       166        93      1037
MUNICIPALITY (TAX)               0         0        15       72       123       168       194       182       159       118       754
CPSCL                            0         1        35      111        173      272       443       598       645       661      1634
LOCATION-VENTE                   0        20       62       120       189       261       303       311       311       311      1265
SUB-TOTAL....                    53       276       738      1109      1537      1982     2162      2087      2022      1929      9944
MUNICIPALITY OF TUNIS               159       716       257                                                                            1131
SALE OF PLOTS & BUILDINGS
IN MEDINA                           0       362      1001      431       237       219        114         0                         2364
FINANCING BY DEVELOPERS OF
PHASES I AND II                    0       112       234       250       614       512       505       312                  '      2540
TOTAL SOURCES                       903      4845      7781      6912      6111      5665      4476      2668      2022      1929    39360
CASH FLOW SURPLUS (DEFICIT)        -217      -764       295      -119        77       202       468       614       891      1092       564
CLUHLATIVE SURPLUS/DEFICIT         -217      -982      -687      -802      -725      -523       -55       564      1455      2547



TUNISIA - THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CNEL - NEW HOUSING CREDIT LINE (TD.-.000)
YEAR                            1983      1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992   1983-90
APPLIC:ATIONS OF FUNDS
LOANS TO BENEFICIARIES IN:
ETTADHAMEN                       54       239       519       433      459       486       324        74                         2588
KRAM OUEST                        0         0        75       159       175       181       92         0                          682
LE KEF                           28        73       139       171       153      142        83         0                          789
JENDOUBA                          12       52       140       140       131      1:36       72         0                           683
SIJB-TOTAL .......9......       94       364       873       903      919       944       571        74                         4742
REPAYMENT TO :
GOVERNMENT                        C)        3        13        37        61       87       113       128       130       130       441
IBRD                              2        24        68       137      152       215       279   -  318        323       323      1196
SIJB-TOTAL .......... .          2-26               81       174      214       302       :392      446       453       453      1637  0
MANAGEMENT FEE FOR CNEL               1        4        11        14        18        21        19       14        14        14       102
TOTAL APPLIC:ATIONS                  IF 8    394       965      1090      1150      1266      982       535       467       468      6480
SOURI_ES OF FUNDS
GOVERNMENT                           52      200       480       496       505      519       314        41                          2608
IBRD                                42       164       393       406       413      425       257        33                          2134
SIJB-TIDTAL ................      94       364       873       903      919       944       571        74                          4742
REPAYMENT BY BENEFICIARIE-;           5       27       107       245       418      562       658       688       700       705      2710
TOTAL SEOURCEES                     100      391       981      1148      1:337     1506     1229       762       700       705      7452
CASH FLOW SURPLUS (DEFICIT)           2       -4        15        58       187       240      247       227       232       237       972  
C:UMULATIVE SURPLUS/DEFICIT           2       -2        13        71       258       498      745       972      1205      1442      2559



CPSCL - SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF PROJECT FUNDS (TD.'000)
YEAR                           1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992   1983-90
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------------------------------------------
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS;
LOANS TO MUNICIPALITIES OF:
TUNIS                            0      402       634      384       322      168         0        0                         1909
ETTADHAMEN                       0      210       870      927       292      155        80        0                         2534
LA GOULETTE                      0       89       288      312       100       37         0        0                          825
LE KEF                           0       107      182-    170         54       28         0        0                          540
JENDOUBA                        19      243       302       64        53       19         0        0                          699
SUB-TOTAL ..............       19      1051     2274     1856       820      406        80        0                         6507
REPAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT             0         1       35       111      172       198      212      214       214      214       943
REPAYMENT TO IBRD                   0        56      174      339       360      418       447      453       453      453      2247
SUB-TOTAL .. ...........        0       56       210      449       532      617       659      667       667      667      3190
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 19      1108     2484     22.05     1352      1023      739      667       667      667      9697   -
SOURCES OF FUNDS
GOVERNMENT                         10       571     1236      1005      435      215        44        0                         3518
I BRD                               9      480      1038      850       385      191        36        0                         2989
SUB-TOTAL ................       19      1051     2274      1856      820      406        80        0                         6507
REPAYMENT BY MUNICIPALITIES
TUNIS                            O         0       41       105      143      176       193      193       193      193       851
ETTADHAMEN                       0         0       21       109      203      232       248      256       256      256      1069
LA GOULETTE                      0         0        9       38        70       S0        83       83        83       83       363
LE KEF                           O         0       11       29        46       52        55       55        55       55       247
JENDOUBA                         0        2        26       57        63       69        71       71        71       71       359
SUB-TOTAL ..............        0         2      108      338       525      608       649      658       658      658      2889 H
TOTAL SOURCES                      19      1053     2--:82   2194      1346      1015      729      658       658      658      9396
CASH FLOW SURPLUS (DEFICIT)         0)      -55     -102     -111        -6        -8       -9       -9        -9       -9      -301
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/DEFICIT          0       -55     -157     -268      -274     -28S      -292     -301      -311     -320



- 52-                                    ANNEX 6
52-
Table 1
Tunisia:  Third Urban   veioptant Project
CAISSE NATIONA(.E D'EPARGw--LOGME.lrNT (CNEL)
UNAUDITED BALANCE SHEET, 1977-1981 (TD 000)
h/
1977          1978      1979         1980          1981
AS SETS
Current Assets
Cash                                    6,017       1,759       4,920        7,523         9,755
Prefinancing of promotors              25,353      34,951      41,416       34,776        35,317
Loans maturing within the year            808         683         822         1,185         n.a.
Others (short-tern receivables)         2,812       2,033       7,279         3,855          n.a.
Mediun-term loans a/                   10,899      13,129      14,883       15,165         6,245
Long-term loans                         9,171      18,055      28,921       48,059        58,600
of which; saving loans b/                          (459)    (7,476)    (23,609)        (35,364)
immediate loans c/                    (6,390)    (8,263)       (8,299)      (7,392)
bridge loans d/                       (8,205)    (9,054)    (14,351)    (14,044)
SNIT e/                               (3,000)    (2,600)       (1,800)      (1,800)
less provision for risk                  50         150         350          570           820 i/
Net loans portfolio                     9,121      17,905      28,571       4774T         57,780  i
FOPROLOS loans                           -            605       4,015       12,034        28,531
Fixed assets(net)                         321         328         351           887          877
Total Assets                        55,331       71,393    102,257       122,914      150,348
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Short-term debts                        1,949       6,072       7,601        8,766           n.a.
Housing savings                        26,268      37,585      52,729       61,422        80,249
Other (short-term payables)             2,540       2,254       3,402        5,041           n.a
Long-term debts                        23,451      23,451      30,775       29,047           n.a.
of which:
CNEL ratio f/                      (7,100)    (7,100)   (10,201)         (8,154)       (8,154)
USAID loans g/                      (4,352)    (4,352)    (8,386)        (8,326)       (7,331)
United Arab Emirates              (10,899)   (10,899)   (10.899)    (10,899)           (6,245)
maturing within the year            (1,100)    (1,100)    (1,289)        (1,668)          r. a.
Poprolos scheme                          -            308       5,327        15, 436      26,319
Net worth                               1,123       1,723       2,423         3,202        3,452 i/
of which: Government grants            (420)       (420)       (420)        (420)         (420)
Reserves                    (703)    (1,303)    (2,003)        (2782)        (3,032)i/
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   55,331       71,393    102,257       122,914       150,3j8
a/  Loans made with the United Arab Emirates loan.
/   Loans made to contract savers, at 4.5CY p.a. over 10 years for 4-year saving contracts, or over
15 years for 5-year saving contracts.
c/  Loans granted in the late 1970s to applicants for whom the 4-year minimulm saving contract was
waived. The granting of new loans has been discontinued.
d/  Loans granted to CNEL beneficiaries before their saving contracts ntature.
e/  Societe Nationale Immobiliere de Tunisie, Tunisia largest housing developer.  Most of CNEL's
financing of SN1T is found under Prefinancing of PromoEers through 3-month loans which are
rolled over for up to 2 years.
f/  CNEI. is allowed to borrow from Tunisian com-nercial ban's at 5.5Z p.a. over 10 years the
equivalent of up to 5% of cossnercial banks' deposits.  At the end of 1981, CNEL had used less
than 15% of thiis facilitv.
Out of this total, CNEL is using directly only TD2.1 million to grant housing loans, the rest
being onlent to other institutions.
h/  1981 data are p-eliminary.
i/  Mission'sa estimate.



- 53 -                               ANNEX 6
Table 2
Tunisia: Third Urban Development Project
CAISSE NATIONALE D'EPARGNE-LOGEMLNT (CNEL)
UNAUDITED INCOME STATEMENTS 1977-1981 (TD 000)
1977       1978        1979        1980       1981 a!        1982 b/
INCOME
Interest on!
Prefinancing                       -         2,371       3,130      2,874        n.a.          3,053
Loans                            1,848         567       1,372      2,203        n.a.          3,636
Deposits                           474         148          61         192       n.a.            n.a.
Government subsidy c/              -            45          34          70       n.a.            450
2,322      3,131       4,597       5,338      6,475 d/          n.a.
Management fee on Foprolos Scheme   -                 2         19          92        n.a.            185
Exceptional profits                      19          62        187         235        n.a.             59
Other incomes                             9         44          71         111        n.a.            n.a.
Total Income                      2,351       3,239       4,874       5,776      6,950 d/       7,502
EXPENDITURES
Interest on:
Saving accounts                      756       1,223       1,772       2,008      2,309          3,073
Short term loans                   )              33         337         401     )                 313
Long term loans                     ) 512        451         563         628     )1,197            448
USAID loans                         )             52          90         164      )                 259
1,268      1,759       2,762       3,201      3,506          4,093
Administrative Expenses                 564        656         981       1,213       1,748          2,056
of which salaries                    (351)      (428)       (643)       (863)    (1,261)        (1,560)
Depreciation                             43         55          63          91         110            150
Other expenditures                       12         30          70         138         100 d/          31
Total Expenditures                 1,887      2,500       3,876      4,643       5,464 di       6,330
Profits                                 464        739         998       1,133       1,486 d/       1,172
of which allocated to:
provisions for risk                 50         100         200        220         250 d/        n.a.
reserves                           394         500         700         700        850 dl        n.a.
bonus to personnel                   20        139          98         213        386 d/        n.a.
a/  Preliminary data for 1981
D/  CNEL's projections for 1982
c/ The Government subsidy reduces the interest rate on CNEL loans from 5.5% to 4.5% p.a.
d/ Mission estimate.



_54                                     ANNEX 6
Table 3
Tunisia: Ihird Urban Development Project
CAISSE NATIONALE D'EPARGNE-LOGEKEr (CNrEL)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, 1977-1981
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as Z of average net worth                              50.1    51.9    41.2    40.3    44.7
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average total assets                          5.1      5.1      5.6      5.1     5.1
(same ratio, excluding Foprolos and USAID)                         5.6      5.4      6.1     5.8      6.2
Administrative expenses a/ as % of average total assets            1.3      1.3      1.2      1.3     1.6
Financial expenses  as %of average total assets                    2.8      2.8      3.2     2.8      2.6
Income from loans as % of average loan portfolio                  14.2      5.3      5.9     5.6      6.3
Cost of term debt as % of average term debt                        3.1      3.3      3.6     3.5      3.4 b/
Spread                                                            11.1      2.0      2.3     2.1      2.9
Financial Structure Indicators b/
Total debt c/ over year-end net worth                             46.0    38.9    37.6    31.0    32.8
Long-term debt c/ over year-end net worth                         18.0    11.7    10.1        7.1     5.2
Provision for rTsk as Z of long-term loans                         0.5      0.8      1.2     1.2      1.4
Interest coverage ratio                                            1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4
Debt service coverage ratio                                        1.07    1.1i    1.13    1.13    1.19
Housing savings over year-end net worth                           23.4    21.8    21.8    19.2    23.3
a/ Including bonus to personnel.
b/ Mission's estimate.
l  Excluding Foprolos funds and portion of USArD loans onlent to other institutions.



Tunisia; Third Urban Development Project
CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN DES COLLECTIVITIES LOCALES (CPSCL)
UNAUDITED la FINANCIAL DATA 1974-1981 (TD 000)
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980       1981
Balance Sheet: ASSETS
Cash /b                                                    3,221      2,046      1,031         645      2,633        154      1,998       1,917
Long term loans                                             -         1,955      4,370       6,913      8,893     12,692     15,368    21,791
Grants to municipalities                                        -                  _            24         54        364        904       1,516
3,i72      4,001      5,401      7,581     11,580    13,210       18,270    25,224
LIABILIlIES
NeL worth                                                  2,737      2,737      2,737       2,737      2,737      2,737      2,737       2,737
Government grant                                            -          -            900      1,800      4,300      4,300      7,300    11,800
Conmnunal Fund /c                                           -           598      1,219      2,359       3,840      5,358      7,142       9,242
Capitalized debts of municipalities /d                      -           278         278        278        278        278         278        278
Long term debts /e                                           483        387         331        278        223        166         145        126
Surplus (accumulated interest income)                      -           -             15         87        185        337        634       1,008
Other liabilities                                               1          1         20         42         17          34         34         33
Total Liabilities                                        3,221      4,001      5,401      7,581     11,580      13,210    18,270    25,224                  Un
Ln'
Annuial Data
Loan Commitments                                           3,245      3,162      4,670       2,523      4,898      2,862      4,214         n.a.
Disbursements:  Loans                                       n.a.      1,955      2,464       2,597      2,096      3,692      2,956       6,113 /f
Grants                                    -          -           -            24         30        310         540        621
Total                                     n.a.      1,955      2,464       2,621      2,126      4,002      3,496       6,725
Government Grant                                              -           -           800      1,000      2,500                  3,000      4,500
Communal Fund                                                 -            598        620      1,140      1,481      1,518       1,784      2,100
Interest Income                                               -          -             15         71         98        153         296        374
Performance Indicators
Return on average total assets (X)                          -          -              0.3        1.1        1.0         1.23       1.9        1.7
Income from loans as % of average loan portfolio            -          -              0.3        1.1        1.0         1.2        1.9        1.7
Long-term debt as % of equity |.                               17.6       12.8       10.9        9.0        7.0         5.0        4.0        3.1
Debt (principal) service coverage ratio                     -          -              1.1        2.8        4.4         6.3       26.4       36.0 /b
/a  The cash balance at the end of the year is, however, checked by BDET's auditors, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company and the                              1 x
Tunisian firm, Cabinet Finor.
/b  This represents CPSCL's account balance deposited at BDET.
/c  Fonds comznun des CollectivitAs Locales established by Law No. 75-36 of Hay 14, 1975.  6X of its annual resources are allocated to
CPSCL.
/d  All the debts accrued by municipalities vis-a-vis CPSCL as of January 1, 1975 were cancelled by the Government and capitalized in
CPSCL's balance sheet.
ie  Borrowings contracted in 1946, 1955, and 1959.
M Mission's estimate, of which D.429,000 were disbursed under the Second Urban Project.
/i Equity is defined at the stun of net worth, capitalized debts of municipalities, and surplus.
/ Mission's estimate.



- 56 -                       ANNEX 8
Page I of 2
Details of Agreement for Execution of the Revitalization of Hafsia
1. Parties to Agreement
- Municipality of Tunis
- ARRU
2. Objective
Definition of roles of various parties and conditions under which they
participate in project.
3. Tasks and Assignments
Municipality: delegates its responsibility for execution to ARRU but retains
the prerogative of subcontracting certain works directly. The Technical
Department of the municipality has the right to control progress of the
project.
ARRU would execute the works and be responsible for tendering and the
supervision of implementation of projects works on behalf of the municipality;
it will also program and control the project timetable.
ASM would prepare final architectural designs with the assistance of a
consulting firm. ASM would be repsonsible for (i) relations with the
community; and (ii) carrying out certain delicate upgrading work on force
account.
4. Developers
Sites would be sold to developers either at market prices or at auction.
Developers would be required to pay for site upon signature of contract.
Sale of such sites would be open to all accredited developers.
5. Marketing
In cooperation with the municipality, ARRU would be responsible for preparing
a sales program for the upgrading component. ASM would prepare a campaign to
advertise the program and its advantages to proprietors and renters. ARRU
would prepare model contracts for "Location-vente", sales agreements and
long-term rental agreements.



- 57 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
6. Financial Aspects
ARRU would keep separate accounts on the projects' finances.
ARRU would be remunerated at 5% of costs of land it develops.
Operation surpluses would be transferred to the Special Account.
Loan funds for the project would be borrowed from CPSCL by the
Municipalities.
7. Land
The municipality would make available land in its possession at its
cost of acquisition. ARRU would be responsible for acquisition of additional
land necessary for the project. The cost of such acquisition would be borne
by the municipality but would be recovered tbrough plot sales and upgrading.



- 58 -
ANNEX 9
Schedule I
Tunisia: Third Urbao Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1982          1983         1984          1985
I.   Foreign Experts
A. MOH
Urban Planning                                                     2 years
1 person
B.  ARRU
Engineer                                                                 2 years
I person
Urban Financial Expert                                                   2 years
1 person
II. Preinvestuent Studies
- preparation of fourth project                        ------------
III. Training a/
Municipal Engineering                                                  5 man/years
Municipal Finance and Cost Recovery                                 3 man/years
Bank Procurement and Disbursement                                   1 man/year
Procedure                                                    ------------------______________
Urban Transport                                                            2 man/years
IV. Assistance and Studies for the Ministry of
Transport                                                 -------------
a/ Timing for training would be in accordance with requirements during project implementation



TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982          1983          1984          1985          1986           1987          1988          19S'9          1 90
Description-
DDsciptin 11 234T 1 2 34  1 23 |4  1 2 34  1 2 34  1 2 3 4 1  2   4 1  23  4T 1 |2 |3 |4
A. FINAL DESIGN,TENDER DOCUMENTS,
CONTRACTS                          -----
B. OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE                                    - _    _   -  -  _  -  _           _
C. UPGRADING
1. Land Acquisition                           -  -       m      -  -  -  -
2. Indemnifications--                                              --
3. Demolitions-------
4. Infrastructure-------                                                                    --
5. Construction of Intill Plots                                                                                      
6. Extensions to Existing Housing-                                     ---                  ---           --                 -
7. Upgradling of Buildinigs en Hefsla                              -                 ----              -                           
8. House Connections                                                   --m-              ~      ~      ---           --         -U
0. SITES AND SERVICES
1. Land Acquisition--                                    -
2. Infrastructure----                                                         -      -
3. Housing Credits and Construction                                       - _    T              - _ _ _           - _    - _
4. Connections--                                                                            --         --                -      --
E. COMMUNITY FACILITIES                                          - _        -  - _ r =    _ = =                       -
F. NEW CONSTRUCTION AT HAFSIA
1. Land Acquisition                                      -
2. Phase I Superstructure-                                             ----                     ---                                    m       -
3. Phase II Superstructure-----                                                                                      ---U--
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES                   - _ _         _  _ _ I      I             _ _ - -    _ _                  _   _ - U                        I
H. PROJECT ADMI NISTRATION                            -          - |    -         in  -  -  -  -  ---
I. ENGINEERING FEES-                                         --             --------                               --
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 .~~~~~~~~ot Bn2930 3



- 60 -
ANNEX 1 0
Tunisia: Third Urban Development Project
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Fiscal       Semester          Disbursement          Disbursements          Balance
Year         Ending           Amount      %         Amount       %       Amount    %
1983     December 82           0         0           0          0       25.00   100.0
June     83          0         0           0          0        25.00   100.0
1984     December 83           0.94      3.76        0.94       3.76    24.06    96.24
June     84          1.36      5.44        2.30       9.20    22.70    90.80
1985     December 84           3.10    12.40         5.40      21.60    19.60    78.40
June     85          3.00    12.00         8.40      33.60    16.60    66.40
1986     December 85           2.52    10.08        10.92      43.68    14.08    55.32
June     86          2.38      9.52       13.30      53.20    11.70    46.80
1987     December 86           2.38      9.52       15.68      62.72     9.32    37.28
June     87          2.00      8.00       17.68      70.72      7.32    29.28
1988     December 87           1.68      6.72       19.36      77.44      5.64    22.56
June     88          1.50      6.00       20.86      83.44      4.14    16.56
1989     December 88           1.49      5.96       22.35      89.40      2.65    10.60
June     89          0.85      3.40       23.20      92.80      1.80      7.20
1990     December 89           0.80      3.20       24.00      96.00      1.00     4.00
June     90          1.00      4.00       25.00    100.0       00.00    00.00



- 61 -                            ANNEX 11
Chart 1
TUNISIA: THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCOME DISTRIBUTION CURVES
Tunis Region
1O 0 0                                                -
0
LU)
90 _                                      -
80 _
70 -_I
80~~
0   6a0 -                         /A
T /O
to                0
7 0 -,   ~/
o   0 
X
JL  50 -
0
30 /-                                                  --HAFSIA
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~ETTADHAMEN
20 -KRAM OUEST
10
0     20  40  60  80  100  120 140 160 180 200 220 240 260 280 300
TD/MONTH
100
90
0~~~~
x~~~~~
0    0  204-08    0   2   4   6   8   0   2   4   6   8   0
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~T/OT
11~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~oldBn-31



- 62 -                            ANNEX 11
Chart 2
TUNISIA: THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
INCONVE DISTRIBUTION CURVES
North West Region
100          /
0
80t    u                                /
20 _       / D ;                                    -  -
70
Io ~          a.          /                                 OENRT
50 -
40
o
30- -                                                      SIDI CHRICHI
20 ---  KEF
GOVERNORAT E
URBAN
0    20  40  60  80  100 120 140 160  180 200 220 240 260 280 300
TD/MONTH
100-
90 
70~~~
so             I-
_j60 
LU                0
0
u_ 40-
07
ZGHADIA
20                                            --  - rJENDOUBA
*GOVERNORATE
1 0          -URBAN
0    20  40  60  80  100  120 140 160  180 200 220  240 260 280 300
TD/MONTH
.* World Bank-23820



Tunisia:   Third Urban Development Project
UPGRADING: DEVELOPMENT CHARGES AND AFFORDABILITY
(AVERAGE CHARGES PER FAMILY)
Ettadhamen/
Site                          Kram Ouest         Douar Hicher           Sidi Chrichi             Zghadia
A.   Cost per Household (TD)
Total development Cost, of which             766                   801                   526                   774
(i)  Directly recoverable b/              253                  253                    253                   253
(ii)  Indirectly recoverable c/            513                  548                    273                   521
B.   Monthly Payment (TD) for:
(i)  Directly recoverable cost           4.80                  4.80                   4.80                  4.80
(ii)  Indirectly recoverable cost          2.68                 2.87                   1.43                  2.73
(iii)  Total Cost                           7.48                 7.67                   6.23                  7.53
C.   Affordability
% of income spent                        10    13    15       10    13      15       10    13    15        10    13    15
Monthly Income Required (TD)             75    57    50       77    59      51       64    48    41        75    58    50
Percentile Reached d/                 35th  19th  14th    38th  18th    8th    22nd  14th   9th    30th  18th  12th
a/  End 1981 prices.
b/  Including on-site water, electricity and sewerage connections to all
networks. Recoverable in 5 years at 9% annually, with payments increasing 5% annually
c/  Including cost of land development, on-site infrastructure, design and supervision.   Recoverable in 20 years at 7%
annually, with payments increasing 5% annually.
d/  See site income distribution curves (Annex 11).                                   



Tunisia; Third Urban Development Project
SITES AND SERVICES; PLOT OPTIONS, DEVELOPMENT CHARGES AND AFFORDABILITY
(End 1981 Prices)
Kram Ouest             Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher               Sidi Chrichi                         Zgbadia
Approximate No. of Plots        210        75       34         450        350       300         90         80         60          80       120         50
Average Plot Size (m2)        60590       120       75         100        120        80        100        120         84         100       120
On plot construction (m2)        12        25       40          12         16        28         12         25         40          12        25         40
Plot Costs a/ (TD)              508      762      1016         588        844      1086        584        730        876        685        816        979
Construction Cost b/ (T)        552     1158      1840         552        736      1288        552.      1158       1840         552      1158       1840
Total Cost (TD)                1313     2173      3109        1393       1833      2627       1389       2141      2969        1490       2227       3072
Downpayment d/ (TD)             263      435       622         279        367       525        278        428        594        298        445        614
Loan Balance (TD)              1050     1738      2487        1114       1466      2102       1111       1713       2375       1192       1782       2458
Montly Payment e/ (TD)         9.44     15.62    22.35        10.01      13.18     18.89      9.99       15.40      21.35      10.71      16.02      22.09
% of Income Spent                20       23        25          20         23        25         20         23         25          20        23         25
Monthly Income Required (TD)   47          68       89          50         57         76        50         67         85          54        70         88
Percentile Reached f/           5th     13th      25th         7th        9th      17th       12th       26th       38th       13tb       28th       42nd
a/  Including coat of land, on site infrastructure and physical contingencies, design and supervision, and interest during construction.
b/  40 TD/m2 + physical contingencies.
c/  80 TD for water, 80 TD for sewerage, 6OTD for electricity and physical contingencies/
d/  20% of total cost.
e/ Over 15 years at 7%.
Kram Ouest and Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher:  Income Distribution curve of Tunis, Sidi Chrichi and Zghadias  Income distribution curve
of urban population of Le Kef and Jendouba governorates respectively. 1981 Income Distribution.



Tunisia; Third Urban Development Project
HAFSIA UPGRADING AND NEW CONSTRUCTION - IMPROVEMENT CHLARGES AND AFFORDABILITY
(End 1981 Prices)
Upgrading of Buildings                            New Buildings in Infill Plots
Option                               Option II
Option I       Option II    Force Account   By Conventional    Force Account    by Conventional
or Small Firms    Contractors        or Small Firms      Contractors
Net Surface of Unit (M2)                  40             30               40               40                   30                30
Gross Surface of Unit (m2)                50             37.5             50                50                  37.5              37*5
Cost of Land (TD/m2 of gross surface)   15               15 
Coat of Infrastructure  C   "       "   )  3.97           3.97             3.97              3.97                3.97              3.97
Cost of Rehabilitation  (   "       "   ) 23.23          23.23
Cost of Contruction      C   "      ")                                    80               110                  80               110
Total Cost fm2 of gross surface)          42.20          42.20            83.97            113.97               83.97            113.97
Connection Costs (TD)                      -              -              220              220                  220               220
Downpayment (TD) a/                        -              -              663              888                  505               674
Loan Balance (TD)                      2,110         .1,583            3,755            5,030                2,864             3,820
Monthly Payment (TD) b/(lst year)          9.3            7.0             16.5              22.1                12.6              16.8
% of Income Spent                         25             25               25                25                  25                25
Monthly Income Required (TD/hh)           37             28               66                88                  50                67         H
Percentile Reached c/                   19th           12th             52nd             71st                 30th              54th
a/  No downpayment for upgrading of buildings; 15X of total cost for new buildings.
b/ Over 25 years at 7Z gradually increasing by 5X annually.
c/ Hafaia income distribution, .1981.



ANNEX 13
Tunisia:  Third Urban Development Project
URBAN POVERTY IMPACT
Component   X Spend on   Amount Spent   Total Number of   UPP Nunber of           UPP Cost    Urban Poor in    Urban Poor Yet
Component                  Cost       the Poor    on the Poor       Beneficiaries    Beneficieries   Per Capita   Need of Services   to be Served
(US$Million)                (US$Million)                                           (US$)
1. Off-Site Infrastructure            7.86         245             1.89            71,500           17,000           111                -
2. Upgrading'                        15.3            34            5.23            28,800            9,050            578          17,400 */            8,350 !/
3. Sites and Services                10.85          49             5.32            10,700            6,600            806          14,000 b/            7,400 b/
4. Urban Renewal                      15.13          22            3.40             6,600 *          2,000 *       1,700                -
5. Community Facilities               2.76          29            0.80             32,900           10,200             78      \        -
6. Technical Assistance and
Studies                          4.49          15            0.67         3,125,800           468,870             1.4              -                   -          0'
7. Project Administration
and Supervision                  3.23          35            1.13            77,400            19,800            57                -
TOTAL                    59.70          31           18.44
!/ Estimated urban poor in spontaneous settlements in project cities.
b/ Estimated urban poor in squatters in project citiee.
*   From residential component.  Not including the couwercial component.
I-'



-67 -                                     ANNEX 14
Chart 1
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARRU: Organization Chart
President/                        Secretariat
Director General                     S
Inenal Audit
Management
Committees
(Tendering, etc.)
Ldisors
Deputy PDG
Legal and
Technical                       Administrative
Directorate                       Directorate
Project Officer
Administratie lLegal and
Project Officer       Ad  Srviie               Real Estate                Financial Division                     Studies Division
LudgetlSurvey    Statistical
Accounting  Budgeting        Secti-an           Services
World B3ank-29334



- 68 -                                    ANNEX 14
Chart 2
TUN ISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AFH: Organization Chart
President/Director General
Deputy Director
Accounts ond               Studies               Technical              Real Estate              General
Administration             Division              Department             Department                Services
Branch
Offices
World Bank-29331



- 69 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
Tunisia: Third Urban Development Project
Description of Costs and Benefits
1.       The net of taxes costs included in the analysis are for; (a) land and
site preparation; (b) the part of off-site infrastructure allocable to the
site; (c) on-site infrastructure and house connections; (d) the sites' share
of community facilities; (e) housing extensions (additions of rooms in the
case of upgrading), construction of 2-room units per plot on average (in the
case of sites and services), and residential and commercial new construction
in Hafsia; (f) physical contingencies; (g) project administration, design and
supervision; and (h) annual operation and maintenance ranging between 0.5% and
5% of investment costs depending on the category of works.
2.       The estimated benefits from the proposed investments correspond to
(a) the increase of rental values for housing as a result of the upgrading,
dedensification, and rehabilitation of dwellings and (b) the additional rents
from the new residential and commercial buildings, sites and services, and
extension of houses. The "with project" rental values are based on the
existing market rents in similar shelter developments and upgraded sites with
comparable location characteristics and levels of service. The rents actually
paid in the project sites represent market prices and were used as "without
project" values with the exception of rents in Hafsia which were increased by
20% to take into account the impact of partial rent control. The following
rental values were used in the analysis:
Upgrading and Sites and Services
(TD/Room/Month)
Without Project                  With Project
Site                 Upgrading   Sites & Services   Upgrading   Sites & Services
Ettadhamen-
Douar Hicher            9                  -              18              20
Kram Ouest              8                 -               17              18
Sidi Chrichi            6                 -               14              16
Zghadia                 7                  -              15              16
Revitalization in Hafsia
New Construction                                     Without Project  With Project
- Apartments of 90m2 (TD/Apt/Month)                                        100
- Commercial Buildings (TD/m2/Year)                        -                60
Upgrading (TD/Apt/Month)
- Upgrading of Apartments of 50m2 - Sidi Younes            11               60
- Sidi Baiane         6               60
- Apartments of 90m2 in Infill Sites:
- Sidi Younes         -              100
- Sidi Baiane                        100



-70 -                                 ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
Tunisia: Third Urban Development Project
C3ST AND BENEFIT STREAMS AND ECLON)MIC RATES OF RETURN
(TID000)
P R 0   E C T   C 0 S T S
Sites and Services                      Upgrading          1aNfia Revitalization
Ecta-  icram   SiWt            1T   Etta-  Kram   SAll 4 New Cons-                            Overall   TOTAL
dhament Ouest Chrichi  Z ghadia  Sites dhamen Oue3t Chrichi 0Zghadi  Sites  truztion  Upgrading Renewal   COSTS
n17    Y7       7T7 Tr) 72J 7;4                           - (( )(i3   )     T (              (9)-(10) fl)-(10)
194     161.6  145.6  147.0   117.4  571.6  109.8  346.4  117.6  184.b  758.4   592.9          168.1    761.0   2091.0
1U3     671.8  138.6  114.6   128.2  1053.2  747.8  259.2  327.4  302.8  1647.2   827.4        419.1    246.5   3946.9
196     741.4  312.9  218.2   171.1  1443.6  1131.5  326.0  229.3  157.0  1843.8   617.8       860.1   1447.9   4765.3
197     641.7  191.2  149.1   150.4  1132.4  365.0  157.6  106.4  148.3  777.3   906.3         923.5   1829.8   3739.5
19t     610.5  145.0  132.4   124.9  1012.8  262.4  110.2   19.4   69.3  461.3   358.4         758.3   1116.7   2590.8
190     103.4   13.6   25.0    20.6  162.6   63.8  23.3   19.4   19.6  126.1   357.9           210.1    478.0    766.7
190      29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3     42.5    190.6
1"9      29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3     42.5    190.6
19       29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3     42.5    190.6
19       29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3     42.5    190.6
194      29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3     42.5    190.6
1"9      29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3      42.5    190.6
MG94     29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3     42.5    190.6
1"9      29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3      42.5    190.6
199      29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2           19.3     42.5    190.6
Im       29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3      42.5    190.6
260      29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2           19.3     42.5    190.6
200      29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2           19.3     42.5    190.6
2001     29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2           19.3     42.5    190.6
2003     29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3      42.5    190.6
2004     29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3     42.5    190.6
200      29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14;2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3      42.5    190.6
20,      2 9.1    9.6   10.9     7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3      42.5    190.6
20?7    29.1    9.6   10.9       7.0   56.6   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2           19.3     42.5    190.6
2000     29.1    9.6   10.9      7.0   56.b   47.0  16.5   14.2   13.8   91.5    23.2          19.3      42.5    190.6
P R 0 J E C T   B E N E P I T S
196             33.0                    33.0          54.9           61.2  116.1   114.6                114.6    263.7
to0     lj2.0   59.4   22.5    28.7  242.6  170.6  98.8  107.3  142.9  519.6   229.2           62.8    292.0   1054.2
199     264.0  101.2   67.5    57.4  490.1  426.4  168.4  160.9  163.3  919.0   343.9         188.4    532.2   1941.4
I"7    396.0  122.2   90.0    86.1  094.3  511.7  203.4  160.9  163.3  1039.3   458.5         314.!    772.6   2506.2
1w"     528.0  137. 8   112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   573.1      439.7   1012.8   3013.7
It"     528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
19"     528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
199     528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3 229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7. 1127.4   3128.3
192    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7   1127.4   3128.3
1"3    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7   1127.4   3128.3
194    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7   1127.4   3128.3
1"5    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7   1127.4   312833
1MG    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7   1127.4   3128.3
1"7    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7   1127.4   3128.3
190    5728.0  1,7.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
19"     528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  89J.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
200    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7         439.7   1127.4   3128.3
2001    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  891.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
2002    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
2002    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
2104    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
2005    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
2004    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
2007    528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
20U     528.0  137.8  112.5   114.8  893.1  554.3  229.3  160.9  163.3  1107.8   687.7        439.7   1127.4   3128.3
ERR:20 ERR:17 ERR:14  ERR:16 ERR:18 ERM:25  ERR:21 ERR:24 ERR:28 ERR:24  ERR:21    ERR:14  ERR:18   ERR:20
NPU    2223    495    301       403   3422   2732   1071    822    890  5515    3103           1173    4276    13213
Notes
a/     Costs used are in mid 1982 prices, net of taxes, estimated st 11 of base cost.
l/     Annual operation and maintenance costs are:
- sewerage, drainage and water supply: 25 of investment cost
- roadworks                       : 52 "       "
- superstructure                    0.5%
- electricity                       17
c/     Current rents + 20% were used in Hafsis to account For rent control.
d/     Physical contingencies included in the costs are 15% for infrastructure and on plot construction.



- 71 -                          ANNEX 16
Page I of 2
Tunisia; Third Urban Development Project
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Aide-Memoires
- project identification (June 1981)
- pre-appraisal mission (November 1981)
- appraisal mission (February 1982)
Preparatory Studies
- Ettadhamen, by the District of Tunis
- Kram Ouest, by SOTUETEC
- Medina of Tunis, by ASM
- Jendouba, by SCET
- Le Kef, by STUDI
- USAID, Study on Upgrading in the Northwest of Tunisia, 1981
(SOTUETEC)
Green Cover Housing Sector Study, September 1982
Project Cash Flows by Site
- Ettadhamen
- Kram Ouest
- Hafsia, Medina of Tunis
- Jendouba
- Le Kef
Legislation
- Creation of MOH
- Statutes of CNEL
-    "      of AFH
-    "     of CPSCL
of ARRU
- Decree creating FOPROLOS
- Decree creating FNAH and status and operating procedures
- CNEL - operating results 1974 to 1980
- CNEL, Annual Reports 1980
- AFH, Annual Reports 1977-1980
- AFH, Five-Year Program 1981-1985.
Bank Prepared Operation Summary
- CNEL
- CPSCL



- 72 -                         ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
Agreements
- Municipalities of Le Kef, Jendouba, La Goulette and the District
of Tunis and ARRU
- Municipality of Tunis and ARRU
- Government and CNEL
- Government and CPSCL
- ARRU and AFH, CNEL and AFH
- ARRU and STEG, ARRU and ONAS, ARRU and SONEDE
Other Documents
- Decree on the Contribution des Riverains
- Contract between ARRU, AFH and beneficiaries



IBRD 16394
T U   N I S I A                                                     j                                11                 JUNE 1982
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       Med,teranean  Sea
PROJECT  CiTIES                                                     Bizert
G_11 /  -   S   n;   (Ruf    T,f , Sun/s  zS~/370
*   Project Cities                 (-                   Beja      <     \                            Goulet
0    Provincial Capitols         j                          ,                 '               /
U Riverssere                                                             /                 /
C_ -'~ Salt Lokes            I/"        JedoE            '>                       ,'                         NabeulJ
*International Airportsrr ,   2 , O 
- -Provincial Boundaries   t    ...................d.Bfid
---international Boundaries                       H Kef 1/~V    uso
-36                      0>t                    \ Silion   /  X>                        >        \  fitmmstme/Sili36
0'                                                  3'                                     i
.   iA L  .             ;      _      4 02>      F              .1 @9\o~~~~~~~~hdio
Lu.    Kolsserineo                                                      
0      <      '                   i-            °~~~~~~~~~~~Sidi Bouzid     
Sfax
-34'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'Chof t           Gofsa             'J
*     \-                 ,-----                                      '-M                             ine
ul           \,,u       ,/ -    K,j\                                                                                                     34
34   )          .__,>      ,.          _< ____--_, .3'                     ____ta\u34e
Toze,u rs                                                                           ob~  -,.s~<9tes 
\   "0  : 0 0f: R ;.- Cho y t                2      40                                                         I
ALGER                                                      7W~_,  h. -'-dby/.                          M  --/
,_             '-              ) 4Jpt                                                            Medenine  ~-' --
K           L BYA                                                                                                        L
|FRANCE            /            YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                         1  -,     
<_._.    <  ,9  Xs\<\33,                                                            <-                |Totocuine            <2t> 3
SPAIN                               3JNAl'i1
M  /ed,ferrac/eeraa        J         f        
/             iT~~~UNISIA    MALTAs~~- 
t  Y   </                                0       20   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILO1METERS                   
A LG ER IA      p;\ .i mln po hbosbc p,&o.o.dhyt thto Wurdd Book, st a*rcf i .ou ioru4 u 5dB ou,'otv;n,,o.
(                         '%*~        ~~~~~~ of the ror duns of lbe mno,ntt , wbich US  atoothod Tho d.oo,om;ntioo used  ud  ho   -
LI Eceta¢ TA                    l'Nh ooma h.- t dzi/ ntP °zaitSrf ht/t tte oA nkn t                               L I B  Y  A






IBRD 16395
MAY 1982
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                           -
Ettadhamen- Douar Hicher
ROADS.                                                  COMMUNITY FACILITIES (Prpoosed) :                                                                      $    \i
_____  Existing Pavd Roads                                A'~   Primary School                                                                 7                                               X 
Proposed Primary Roads                           A      K' dergarler
E apress a py   X-20   (Proposed,   Not   I o Pro, e tc ] fH aom om                                                             7            Xc         £  K  <  -'  .
-       PRIMARY SEWERAGE NETWORK (Proposed)                           C..,                                                       /
PRIMARY WATER SUPPLY NETWORK                            MEDIUM VOLTAGR POWER DlSTRlRUTION P pos d
f~~~~~~~~~~~~Oh. L... 
Erinig Wres Misorhe-ad Lons
Proposedce  Warer Mains g5   v          \\                            ~e                           <                 %   rP         f                                        SUndergroud CaRi es
U  Propose.d Water Renercoirs                        0      usaros7                                                                                   .
0    Proposd Sosai,Not in, Protect         y.'$"                           PY       \varcrOAIo3
STORMWATRR DRAINAGE SYSTEM (Poped)
IYA Hodig Reserovoirsjr                                                                                                                               rrt-
PRIORITY AREAS (Proposd)'                                                         4                                 2 .1
Upgradig                                                                              $4a.i j
sites and Serio-                                            .                                                         ..~
METERS                                                                                                YJ                  f'
otnradrorreotroiroisrrre  tO i,o'iiecioradr
oorindaiiororoirrr or rhioinrpdrnoriinp'r on rtspanrolrte Worry Osirkairdia~~
TUNISI'                          GTNS..
~~~~~~~~LIBYA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    PPt






IBRD 16396
MAY 1982
THIRD  URBAN   DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                               R----.                                                                                                                   N..PotC-t-AeaBondr
--  *O~~~~  --flr                                           ______ ~~~~~~~Vehkicula  Rado and C., Packing
Ped ...ri"n Paths wth posi-bilty fon
Vehicular Ac--s
SEWERAGE and STORMWATER DRAINAGE:
E- Bit,ing Pipes
/                --       ~~~~~~Pipes~ to be Roplood
4  1                       ~~~~~~Proposd NPipe
o  Proposed M-tehulo
WATER SUPPLY.
E-oitig Pipes
I                    Pi~~~pes to ho Replacd
Sp-ts G,.und                           'imary    hool                                           ------ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.isti,og Pipes
Proposed Pipes
C7,                       ~~~~~TELEPHONE CABLES
'ma'y                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELECTRICITY~
E-oitingSusain
~ ~~~1~ ~~  * ~~Propose.d Sobstatun
H a m m                                                                                                                                                              M , d ,, ,   V , 11, g ,   C , b l.'~~~~~ti ss f rs ri o ~ o u u o ,u i u   ii ~ lo   iu w r u i, ur o s o o
OtyiieOo Oi,Odoaiiioni,oiOitidiituteO isnio,o,.wrwidroriiP,ib,i                    o- Cb 
H e a lth                                                                                                                                                                             B-  d. d .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cci w o oh o   iin oi o du u ,i ,i . O i lo . o i a W ~ d w Oc d i~
~~OOpi5iice oTooohOuiiiido,,r5N                                                                                      nc11 0~hci-   M'1-u






IBRD 16397
TUNISIA                            MY18
g t  3 -- G 0                            THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UPGRADING OF KRAM  OUEST
IN LA GOULETTE
Sidi Amor
*'' ROADS                        WATER SUPPLY.
SEWERAGE:                    Existing Wator Pipe 0100,m
Existing Sewer              Existi.g Water Pipe *SOr0-
\' Nf <<   \\,   - - Proposed Sewer 4250 m.  Proposed Water Pipe #80mm
N.--Proposed Sewer +200-t       SIREET LIGHTtN.G.
---Underground Cables
Overhead Lines
High Voltage Lines
Internohonal Boundaries
\VS O 10 ~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
KRAM OUEST
/z<  \5BA-
_                    g      \ / \   TR XO. Di  M
4iwditarrexLcw7 ~~~~~~~~~~ 1  N   /  /'f               ,              \\        t  \t,,,~~~~~~~~~~
1:X    t~                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 16398
MAY 1982
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UPGRADING OF KRAM OUEST                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROADS
IN  LA  GOULETTE                                                                                                                                                                                      -       E. oisti. Sewsr +4Orrm
Boujnah                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER SUPPLY:
Existing WaIte  Pipes 4Omm0,
Pr.p.sed Wter Pipes 08On.
STREET LIGHTING
0          1O          20           30
I_______________________________                                                                                        s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              Undergroced  Cabl,desm..   C.le
METERS                                                                                                                                                                                             Oerhead Li 'es
1',g1 Volt.g. Li-e
International Boundaries
Th,o snap han b-e prep-rd by the
World B-eko ntff e-ul--uly for
the ua.--ec of the reder of
the repo to  hich it/  ttached
Thu d--om,r-,o-  -sd and the
do nor imply. on tb part of the
World Bach and/ afit.u fflan y
judg.net on the legal otat  0y
any toreioy oray -nd--foan
-r uuptae o. 0S-ch b-oodrie-
KRAM QUEST
SIDI AMI
RUE DESMATR
LIBYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'IA






IBRD 18399
) . R U E D E S  M A R T Y R S                                                                                                                                      MAY 1982
ROADS
SE WE RAGE:
b*~Eierin  Sewer  300 or,
Propose:d "S.- r 250m-
WATER SUPPLY;
Eo.sr.g Wor  Pipes
.,100, 80 or,
PRo pURBd oVELM, Pi, 0os  S
STPREET LIGHTING:
U,d.spg,-d CoMes,
-   OerFed Line
KRAM QUEST
THIRD  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                                                                                         ,'Ro,]_ oler
UPGRADING  OF KRAM  QUEST IN LA GOULETTE                                                                                                                                                                                                     BO,";  ROlY,A
M'ti ratRUDE   rRRSTIA






IBRD 16400
MAY 1982
RUE 5 DECEMBRE
TUN ISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UPGRADING OF KRAM OUEST IN LA GOULETTE
Trabelsia - Jraba
ROADS            ~~~~~WATER SUPPLY
l 0  /  l  \ C  SEWERAGE:  -     E.iW.g Whe, Pip., 4100,80
Exist ng Se.- *400.m  -    Propos.d WoI., Pipes 4 80 -
-~~~~~~~~~~II P-p.. S. -20                                                                                                   STEE LIGHTINGtRE  D  OROU
Und.,g,-,d Cobb.,
0                                              High   Lm_   XKRAM  OUEST
t), 10 Eu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,t,~,,o,Le                     0
]  j     11 1                                             8                  METERSRUE5101K RMOR1
l~~~~~~~~~~~f <1a== A
RUE    A9DELKAY~~~~~~~M    EL   KAE1AB~~~~~  ~~  /UEMETKORAU
-   ~~~~~~  \ ~~~~~~~)LIBYU~~KAMOUS






IR   16401
MAY 1982
~~~~~TUN,S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~TUII
~~~~~~~~~~( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THIRD  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sidi Chrichi in Le Kef
Ths alav#n Dshn vs d ss Ihe   a   2   k                         |       u                                  \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 10 20 20 4  50 vO 705 RO0 100
440  oo .d a to mdoStholtvo mv,                                                                                                                 I  LV    ~           METERS
ptOgttrt ot tmHhod. .os Ott' 09                                          2_-_==
t.tottt ott/ott Sot to ott I ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       c-t.






LAND USE                                         WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                                                                          TUNISIA                                          MMR 16402
---     5          --BPI."    -    Conc/ete S-p-g     MoM. 4-Orn                                                                                                                        -\                                              THIRD  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
Eo-d.d S ,oo nd Se-i- e                   -    P-opod P,DO, a.no. 0                                                                                                                                            -                        UPGRADING  AND  SITES  AND  SERVICES
Cwlended 51tEalond                               Prl aco   Coonocjon, n Load Pi,inG                                 <    i       .        atC    K                                  .     ; z              -,            \                          Zghadia    Quarter   of   Jendouba
Co        I Z.-one_                              STORMWATER DRAINAGE
SPYn  IS      lyco                              E-t,o,,   Co-bined S.-,~                                                                                                                                                      
x Pannele olbananed tn                           Sco-_ _nT  Sea,o  P,apo.ed in S.a.aga M.e,,. Pln -NE-
UndOaClaDad Land             ~          = - Peapoond Dra,nage Callacla                           :                                     :c0                          <s                                                             \\
f.d                                                                                                                                                                             -ZONE 
P: _c              D     gC1. roi-  F     11---
ROADS.                                           TETLOIIY./4
E__     E        ing Rad o, Typ. A               STRE ET Goa,he5d LGT N
______  Ec,,ng Roae, TOD ~              -     PEapo-a  GO.,hed Lic                                                                       -~~' 
-    Pnopneed Roade, Type E                            ...                 ,
~  Pnocooed Ped-, or, PolIh, Type C- R                                                U E       AVICEN         NE
SEWERAGE:-                                   , Ianlao  BE-d,,dn            
-  a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - -en- -   -  -,,- -e-oe
- p-:d T-k Sea
Col, Ro      .. oondany
Z   1,-,  It,t,,n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4dl,,,., e
IMETE ES
UW             -DIO                                                                                                         TUNISLU
ayl lbeyed- dl -I OO  000b 10 loda  Ma d--a  mboedo-          n
Oad,,0c a n s Or al5hoaopdh1bnlMI Ol Ma as o bdvamlvdrnve WN  n dmS,lo                                                 .2          /    2    _                 (       v       <
b-2' \6-                                     LIIDUA  



