Document of
The World Bank    FL                        A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3421-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 24, 1982
This decument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating.  The rate used
in the Staff Appraisal Report, which approximates the current rate, is:
US$1    =    TD 0.5
IDI    =    US$2
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFH           Land Development Agency (Agence Fonciere d'Habitation)
ARRU          Urban Upgrading and Renewal Agency (Agence pour la
Rehabilitation et la Renovation Urbaine)
BDET          Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie)
CNEL          National Housing and Savings Fund (Caisse Nationale
d'Epargne-Logement)
CPSCL         Local Communities Support Fund (Caisse de Prgts et de Soutien
des Collectivit6s Locales)
FOPROLOS      Workers' Housing Fund (Fonds Social pour la Promotion du
Logement des Salaries)
IERR          Internal Economic Rate of Return
MOE           Ministry of Equipment
MOH           Ministry of Housing
MOINT         Ministry of Interior
MOPF          Ministry of Planning and Finance
ONAS          National Sewerage Authority (Office National d'Assainissement)
SONEDE        National Water Production and Distribution Company (Societe
Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux)
STEG          Public Electricity and Gas Company (Societe Tunisienne de
I'Electricit4 et du Gaz)



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Tunisia.
Beneficiaries:      The Municipalities of Tunis, La Goulette, Jendouba, Le Kef
and the District of Tunis; and the Local Communities
Support Fund (CPSCL).
Amount:             US$25.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years, including three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   The Government would onlend $6.4 million to CPSCL at an
interest rate of 11.43 percent per annum, repayable in 20
years including three years of grace. CPSCL would relend
these amounts at cost, for 20 years including two years of
grace. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The project would provide improved shelter and urban
services to low-income population groups; strengthen and
coordinate the activities of the urban sector's technical
and financial institutions; contribute to the elaboration
of urban and housing development planning and policies; and
introduce new schemes to mobilize private savings for the
financing of housing. It would consist of: (i)
comprehensive upgrading in four settlements; (ii) a sites
and services/housing credit scbeme in three of these
settlements; (iii) a pilot program of upgrading and
reconstruction of the Hafsia neigbborhood in the Medina of
Tunis; and (iv) technical assistance for project
implementation, institution building and pre-investment
studies.
Benefits:           About 77,000 people would benefit directly or indirectly
from the project, of wbicb about 26 percent are below the
absolute poverty level. The project would meet 21 percent
of the urban poor new demand for shelter in the project
sites between 1983 and 1988. It would build up a well
coordinated technical, financial, and institutional
framework that would allow more effective management and
control of the urbanization process, and would associate
the private sector in an innovative approach to the
upgrading of old traditional Arab towns that could be
replicated in Tunisia and in other countries.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance off
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks-,             The risk that the relative inexperience of key executing
agencies could affect project implenentation is reduced by
technical assistance to fill present gaps and gradually
train Tunisian staff to take over operations. Difficulties
which could arise from the complexity of project components
would be minimized by intensive Bank supervision, and, at
the local level, by a public relations program and other
incentives to encourage community participation; and, for
the Medina pilot scheme, by its flexible implementation
through small, easily manageable operations. Finally, the
risk that land acquisition would delay the sites and
services component is minimized by the powers given to the
Urban Upgrading and Renewal Agency (ARRU) to expropriate
land under emergency procedures.
Estimated Costs:                          Local           Foreign           Total
…___________ $US Million       …
Land Acquisition                        2.5              -                2.5
Civil Works                            15.3             11.2             26.5
Sites and Services                      4.1              3.4              7.5
and Housing Credit Scheme
Technical Assistance                    0.7              3.1              3,8
Project Administration                  2.6              -                2.6
Total Base Cost                     25.2             17.7             42.9
Physical Contingencies                  2.8              1.7              4.5
Price Contingencies                     7.1              5.2             12.3
Total Contingencies                  9.9              6.9             16.8
TOTAL-PROJECT COST                  35.1 /1          24.6             59.7
Front-end Fee                     -                0.4              0.4
TOTAL-FINANCGING-REQUIRED           35..1            25.0             60.1
Financing Plan:                           Local           Fore-iR           Total
…$US Million
IBRD                                    -               25.0             25.0
Government                             22.7              -               22.7
Beneficiaries                           7.6                               7.6
Private Developers                      4.8              -                4.8
TOTAL                                  35.1             25.0             60.1
/1 Including $7.0 million of taxes (20 percent of total local cost).



- 111 -
Estimated
Disbursements:                     -----------------US $ Million-----------------
Bank FY  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Annual                              2.3   6.1   4.9   4.4   3.2   2.3   1.8
Cumulative                          2.3   8.4  13.3  17.7  20.9  23.2  25.0
Rate-of Return: 20 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3917-TUN of November 15, 1982.
4 ~ ~      ~



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .                         t 



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank loan
to the Republic of Tunisia for US$25.0 million equivalent to help finance a
Third Urban Development Project.  The loan, wbicb includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 20 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government would onlend US$6.4 million of the Bank loan to the Local
Communities Support Fund (CPSCL) at an interest rate of 11.43 percent per
annum, repayable in 20 years including three years of grace. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART-1 -- THE ECONOMY I/
2. The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic Memorandum"
(No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981. Economic missions visited
Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects their preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I. 2/
3. Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land
is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to
severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas; although the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and those of
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there are recent promising
indications of new reserves, but it is too early to assess their exact
potential. There is also considerable tourism potential, which has developed
rapidly during the 1970s.
4. Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. The sharp decrease in mortality
rates was not fully compensated by the simultaneous decrease in fertility and
birth rates, despite an active family planning policy pursued by the
Government. Therefore, the annual natural demographic growth rate decreased
only slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s.
Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
I/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I from President's Report No.
3306-TUN of August 26, 1982, for a Technical Assistance Project.
2/ Country data have been updated on the basis of this review, and thus
sometimes differ from the Country Data sheets in Annex I.



-  2-
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a
consequence, the residential population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981
exceeds the level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tuuisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total invest-
ments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive sec-
tors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phospbate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors, how-
ever, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 wbile
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17 per-
cent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so mucb in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected both mainly because of the slump in European markets. By
contrast, manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy,
phosphate processing, construction, and construction materials, expanded at a
fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particular-
ly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable from
1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than exports,
and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher post-1974
export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained relative-
ly small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of invest-
ment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76 to 30
percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450 million per
year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and private investments
(mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder
was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s
total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service
ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and re-
distributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent
to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues were saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including social security accounted for 19 percent
of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.2
percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per annum, mainly because
of poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective of $9.8
billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully met. Completion of
some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of the oil re-
finery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments, both foreign
and national, exceeded Plan targets.



-  3  -
10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for the Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 ?ercent of the labor force in 1980, bas therefore not declined.
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. Its main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Compared to past investment allocations by sectors, priority is to be given to
agriculture, tourism, and electrical and mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas sec-
tor. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging. Based
on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual level of
5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. However,
barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in domestic
demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a relative
decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the situation
requires immediate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent ones to be
included in the Sixtb Plan. By introducing these changes on time, Tunisia
expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and avoid major
balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growtb rate is in
line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports (tourism,
textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compensate for
the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, bowever, take time to
bear fruit given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to
control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in
terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the external account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan
period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices
relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct recent
capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium manufac-
turing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incen-
tive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to offer
free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new projects



- 4 -
in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household
Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient technical and
financial management of the public and private modern sector, the Plan assigns
a major role in project promotion and supervision to an expanded network of
new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are planned for 1982);
they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors and should alleviate the
pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
housing and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and
a better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption
and stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government recog-
nizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost increases
(including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with productivity
increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism, and improve
its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still presents serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some
rural zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricul-
tural performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the
interior (West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and
subsidies as well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact.
The Government is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the largest zones of
poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprebensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 102 percent for primary education, and 25
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could, how-
ever, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving their
relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the
poor and rural groups.



-  5  -
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries. In the housing sector,
public programs were not geared to the specific needs of the poor, they served
urban middle-income families, and public servants in particular.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
sbelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and
nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs
will be more targeted to the neediest population groups than in the past.
Given appropriate incentives, the private sector could, probably to a larger
extent than the Plan's forecasts, satisfy the housing demand of households
above the minimum standard income limit.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing sbare of foreign funds was provided by public sources at relatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and some
oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $608 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1.2 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, witb ODA providing half of
the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas discoveries,
external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export revenues in
1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic
demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and credit-
wortbiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is to succeed
in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in the



- 6 -
Plan. Foreign itovestments were small during most of the 1970s but have gained
momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities in the
oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing.
Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to about $200 million
in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total investments for
1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15 percent of total
investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent to an annual
inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks (para. 14) are
expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and
skillful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good
grounds to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
policy changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending.
The Bank's close dialogue  witb the Government on several policy aspects at
the macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the implementa-
tion of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA 1/
25.      Since 1962, the Bank bas committed to Tunisia fifty-two loans and ten
IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,056.3 million and $70.0 million (net
of cancellations) of which twenty-one loans and all credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of
September 30, 1982, overall disbursements amounted to 53 percent of appraisal
estimates, which compares favorably with other countries in the region.
Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance and port projects
has generally been above the country average, while larger than average
disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural credit, education,
highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project specific problems that
are being addressed through supervision missions and sector discussions. In a
number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies bave been created or strengtbened to ensure the
efficient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population
groups; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and labor
productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in
the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects tbrough missions and
advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program,
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (No.
3306-TUN) of August 26, 1982, for a Technical Assistance Project.



the use of the Bank?s Project Preparation Facility, and the Technical
Assistance Project (para. 27). The Bank is also supporting the Government in
its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure
cofinancing for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important
in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure bas accounted for 34
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 23 percent, and industrial
and botel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), 18 percent of total commitments. In addition, earlier this fiscal
year, the Bank made a first loan for technical assistance aimed at improving
the Government's capability for project identification and preparation.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the
least developed regions of the country, develop researcb capabilities,
increase productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to
employment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In
addition to the proposed third urban development project aimed at improving
shelter and urban services to low-income population groups, proposed future
lending would include projects in agriculture, industry, energy, health and
education.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country. A preliminary analysis of this
issue was included in the last Country Economic Memorandum (Report No.
3399-TUN of September 15, 1981). The Plan Review Report, to be issued together
witb two sector surveys on agriculture and urban development towards the end
of 1982, will deepen this analysis. Further economic and sector work will
include a review of employment issues, of incentive and pricing policies (in
association witb the study on effective protection), of the long-term energy
strategy and of the education, transport, and small scale industry sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 9
percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
is expected to remain at about 10 percent and their share in the debt service
to increase to about 13 percent through 1986.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financi6re et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Socidt6 Touristique et Hoteli6re RYM (a large botel



-  8  -
development), in Industries Cbimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $10.6
million, as of September 30, 1982. IFC has recently arranged a $40 million
loan package to COFIT, of which about $20 million equivalent for IFC's own
account, and is looking into the possibility of loans for the expansion of a
phosphoric acid fertilizer plant and of technical assistance to the recently
established development banks.
PART III - THE SECTOR
32.      Urbanization Patterns.  Tunisia is one of the most urbanized
countries in the Mediterranean Region, witb urban dwellers accounting for
about 55 percent of the country's total population in 1981. The rapid
increase of its urban population during the last three decades has accelerated
in recent years. This is partly due to the relatively high population growth,
and the return of migrant workers from abroad mainly to urban areas
(para. 4). The most important factor was, bowever, the intensive internal
rural-urban migration which accounted for more than half of the urban
population growth between 1975 and 1980.   The prime destination of these
migratory flows in the early 1970s was Tunis and the large cities along the
eastern coast, where industrial and tourism activities were concentrated. As
a result, the population of Greater Tunis currently exceeds that of the twenty
next most populous cities togetber. In addition to the continuing growth of
Greater Tunis, recent settlement patterns indicate a major shift towards large
urban clusters in the Northwest, where the urban population of Jendouba and Le
Kef is growing at a very high rate. In comparison to Greater Tunis and the
Northwest, all other regions bave experienced a relative decline in urban
growth rates in recent years.
33.      Urban and Housing Conditions.  Rapid urbanization, particularly since
the mid-1970s, led to a deterioration of housing and urban conditions at the
periphery, and in the old traditional quarters (medinas) within large cities.
The particularly rapid growth of the Tunis and Northwest regions has resulted
in many families living in squatter settlements. In spite of the fact that 53
percent of the 1980 total housing stock was located in urban areas, and that,
during 1975-1980, over 60 percent of new construction took place in urban
areas, overcrowding has become serious. This is clearly reflected in the
increase in one-room units from 17 to 26 percent of all urban dwellings
between 1975 and 1980, and in occupancy rates wbich rose from 2.2 to 2.4
persons per room, and from 1.2 to 1.5 nuclear families sharing one dwelling.
This overcrowding is particularly serious in the squatter settlements. The
magnitude of the demand for bousing has outpaced the ability of the public
sector to control urbanization. About 52 percent of the urban dwellings built
during 1975-1980 bypassed urban development regulations, and was largely
undertaken by the informal sector relying on the construction of one-room
units through self-help, low-cost construction methods. Although about 90
percent of the new dwellings are of good quality and permanent materials, they
were built in areas lacking appropriate infrastructure and community
facilities. A 1982 study by the Bank, in cooperation witb the Ministry of
Housing (MOH), of the Tunisian housing sector identified the following main
bottlenecks: the unavailability of sufficient and affordable serviced land for
bousing; the complexity and inadequacy of the technical, financial, and
institutional framework; the failure of public programs to meet the bousing



-  9  -
needs of the lowest third of the national income curve; and the insufficient
attention given to spatial implications in urban and housing planning.
34.      Urban Poverty.  About 15 percent of Tunisia's urban population lives
below the Bank-defined absolute poverty threshold, estimated in 1981 at TD 60
($120) per household/month. This represents a considerable improvement over
the 1978 figure of 20 percent. Compared to other countries with similar
characteristics, Tunisia's urban poverty problem appears containable. Efforts
must be made, however, to improve the access for formal sector housing
programs of the urban poor, and other low-income households with monthly
incomes below the total urban population medium income of TD 120 ($240). The
proposed project is targetted to these population groups.
35.      Government Response to Housing Needs.  Until the mid-1970s, the
Government response to urban growth and housing needs consisted mainly of slum
clearance operations, and highly subsidized schemes aimed at rehousing
displaced families. Since 1973, a number of institutions have been
established to deal with various sector programs, and have conducted vast
housing operations. However, they have failed to adequately meet the new
demand for housing of the lower-income urban population. Recently, as a
result of efforts made tbrough the Bank-financed Second Urban Development
Project, and similar projects supported by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the Government has accepted the concepts of
upgrading settlements instead of demolishing them, developing low-cost sites
and services projects, and recovering the costs of infrastructure and
improvements. The conclusions of the Bank-supported housing sector study
(para. 33) represented a major contribution to the formulation of tbe housing
policies and programs of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-1986). The Plan
envisages that the housing sector will absorb the equivalent of $2 billion,
representing about 12 percent of total investments, whicb include the
provision of 160,000 bousing units. This housing program would contribute to
the Plan's major objectives of reducing social and regional disparities, and
of greater reliance on the private sector which is expected to provide about
45 percent of bousing finance, mainly through private savings.
36.      Institutional Framework.  Tunisia is divided into 21 Governorates
under the supervision of the Ministry of Interior (MOINT). At the local
level, in urban areas, authority is vested in Municipalities, which are
subdivisions of the Governorates. With very few exceptions, Tunisia's 167
Municipalities, which cover a third of the country's area, and more than half
its total population, have insufficient staff, limited management capacity,
and little control over their financial resources. They rely heavily on
direct Government budgetary allocations or subsidized loans for their
operating and investment budgets. Since 1975, CPSCL (Caisse de PrEts et de
Soutien des Collectivites Locales), the Local Communities Support Fund, a
financially autonomous agency, has served as the intermediary for Government
long-term, low-interest loans to Municipalities to finance community
facilities and infrastructure projects. The management of CPSCL's sizeable
loan portfolio (about $44 million equivalent in 1981) is bandled by BDET
(Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie) the Economic Development Bank
of Tunisia. CPSCL extends two types of loans to Municipalities: for social
projects, with interest at 2 percent per annum for 20 years including two
years of grace, and for income-generating commercial projects, at 4 percent
per annum for up to 10 years. CPSCL is a financially healthy operation; its



- lo -
arrears are neglilgible. It is receiving technical assistance under the Second
Urban Development Project, and would be further strengthened under the
proposed project.
37.      The Ministry of Housing (MOH) was created in November 1980 to take
over from the Ministry of Equipment (MOE) the responsibility for shelter and
related issues. It has technical departments for project planning and
programming; urban planning, upgrading and renewal, and research and studies.
To extend appropriate support to the Municipalities in the management of their
urban development programs, MOH is in the process of expanding its activities
through the establishment of regional offices at the Governorate level. It is
also developing policies and programs, in collaboration with MOINT, for
training municipal staff in the technical, administrative and financial
aspects of urban management. The proposed project would support these
policies and programs. MOH has under its control three major public agencies
which will all be actively involved in the proposed project: AFH (Agence
Foncibre d'Habitation) a Land Development Agency; CNEL (Caisse Nationale
d'Epargne-Logement) a National Housing and Savings Fund; and ARRU (Agence pour
la R4habilitation et la Renovation Urbaine) an Urban Upgrading and Renewal
Agency.
38.      AFH is a semi-autonomous non-profit public agency established in 1973
to develop serviced sites. It has administrative, financial, technical,
studies, and real estate divisions, with about 30 professional staff. To
date, it has developed some 400 ha of land. Individual lots are sold at cost,
plus 10 percent overhead. Beneficiaries pay 60 percent at contract signature,
30 percent before works begin, and 10 percent upon completion. The AFH was
initially funded through a Government grant of $4 million in 1974; the advance
payments from its beneficiaries are used to finance its operations. AFH
policy of charging in advance, as well as the fact that it offers only large
lots of 200 to 400 m2, has resulted in its plots being affordable only to
middle and high income families. Low income buyers, after acquiring the land,
have often failed to qualify for a housing loan. By reducing the size of the
plots developed by AFH, and devising a scheme offering these sites together
with housing loans in affordable packages, the proposed project would
contribute to the expansion of this institution, allowing it, in particular,
to service low-income households. In addition, AFH's operations, of which
about 90 percent bave been to date undertaken in Greater Tunis, would be
extended to other areas, thus making it more responsive to the Sixth Plan's
goal of reducing regional disparities.
39.      CNEL was established in 1974 to mobilize domestic savings via
contractual savings plans channeled to bousing construction loans.  It rapidly
became a successful and well managed institution.  CNEL's lending rate is 5.5
percent per annum including a 1 percent Government subsidy, with maturities of
10 and 15 years including two years of grace, depending on the type of savings
program. In 1978, it created a special Workers' Housing Fund - FOPROLOS
(Fonds Social pour la Promotion du Logement des Salaries) to grant loans to
wage earners with salaries below one-and-a-half times the minimum legal wage.
FOPROLOS loans are granted for 15 years at 3 percent interest per annum.
However, both CNEL and FOPROLOS programs ran into difficulty as savings
contracts came to maturity, and not enough affordable serviced sites were
available to satisfy demand. Also, with inflation, the cost of housing
increased faster than the saving capacity of its subscribers. The sites and



- ii -
services/housing credit scheme under the proposed project, which would be
channelled through CNEL, is designed to assist in overcoming these bottlenecks.
40.      ARRU was established in 1981 as an agency of MOH, and given autonomy
and broad powers to coordinate urban renewal and upgrading activities,
including the provision of utility services, and improve the management and
control of the urbanization process. All the Ministries involved in the urban
sector, as well as the national utility companies, are represented on its
board. It offers comparatively high salaries, and has already attracted a
core of highly qualified professional staff. The technical assistance program
under the proposed project would further strengthen the implementation
capacity of ARRU.
41.      National Utility Companies.  Design, construction, operation and
maintenance of utility networks and services in urban areas are the
responsibility of national companies, attached to different Ministries: the
National Water Production and Distribution Company (SONEDE), under the
Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for water supply and distribution; the
National Sewerage Autbority (ONAS), under MOE, responsible for urban sewerage
and drainage systems; and the Public Electricity and Gas Company (STEG), under
the Ministry of National Economy, responsible for power production and
distribution. Solid waste collection and disposal is funded by MOINT, and
carried out by the Governorates or the Municipalities.
42.      Previous Urban-Related Bank Lending and Bank Strategy.  Since 1966,
the Bank has maintained a close dialogue with the Tunisian authorities on
urban and related sectoral policies. The Bank Group has extended one credit
and six loans for water supply totalling $125 million. Since the First Water
Supply project wbich belped establish SONEDE in 1968, the percentage of urban
dwellings connected to the system bas increased from 43 to 71 percent. In the
sewerage subsector, the Tourism Infrastructure project (1972) belped upgrade
the sewerage network in five tourism areas; and the First and Second Urban
Sewerage projects (1975 and 1979) included the construction and rehabilitation
of treatment plants, the expansion of the sewage and stormwater collection
system in Greater Tunis, and the improvement of the system's network in Tunis
and Sfax. These tbree projects, with loans totalling $70.6 million, have
helped establisb and develop ONAS, and have improved the sewerage systems of
26 Municipalities. About 51 percent of urban dwellings were connected to
sewerage in 1980, as compared to 43 percent in 1975. A Third Urban Sewerage
project under preparation would extend these services to 30 additional urban
centers. Three power projects have built up and improved STEG's financial and
technical capability, and supported its development operations.  A 1981 Bank
loan for a Third Power project includes the strengthening of the electricity
distribution system in 60 urban centers. About 85 percent of urban dwellings
were connected to electricity in 1980, as compared to 68 percent in 1975.
43.      The Bank's first urban development operation in Tunisia, the Tunis
District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project (Loan 937-TUN and Credit
432-TUN of 1973 totalling $11 million) is now completed. It improved traffic
conditions in Tunis, renewed and expanded the Tunisian National Transport
Agency's bus fleet, and developed a suburban railway. It supported the
establishment of the District of Tunis, the first regional planning authority
in the country. In its early years of operation, the District was influential
in establishing spatial patterns of development for Greater Tunis, and in



-  12  -
guiding policies related to low-income housing. However, its performance,
particularly for the last three years, fell short of expectations, mainly as a
result of lack of Government support. Its status is the subject of an
on-going dialogue between the Bank and the Government. The Second Urban
Development Project ($19 million Loan 1705-TUN of 1979, of which $3.2 million
disbursed as of November 11, 1982) includes upgrading and sites and services
in two low-income settlements in Tunis and three in Sfax, a solid waste
collection and disposal operation in Greater Tunis, and a line of credit for
small-scale businesses. The technical assistance component of this project
has contributed to strengthening CPSCL, which has efficiently cbanneled Bank
funds, and to the establishment of a Central Project Unit within MOINT, now
transferred to the MOH to constitute its Upgrading and Urban Renewal
Department. This Department now carries responsibility for the implementation
of the Second Urban Development Project, and has participated in the
preparation of the proposed project. The Second Urban Development Project has
also provided support to the Municipalities of Tunis and Sfax, which have
geared up well for project execution. However, overall implementation has
suffered serious delays. While physical works in Sfax are progressing well,
they have been slowed in Tunis by physical site difficulties, and poor
coordination between contractors and utility companies, leading to cost
overruns. Measures have been taken to improve coordination, and introduce
more effective and cost-efficient self-help construction techniques. The
execution of the small-scale business assistance component was slowed since
cheaper funds became available from a new Government fund, which extends
highly subsidized loans to craftsmen and small businesses (para. 14). Upon
the Government's request, this component has now been dropped, and the unused
balance reallocated to the project's civil works component. The solid waste
collection and disposal operation has also suffered from delays in
establishing an executing agency. A Government decision on the matter is
expected in the near future. Experience under this project has indicated that
the most appropriate formula for low-income housing development in Tunisia is
construction by self-help techniques, on sites developed by contractors, as
opposed to the core housing system originally envisaged; this has led to the
adoption of this formula for construction work under the proposed project.
44.      The new approach to the provision of shelter and services to the
urban poor (para. 35), introduced by Bank and similar USAID supported
projects, was well received and publicized in Tunisia, and bas created demand
for similar operations in other deprived areas. To provide a rational basis
for site selection, a study was undertaken with the assistance of USAID which
classified the sites to be upgraded in order of priority. The sites selected
for the proposed project are based on the results of tbis study. It is
expected that the operations under the proposed project will be replicated in
other spontaneous settlements in deprived suburban areas, and in "medinas!'
within urban centers. It is also hoped that channelling the proposed project
funds througb existing institutions, strengthening them, and improving
interagency coordination would allow future Bank lending to Tunisia for
low-income bousing to take eventually a more sectoral approacb, through loans
to specific institutions on the basis of agreed national urban bousing
programs; this would offer opportunities for a variety of cofinancing
arrangements.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.      Background.  The proposed project would contribute to the
implementation of the Government's housing and urban development policies and
programs under the Sixth Plan, and promote replicable financial, administra-
tive and technical schemes to meet the rapidly increasing Aemand for urban
housing and services. It was identified in June 1981, and preparation work
started in August 1981. The project was appraised in February 1982.
Negotiations were held in Washington from October 21 to November 2, 1982. The
Tunisian Delegation was beaded by Mr. Hassouna Ben-Ali, Director General in
the Directorate of Projects of the Ministry of Planning and Finance, and
included representatives from the Ministries of Planning and Finance, Housing,
and Interior, and from CPSCL and CNEL. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3917,
dated November 15, 1982) is being circulated separately. The main features of
the project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of
this report, and in Annex III. A map showing the location of project sites is
also attached.
46.      Objectives and Description.  The proposed project would redress
inequities in housing conditions by providing improved shelter and urban
services to low-income population groups in five selected settlements. It
would strengthen the major technical and financial institutions in the urban
sector, and contribute to the rationalization and coordination of their
activities. It would also assist in regularizing occupancy status and
mobilizing local financial resources. Through its program in the Medina of
Tunis, the project is expected to provide a model for the upgrading and
renovation of similar areas within other Tunisian cities, and eventually in
other Arab countries. The project would consist of: (i) comprebensive
upgrading in four selected settlements; (ii) a sites and services/housing
credit scbeme in three settlements; (iii) a pilot revitalization program of
the Hafsia neighborhood in the Medina of Tunis; and (iv) technical assistance
for project implementation, institution building, and pre-investment studies.
47.      Sites.  Of the five project sites, three are in Greater Tunis:
Hafsia, a small area in the Medina of Tunis (para. 50), Ettadhamen-Douar
Hicher, a large zone at the periphery of Tunis, under the jurisdiction of the
District of Tunis, and Kram-Ouest in La Goulette; and two are in the Northwest
region: Zghadia in Jendouba, and Sidi Cbrichi in Le Kef. The total area of
these sites ranges from 13.5 ha (Hafsia) to 250 ha (Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher),
and their population ranges from 3,500 (Sidi Chrichi) to 55,000
(Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher).
48.      The upgrading component in Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher, Kram-Ouest,
Zghadia and Sidi Chrichi consists of: i) improving and extending
infrastructure networks, including primary and secondary roads and footpaths,
water, sewerage, stormwater drainage and electricity, as well as improving
housebold connections to utility services; ii) providing community services
such as schools, sports grounds, health and community centers; and iii)
providing loans for bome extensions, and for construction of about 400 new
houses on vacant plots between buildings (infill plots).
49.      The sites and services/housing credit scheme would be implemented in
Ettadbamen-Douar Hicher, Zghadia and Sidi Chrichi. It would consist of
i) acquiring sites in these areas; ii) dividing these sites into about 1,600



- 14 -
new serviced plots ranging from 60 to 120 m2; iii) providing the s           ith
roads, stormwater drainage, and utility networks, and utility connections for
the plots; and iv) extending credit for the purchase of plots and the
construction of housing. The beneficiaries would receive architectural plans
and technical guidance for housing construction which would range from 12 to
40 m2.
50.      The Medina of Tunis represents a typical Arab urban organization
model, dating back to the 8th century, with a number of valuable bistorical
buildings. Hafsia is a part of the southern section of the Medina, designated
as an historic zone for conservation and renovation. Over-crowding and the
deterioration of buildings and infrastructure have resulted in the migratiou
of the more affluent inhabitants to more modern areas of the capital;
demolitions, and the evacuation of a large zone for safety reasons have left a
central vacant area of some 2.2 ha. Immigrants from rural areas have settled
in the large, dilapidated dwellings (oukalas) which surround this vacant area,
and which have been subdivided into small rooms for low-cost rent.
Conservation and renovation of this area would be undertaken witb the
collaboration of the Association for the Conservation of the Medina (ASM), an
agency of the Municipality of Tunis, which is responsible for preserving this
area's historical and cultural values, would participate in the implementation
of this project component.
51.      The Hafsia pilot program is part of a detailed master plan that has
now been completed, and which the Government has agreed to promulgate by
December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.14). This program consists of i)
improving, repairing and extending the road, water supply, sewerage,
electricity, telecommunications and gas networks in the area; ii) upgrading
about 47,000 m2 of existing buildings, and constructing about 135 new housing
units on infill plots; iii) constructing some commercial buildings and housing
units on part of the vacant land to set standards and patterns for development
of the whole area; and iv) sale of the remaining vacant land to private
developers who are expected to build small hotels, apartment and commercial
buildings. This is prime urban land which is expected to be attractive for
sucb private development. The profit from these sales would go into a Special
Account, to be established separately in the budget of the Municipality of
Tunis, for financing upgrading of buildings in Hafsia, and further upgrading
works in the Medina of Tunis. The Government agreed during negotiations that
this Special Account would be established, by January 1st, 1984, in a form
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). This scheme
represents an innovative approach to involving the private sector in the
renovation of an old part of the city, thus minimizing the cost to the
Government.
52.      The technical assistance program under the project would provide:
(i) 6 man/years of foreign expert services to strengthen MOH and ARRU in the
engineering and financial aspects of project design and in urban planning;
(ii) 11 man/years of fellowships for training abroad in municipal engineering,
planning and finance, and urban transport; and (iii) assistance to MOH in
carrying out preinvestment studies for the preparation of a possible fourth
urban development project, and the establishment of an urban data bank; and to
the Ministry of Transport and Communications in carrying out pre-investment
studies for developing urban transport sector policies, and preparing a
possible second urban transport project. The experts required under this



- 15 -
program would be employed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, and an
agreed timetable.
53.      Project Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the project is
estimated at $59.7 million, of which $24.6 million, or about 41 percent, is in
foreign -xchange. The local cost of $35.1 million includes taxes estimated at
$7 million. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 15 percent for
site infrastructure development and civil works.  No physical contingencies
have been included for housing credit, technical assistance, and project
administration. Price contingencies, totaling about 25 percent of base costs
plus physical contingencies, have been estimated on the basis of price
increases of 10 percent for 1982, 9 percent for 1983, and 8 percent for
subsequent years for all local costs, and of 8 percent for 1982 and 1983,
7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985, and 6 percent tbereafter for foreign
costs. Total contingencies would represent 40 percent of baseline costs. The
average cost of experts and consultant services, based on recent experience in
the country, and including fees, subsistence and travel, is estimated at
$11,000 per man/month. The proposed Bank loan of $25 million would cover the
foreign exchange cost and the $0.4 million front-end fee. The Government
would provide $22.7 million, project beneficiaries $7.6 million, and private
developers $4.8 million. Details of costs and financing are contained in the
Loan and Project Summary, at the beginning of this report.
54.      Project Implementation and Institutional Arrangements.  The
Municipalities of Tunis, La Goulette, Jendouba, Le Kef, and the District of
Tunis would delegate the ultimate responsibility for project implementation to
ARRU. The Government has agreed that a Municipality for Ettadhamen-Douar
Hicher would be created by May 31, 1985, but that the District of Tunis, wbicb
currently has jurisdiction over Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher, would continue
responsibility for project implementation on this site through project
completion (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). To strengthen the Municipalities'
implementation capacity, an understanding was reached during negotiations that
the Government would maintain an adequate staff in each Municipality under the
project, consisting of at least a secretary general, an engineer and a
financial analyst. The Municipalities would receive assistance from MOH and
ARRU; they would be responsible for the maintenance of roads, drainage, street
lighting and solid waste disposal, and would maintain public relations
activities to ensure community participation in the project.
55.      ARRU would be the chief project coordinating agency for project
implementation, and the liaison unit with the Bank; it would also coordinate
evaluation and reporting to the Bank. ARRU would acquire the land needed for
the project, and assist beneficiaries with housing designs and construction
techniques. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ARRU would
compensate, to the Bank's satisfaction, people displaced as a result of
upgrading works in the project sites (Project Agreement, Section 2.09). For
the upgrading component, ARRU would enter into agreements with contractors and
utility companies, and coordinate the operations of all concerned Ministries.
For the sites and services component, it would acquire the land and transfer
it, on behalf of the Municipalities, to AFH at cost. AFH would execute all
operations related to site development. For the Hafsia pilot operation, ARRU
would carry responsibility, on behalf of the Municipality of Tunis, for the
implementation of the upgrading program, as well as the first part of the new
construction program; the second part would be undertaken by private



- 16 -
developers. In addition to its President Director General and the three
Directors of its technical, administrative and socio-economic studies
departments, the staff of ARRU includes accountants and six engineers
responsible for monitoring operations in the five project sites. ARRU would
be further strengthened under the project's technical assistance program.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, under the technical
assistance program, it would employ, by September 30, 1983, an engineering
expert and an urban planner to assist in the detailed engineering, financial,
and construction supervision of project implementation (Project Agreement,
Section 2e02).
56.      Institutional arrangements under the project rely beavily on using
and strengthening existing institutions to facilitate the development of a
strong national institutional framework for the sector, and the replication of
upgrading and sites and services schemes in other parts of the country.
Several factors should help assure proper coordination of the various
institutions' activities, a key element for successful project implementa-
tion. In addition to its general coordinating role, ARRU would regularly
convene its Technical Coordination Committee, which includes representatives
of all technical agencies involved in the project, to monitor progress, ensure
effective coordination, and resolve possible difficulties. Issues requiring
policy decisions would be referred to the Inter-Ministerial Coordination
Committee, comprising representatives of MOE, MOH, MOINT and MOPF, created
under the Second Urban Development project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that these two Committees would be maintained (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.10). Also a number of interagency agreements between ARRU on the
one hand, and the Municipalities, the utility companies, and AFH on the other
hand, and between AFH and CNEL, defining the precise roles of each
institution, and their interrelationships in implementing the project, have
been reviewed and agreed with the Bank, and signed by all parties concerned.
57.      With regard to the flow of Bank funds, the loan would be made to the
Government at the Bank's variable interest rate, with a repayment period of 20
years, including 3 years grace. The Government would make about $18 million
of the Bank loan available as budgetary allocations to the public agencies
(ARRU, CNEL, and the utility companies) and the Ministries involved in the
project. Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Government would onlend $6.4
million to CPSCL at the current Bank lending rate of 11.43 percent per annum
for 20 years including three years of grace. CPSCL would lend these proceeds
of the Bank loan to Municipalities at cost for 20 years including two years of
grace. Simultaneously, CPSCL would lend at cost and under the same terms,
another $7.4 million it would borrow from the Government at 2 percent for
non-profit operations, and at 4 percent per annum for profit-making
operations, for X period of 20 years with 2 years grace. As a result, the
cost to the Municipalities of the combined Government and Bank funds would be
about 6.85 percent per annum. The risk of non-repayment would be borne by the
Government. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all necessary
action enabling the Municipalities under the project to borrow from CPSCL
would be taken by December 31, 1983, and that the lending agreements
(Conventions de Prgt) between each Municipality and CPSCL would be signed by
March 31, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.03(b) and 3.04). As CPSCL's funds
are managed by BDET (para. 36), to ensure that CPSCL can handle its increased
responsibility under the project, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the current CPSCL/BDET management agreement would be amended by September



-  17  -
30, 1983, to allow the creation, within BDET, of a CPSCL unit, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with appropriate staffing including an
economist, an engineer and a financial analyst, (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
58.      Under a Management Agreement with the Government (Convention de
Gestion), CNEL would manage about $4.8 million from the proceeds of the Bank
Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). This amount, combined with another $6
million received from the Government by way of budgetary allocations, would be
lent to beneficiaries under a sites and services/housing credit line (para.
49) for the purchase of a developed site, and the construction of a dwelling
througb self-help techniques. This linking of credits for the acquisition of
a developed site and housing construction represents an innovation in Tunisia
aimed at the timely provision of affordable serviced sites together with
construction loans. CNEL loans would be at 7 percent per annum for a term of
15 years with two years grace (Loan Agreement, Section 3.15). CNEL would
receive from the Government a management fee of 1 percent on its
disbursements, and an incentive fee of 2 percent on the amounts recovered.
These loans would cover 80 percent of the cost of the developed sites and
housing construction. Beneficiaries would be required to contribute a 20
percent downpayment to CNEL. The downpayments, as well as the first tranche
of the loans, representing up to 15 percent of the cost of developing/serviced
plots would be disbursed by CNEL and transferred to AFH. The beneficiary
would only pay interest during the period of site development (2 years). The
balance of each loan would be released to the beneficiary upon delivery by AFH
of the serviced plots, and would be drawn in portions as the dwelling
construction advances. Upon receipt of the developed plot, the beneficiary
would start repaying principal and interest over the remaining life of the
loan (13 years). The financial package would be based on affordability, plot
size and construction area. The risk of non-repayment by the eligible CNEL
subscribers (para. 62) would be borne by CNEL. For other beneficiaries, CNEL
will bear 5 percent of this risk and the balance would be borne by the
Government. Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and CPSCL (para. 57), and of the Management Agreement between the Government
and CNEL, would be conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01).
59.      Interest Rates.  The rates applied by commercial banks in Tunisia for
medium-term lending vary between 9.75 and 10.25 percent per annum, with the
exception of lending to export-oriented and regional projects, for which it is
between 7.75 and 8 percent. The rates currently charged in the housing sector
by CPSCL and CNEL are well below these levels. The Government has agreed
during negotiations that, as of December 31, 1983, and for the duration of the
project, it would review annually with the Bank the interest rates structure
in the housing sector, in the context of the prevailing general interest
rates, taking into consideration the cost of resources for the financial
intermediaries in the sector, and that, in the light of these reviews, it
would take appropriate measures including an increase in interest rates (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02). An understanding was reached on the objective to
reach positive rates by December 31, 1987. Interest rates under the project
are sligbtly below the projected inflation rates estimated at 9 percent in
1983, and 8 percent thereafter. They take into account the capacity to pay of
the Municipalities, and of the lower income target population, and its
willingness to accept the proposed terms. The fact that CNEL's project rates
would be higher than its regular rates should not affect the demand for funds



- 18 -
under the projecL, since CNEL's cheaper funds are only available to its
subscribers wbo bave to await the maturity of their savings contracts, while
project funds would be available immediately, under arrangements that ensure
the availability of affordable land together with the housing credit.
60.      Cost Recovery.  It is expected that about 78 percent of total project
costs would be recovered at a nominal interest rate of about 7 perccent. Part
of the costs of primary infrastructure, and the costs of community facilities
and institutional development would not be recovered. Of recoverable costs,
about two-thirds would be recovered directly from beneficiaries, and the
balance through local taxation. The cost of site development, secondary
infrastructure and upgrading works would be recovered through the Contribution
des-Riverains, a frontage tax administered by the Municipalities, which is
used as a channel of cost-recovery under the Second Urban Development project,
with repayment over 20 years at 7 percent interest per annum. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that these terms would be reflected in decrees
ensuring application of this tax by June 30, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07). An understanding was also reached during negotiations on the measures
to be taken by the Government to ensure adequate recovery. Connection costs
for water, sewerage and electricity would be recovered directly by the utility
companies at 9 percent annual interest over five years, with an option to pay
some or all of the amount due as a cash payment. As noted in para. 51, in
Hafsia, the Municipality of Tunis would construct some commercial buildings
and housing units on part of the upgraded vacant land to be rented or sold at
auction, and would also sell at auction the remainder of the same upgraded
vacant land to private developers. The Special Account to be funded from the
profits of these sales would contribute to the financing of the cost of
infrastructure works, and would ensure tbrough grants and/or loans the
replicability of the upgrading and construction operations in Hafsia, and in
the Medina as funds become available.
61.       Land Acquisition and-Legalization of Ownership.  Some of the land
needed for the project will have to be acquired, either by direct negotiation
or expropriation. Forty percent of the land in Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher, 25
percent in Hafsia, and 100 percent in Zghadia and Sidi Chrichi is
privately-owned. It would be a condition of disbursement for each of the
sites and services operations that all the land needed for that component in
the location is expropriated and made available (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) of
Loan Agreement). Because most of the works in upgrading areas are within the
right of way of existing roads, land acquisition is not expected to pose
problems. Some of the land for the sites and services components already
belongs to the Government; the first operations of the project would start
witb upgrading works in all five project sites. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that ARRU would acquire the land needed for the project,
in accordance with its procedures which permit rapid expropriation, and would
receive, by June 30, 1983, a recoverable advance allocation of $400,000 to
initiate the purchase of land (Loan Agreement, Section 3.13). A major factor
that encourages the maintenance and upgrading of housing is the provision of
secure tenure. Much of the land in project sites is not registered. Under
the project, titles would be issued upon request to plot holders in upgrading
areas after they have paid improvement charges. Municipalities would be
responsible for encouraging owners to register their land.



- 19 -
62.      Beneficiary Selection and Affordability.  The Municipality concerned
would prepare initial beneficiary lists, and would chair a Selection Committee
including representatives of ARRU, CNEL and AFH for the final selection of
beneficiaries for the 2,000 new plots (1,600 in sites and services areas, 400
infill plots in upgraded areas). Priority would be given to families whose
houses have been demolisbed under the upgrading component; then among families
living at the sites, to participants in the existing CNEL and FOPROLOS
programs up to 20 percent. The balance would be allotted to people who own no
house, and have a monthly income between TD 50-110 in 1981 value indexed to'
the guaranteed minimum wage increases. Households monthly incomes in the
project sites range from TD 55 to 135.  An agreement was reached during
negotiations on criteria and procedures for beneficiary selection (Loan
Agreement, Annex to Schedule 2).
63.      Overall about 77,000 people would benefit from services under the
project, of which 26 percent are below the absolute poverty level as defined
by the Bank. This includes people in the Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher area who,
while not participating directly in the upgrading or sites and services
programs, would still benefit from off-site infrastructure and utility service
improvements. Of the 2,000 project serviced plots, 62 percent would be
affordable to the urban poor. About 28,800 people, of wbich 31 percent are
below the absolute poverty level, would benefit directly from the upgrading
operations. Housebolds who could afford the average charges under this
component range between 86 and 92 percent of all families in the project
area. About 10,700 people would benefit directly from the sites and services
and housing credits, of which 62 percent are below the absolute poverty
level. The cheapest plot option together with the bousing loan repayment
would be affordable to more than 90 percent of the population in Tunis, and to
85 percent of the population of the two sites in Le Kef and Jendouba. In the
Hafsia operation, upgraded housing would be offered to low-income families,
while new bousing on the developed in-fill plots would be offered to higher
income families. The least-cost option (30m2 of net babitable space in
upgraded buildings) would be affordable to 88 percent of the population of
Hafsia.
64.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Civil works in the upgrading and sites
and services areas of the project are dispersed over five sites, would be
contracted separately for each main category of works over a period of 3-4
years, and would be executed separately through eacb Municipality. It would
not be practical to aggregate most of the works into large contract packages
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), with the exception of
contracts over $800,000 at Ettadhamen-Douar Hicher. These would be procured
through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. With the exceptions noted
above, all civil works would be contracted through local competitive bidding
according to procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Given the
difficult site conditions in Hafsia (narrow winding streets with limited
access for modern construction equipment, lack of storage areas) upgrading
work for infrastructure and buildings, aggregating about $1.5 and $2 million
respectively, would be executed by the Municipality of Tunis on force account,
tbrough small-size easily manageable operations, with prior Bank approval.
Procurement procedures will be carried out by ARRU. Execution of water,
sewerage and electricity works not covered by ICB would be handled according
to the procurement procedures of the three national utility companies
concerned, SONEDE, ONAS, and STEG, which are satisfactory to the Bank,



- 20 -
including, where necessary, througb force account, after approval by the
Bank. The procurement of building materials to be purchased through bousing
credit loans would be left to the initiative of beneficiaries. The large
number of small contracts under the project, and their similarity would make
prior review of all contracts unnecessary. Therefore, only draft procurement
documents for civil works based on ICB, and locally procured contracts greater
then $350,000, which would represent about 50 percent of all contracts, would
be forwarded to the Bank for prior review and approval.
65.      The project would be implemented over seven years with disbursements
expected through June 1990. This schedule is consistent with the disbursement
profile for Bank loans in Tunisia. The proposed loan would be disbursed
against (i) 45 percent of total expenditures for civil works and construction
loans; (ii) 30 percent of total expenditures for the sites and services/
housing credit line; (iii) 80 percent of total expenditures for experts and
consultant services and fellowships under the technical assistance program.
The front-end fee would be witbdrawn by, and paid to the Bank at loan
effectiveness.
66.      Audiin.  Separate accounts would be set up by all participating
institutions for project transactions. The project accounts of the
Municipalities and CNEL, as well as sub-accounts documenting withdrawals based
on certificates of expenditure, would be audited by the Contr8le General des
Finances, according to procedures acceptable to the Bank. The acounts of
CPSCL, ARRU and AFH would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank. ONAS, STEG and SONEDE would keep separate project accounts which
would be audited as part of their annual audits as required by the Bank under
ongoing projects with these agencies. Assurances on the above arrangements
were obtained during negotiations (Loan Agreement Section 4.04; and Project
Agreement, Section 4.02).
67.      Benefits.  The project is expected to have a major impact on the
housing sector in Tunisia by providing new housing, and improving the living
conditions of the target population groups. It would meet about 21 percent of
the urban poor new demand for shelter in the project sites between 1983 and
1988, strengthen the agencies involved in the sector, improve their
collaboration and the coordination of their activities, and establish
technical, administrative and financial systems and schemes that can be
replicated in other parts of the country. It would help resolve a major
bottleneck in the urban sector: the lack of affordable serviced land, which
contribute to the spread of squatter settlements. The internal economic rate
of return (IERR) for the project has been calculated at 20 percent.
Quantifiable benefits are based on estimates of increased rental values for
housing as a result of upgrading, de-densification and rehabilitation of
dwellings, and additional rents from the new residential and commercial
buildings, sites and services and house extensions. They do not include the
technical assistance component or off-site infrastructure at Ettadhamen-Douar
Hicher, representing 16 percent of total project costs, whose benefits are
difficult to quantify. Sensitivity analysis shows that eitber a 10 percent
increase in costs, or a 10 percent decrease in benefits would drop the IERR to
18 percent; a combination of both would drop it to 16 percent; and a one-year
delay in benefits would result in an IERR of 17 percent.



- 21 -
68.      Risks.  MOH and ARRU are new and, although their staff is highly
committed to the project, it is inexperienced, as is the staff of the
Municipalities, particularly in the Northwest Region. This is a risk that the
technical assistance program under the project has been designed to offset by
temporarily filling gaps in present skills, while training Tunisian staff to
take over operations upon completion of technical assistance contracts. The
risk that the complexity of project components, especially the Hafsia
renovation scheme, could delay the project would be minimized through close
and intensive supervision, especially during the early years of project
execution, with careful attention to coordinating the activities of
participating agencies. In the case of the Hafsia component, its
implementation through small-size easily manageable operations, would ensure
adequate flexibility. Finally, the risk that land acquisition delays could
affect the implementation of the sites and services component is minimized by
the powers given to ARRU to expropriate land under emergency procedures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the Project Agreement between the Bank and ARRU, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for urban development
projects. Features of special interest are referred to in the text and listed
in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are the
signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CPSCL,
and of the Management Agreement between the Government and CNEL (para. 58).
It would be a condition of disbursement for each of the sites and services
components that the needed land is expropriated and made available (para. 61).
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
November 24, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'.
TOTAL            163.6                                                     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      75.2                                MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 230.0       380.0    13100               1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     165.2       289.7    589.9                 713.5                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4221.0       5127.0   6354.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0        43.5      51.7                 47.3                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        17.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                       25.8        31.3      37.9                 35.8                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     60.7        72.9      82.4                420.9                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.4        46.2      41.4                 44.3                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        50.0      54.9                 52.4                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2         3.8       3.7                  3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /c      1.91c     2.1                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN                              3.2         3.8       3.9                  4.6                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.9         41.8      34.9                 41.2                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0         14.6       9.2                 12.2                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.2       2.6                  2.9                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        29.2    180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         10.0      21.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0        96.0    132.0                 100.4                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.2        88.2    115.1/d               108.5                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.8        56.6      75.171               71.9                    66.0
OF WHICH ANTMAL AND PULSE       12.9        13.5      22.77Td              18.0                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     36.1        24.5       9.8                 15.1                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.1         54.2      60.2                 56.9                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                     158.9       131.3      90.0                104.3                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        49.0      70.0/e               59.1                     65.6
URBAN                               ..          ..      63.07;;              83.1                     78.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      77. 071              39.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        62.0        ..                   ..                     59.3
URBAN                               ..       100.0        ..                   ..                    75.3
RURAL                               *-        34.0      60.0/,                 ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10026.1      5934.0   3576.2                4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       727.5   1167.8                1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            405.2       409.1    463.7                 641.7                   477.4
URBAN                            277.3/f     302.8    340.7/e               538.3                   679.8
RURAL                           1040.97?    1269.3   1275.871              2403.3                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        24.1      25.0/e               25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.1/
URBAN                               ..         S.1        **
RURAL                               ..         5.1L/
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         3.2
URBAN                               ..         2.7 7i
RURAL.                                         3.6        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        24.0 /g
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



- 23 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
- MOST RECEH  ESI aT)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0        100.0     102.0                  88.7                    104.3
MALE                  88.0       121.0      119.0                 104.5                    106.4
FEMALE                43.0        80.0       85.0                  72.5                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         23.0      25.0                  39.7                      41.3
MALE                  19.0        33.0       31.0                  49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                 5.0        13.0       19.0                  29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 23.5           11.1      35.0                  10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            61.1         47.5      39.2                  34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                          15.8         27.8      20.4                  23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.5         24.O0/    62.0                  43.3                      79.1
CONSUMITION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.5         13.0      18.3/g                17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         40.3         75.7      94.8                 131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1         14.0      48.4                  44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  19.0         16.0      43.8                  31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..       1.5/d                  1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1137.9       1214.8    1631.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    6.0          7.7       8.3                  10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0         50.0      34.0                  42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         21.0      33.0                  27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.0         23.7      25.7                   26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 50.2         44.2      46.5                   46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                3.3          3.6       4.3                   5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8         2.1        1.8                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..      17.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..      42.0o7h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..       6.0/.h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..      15.07o.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     204.0/d               279.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      97.071               178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     193.0/d               403.6                    518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     193.07W               285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      20.0/d                22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      15.d7W                30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1976;
/f 1962; /g 1966; /h 1975.
May, 1982



- 24 -                                                                        ANNEX I
DEIIIN FSOCIAL INDICATOPS                                                          Page    3   of   6
Uot-   Al,hagh toe date arc drawn Er.. .o..r it       eset..wily judged the watt ashtia   eadrein, It should 00c   oe-otd chat they say cotb Icir
CatIocb I    osprnbi  beta.p. of the Laos of stadstidaed defetinnei and concept  used. bY different  ~ ownties_ Otohci0th.aa    h  dIta ore  tons-
th...e.ne, uaft.1 odst         raso  naaiud.  odt te  td.. and oh--wo irts  certin saint diffrwe   ewencIcos
T'he  eeet  gnn...at  (Li tIe sas  .o.tr  groo  of sh. aubject COuItry  -te 121 a .-tntY group with  -osebt hihgter . averge inco-  than the conp                      rop
of te  sujectooavry  (xcep  fr "igh I.,..          ii  opcteo   grouP where  'Middle II-on  North Afrca woo Nidld  East" OI chosen because ofsrne
'ajrIsy of oh   .. cosisi     ru  hoeIdartfor tha  lltonor               to e  hecvrgof Counerin    -.ag the coicoowdepo I    toe sosiai ityot  at
AREA (,ho....nd sqAn.)                                                                           PonLation oar HnPital ced -   -oc, -bhan, and total    Pcctco -otaL,
Ttl-Totlwofc an   oen1ao  bodat   o   nadstn    979 dana.                                    oron  addrrl  dinided by theor  rep-tl- voeb- ot hoopical hcdo
ccroolcra  - tciac   of  Wgtooubc I.crbce   50tsoaiyo   eaoci                                     vcab  or public codd   p Ioc    _rew%np         pe  aoo    osia   o 
to - oe  ycnoe   not woo k-then 0odwort  lit falI-s  1979 tans,                                lbibiratont eeli  ter.-  (o -ros    ar   nolbohei  ptaen                 _fta  n
loP PEh CAPITA (US$) - GNP Per- -wpbts  eise   aorrtmcatprbos...                                   dbib  0r1   r  too boclcde.  Porn  hospst.I.. hon.yror  Inlue  na
buutd  y  es  covrion.  -Ihod Is W.rld took Aobee (197g-0 ass)  1902.                        so   cdolcnesctpraetywetd   cysIcrysic tanl (hot-
EOEERGY CbNlbfpTbcc PER CAnFo - dons_l oo_aoyijo  ot                                                      Ibyrn    nrytnlcobprpseohncnoasioucOiopiopO            coIhnia
orbo 001 by clogros  at 00s  ecuiobent pr                                                ...a.... 90.ad199cetr. Iperiai-o   oo-piialo  oCrId o .  radonyonn  cci
data.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Aneag  tine of "Pi~l  Oauenld(rr...pe   horod) - cc,ots,co  uoI
Taioanosg   ".. oonc ies  100,  90,en.1.    dste   JbsYboue19oilEnr70ssietrat puOpoINs
Population'j. bnyar0022- Current1  pRoacio  poitbe   r   ae   s  91heo   ss                                      a Amoe inl  alt.. .rI,adrrsdooldconn  os
totl ppaanio  y an  nd  nsaadther  arsliy ae  ertiby rte.        lelbng. rspntisl.  bentins  wo u o  nw-pr n nesftrcorenan
Proiosio  poraser  forsaralbt  rot. topris  ofthreLnl'ec-                      nouidpra
boCisC   prseyo   it    .orsbgwt   oooyepropc  onio                                     doseeI-Pectbobl  (crcet o                I.elnsl-toa,uhI Cod  oa
breL  ad  oslebis  sprtno   sablibo   a  7.1pata   Te  ap-          ononIonal d--llo. Ais blrrob               h  bitng.uarer  so perodsage
iner  fo   etiIyteecs ao   he Isd es aeosop   eolha ..o toa. srdn   ard  uo                                             delnors _oinnI....
"ais costnt   TOts be etIIss  ocl ater -            itenoy  oase  deli,e ontIr    twloeppltos   orab    rldscior                                                  Ohl
Lo fh er 0000. odtet      ae  foabwao  friltesS              norp..-.oovevnboiItoa.                                   b  ndfeao     osanoochv;sotlr
vine wil  r_rbd-aniy of. .l to .7 yor  of sg;  oorspeooeIoI                                                                                              e   regteac
Po  tlsso  Desty cc.tht. .ccedd. ~ .
ho yearn, and rtired  16  reara  nd ceer   an . prethgn  of sl-s r.pp-             corresponding ben...ds._. _
lain;197  172i. ad18  dos             ft.,bsro   ae  pret i                                                             lsrcacss(est   ra   n ne
,h,ooodeehdt )erol-cnl-dnolgwebrtso   oo  sla-                                                 O     percen tage o  icta alhl popticny aged 11 yeas ad oet
yearpopaacuo  fo  1992-60  1992-7. an   97-0
popolatos; 196. 1970.and i9g   sts. "IiLiIttary eethte
pocain   902.  1970. aoa190  data.h  pbroIalcoona- to genrl. I pabicpr  iosoo boaLcls                                                               Geoluo ?.0t
Eabr  Lnon-iontr. fasice                  - 7thcans Y-cnelnreoaopos                           TVeeirsnr chasan  rrslbvp _T  reni..eoa  bra                        -sa  h
PaioL itrc -thsors Loreso   arndws)-  ecnaaofere                                        ntareodinyas                 Ia regicroIf of TVl nese          i wash --fct.
pubhicccdo  dap12ns  psn7  l   no r ..rl.g eoce   ra.I  i   osie
770ua Ofb idEP  -so.be  'd5iy   fi   yper  as beast fourtid...e.
(eden l of oo   1r9bcoio1 pe -apts 19969-tb-oO)   t- loden of por        .  aita aosel         nn.t..     lOtofneoa   aIfsprya   todo    h   ucr
icatead of nopool ohiob ars edinle and coonein sciri~Se ics (e.g. onsfe  andd." dt
ten ore roc bcdedb.  .tgnregate predscoico of nech cooos~  iaead on      I iOt               ICII
Ocois  andcane Ih        coi   Snswpie   caIs eselfed  sns,P,Ie(edn)      ensbao  frd npecong  o   otlIse  trs
hoceehld bwal; 1961-b, 1970 no   b977 0late                                           1902  1970 and- 1980lena.
Per car icc scrohly of rorohrs   e  a>-Pneiceecopeospc                                          riorsoton   ecnc-nti,al,ndf ae- ric shnr
Pet soppitof 9fond pe  day   Ne   cpyo   odb  df9dsbn.i-aoiiye.ss                                               oede   oa,wl,al0naelbrfrew
Ocrbltoo  SRvey;  I9bh    97= 19      1977l.  hoo                                            0tettl060fo.. i
Cer.d caiadrni)sp             -ro  Asinni ad- Pue-Ppsi-suplyof  oolfe
noel  ros einba  nd puses o                                                                            (rsepe   ay!1616.  97had197  anAiDUM DORyiTD
treelasInrior -le lietalt  1960  1970.t and18tlin                                             fdoueois
.fd.TtPr5T ta                                                                                              is d                  P-P
ubirth;196.  (9(0dft cod i. 19   f  hcto _                                                   coli    wl  eLoeprnlcbcosierweucoio
tlofo trcaic  notel (Dccoaot-  oalaoh   of...  ... Pf.....       ta. code  co  por            Osene  hclc   onryIow                   Le -e (Itrs het.aio  -ubo       osoni  -
ofae  e  tosndlnebrt0   96.190cc   92  aa.Osioepoatyitd                                                        oolO  ta    ooIrolboowicaehua
lose   o  ae str(crov  o   nnlsivL-toa,  oa.an   url-  ue                         atiuoebyadcat  le  po  esetalco-od   reu9e8.                           s  c
he  o  pope  s   Cs. cobso, ad rural   nas -teeonbOeooest tat                             foob
YaeapL    bnue   ree  eraaanr   rocaidhh  oocentd                                          EcnidOioiePnoyIcnitl(Sdpr~cu      ra  n   oe 
oensahotafrsroecehreoosnoin.coooicoohbls                                             unoeaiepo.cooosbceu   oethtofoer5yIrapt
perceotogesof i hair cenpeoIcspybtcs:achnrapbo                                        poseimwa  mosa   b   oor.             spIceIsIrvdfo   n   ua
tFPeIo oopc    otd  o   asta   02snr  foooa   a   olvlec  aos In for                                                            ll higho  -oc  of  --i-ug   orhaota
Ycoelereda ne      r hemp  oa thr reaesc d a  -oso   Oa   oe.bro            ra                           IIieta  Pouain- h.daooePnrybonIol(eon
roaeoohisarteeoood  iopl  teasoho haesaif  or  . wahcr  of thehoseol             se  orl-Pecn  c   oulso   (uhno";                  sl             TV0 are-
loceoo o trrecsDisroaL (p  roes of oculoioo  -                                                                       h.c..ucoSh.ad.rual 
1cr inetalian boos.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                                            ..~d.
Popoltinoper Oreuc Porsa   - Ppolaioo  1P-1  byeitbr ofpraY-pin                                                                             Oa. 1997          
nale and  enla  grecacts noss  waiaad vosbiycnlOcl  irnsan
Ouneiso asaibidortas.I-_t.(.g.   ff



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  31,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                             (at 1980 prices)
(million USI                          Actual                                            Projected
Indicator                     at current prices)
1981            1977    1978    1979       1980   1981         1982    1983      1984    1985    1986    1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /1              8,224.0           5.3      7.1      7.1       6.0    5.0         3.8      7.3       6.0     5.8      5.6      5.3
Agriculture                          1,111.2         -10.2      4.5    -4.8        6.1    9.0        -4.3    11.5       4.0      3.9      3.7      3.5
Industry                             2,663.6           9.8      9.0    11.9       9.9    2.1          3.9      7.5      7.3      7.0      6.7      6.4
Services                             3,329.3           5.6      7.4     8.7        3.9    6.4         6.5      6.3       6.1     5.9      5.7      5.5
Consumption                            6,350.7          10.4      5.8      4.6       9.9    7.0         7.0      4.1       7.4     6.3      4.1      5.3
Gross investment                       2,539.5           6.9    12.9       3.9       5.8    9.2        -5.0      8.8       1.1     1.0      1.8      3.1
Exports of goods and NFS               3,475.1           5.5      8.2    23.3        0.7    2.0         4.4      8.3       6.9     8.0    13.4       8.2
Imports of goods and NFS               4,141.4          16.7      9.6    14.3       7.2    8.4          4.0      3.5      6.2       5.8     7.8      6.9
Gross national product                 8,292.8           5.8      7.9      7.5      6.5    5.2          3.6      7.2       5.9     5.5      5.3      5.2
Gross national savings                 1,942.1          -7.2    14.8    21.8       -7.2   -0.8        -19.4    17.8      -2.0      0.5      7.9      4.6
PRICES
GDP deflator                                            76.0    80.1    88.3    100.0  109.7
Exchange rate                                            2.33    2.40    2.46       2.47   2.02
Share of GDP at market prices (x)                                      Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                                (at constant prices)
1971      1976       1981       1986       1987       1991            1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87         1986-91
Gross domestic product /1  100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0              8.8         6.1         5.7         6.0          4.9
Agriculture               18.8       18.1       13.5      13.0       12.7       12.1               8.2         0.7         3.6         5.3 /2       3.5
Industry                  20.6      25.9       32.4       32.4       32.7       33.7              10.2         8.5         6.5         7.0          5.8
Services                  47.7      42.9       40.5       41.6       41.7       41.9               8.3         6.4         6.1         5.9          5.1
Consumption                   82.0       77.5       77.2       78.1       78.0      74.5               9.6         7.5         5.8         5.4          4.0
Gross investment              20.0       30.4       30.9       24.6       24.1       23.8             14.1         7.7         1.4         3.1          4.2
Exports of goods and NFS    23.8         29.1       42.3       44.1      45.3       46.5               5.6         7.6         8.2         9.0          6.1
Imports of goods and NFS    25.8         37.1       50.4      46.8       47.5       44.7              13.1        11.2         5.5         6.0          4.0
Gross national product        99.6       98.7      100.8       99.6      99.4       99.1               8.5         6.6         5.5         5.8          4.9
Net factor income             -0.4       -1.3        0.8       -0.4       -0.6      -0.9                -           -           -           -            -
Gross national savings        17.6       21.1       23.6       18.0       17.9       20.6              2.9         3.6         0.2         5.5          8.0
As x of GDP
(at current prices)
1971      1976       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                21.4       24.2       30.0
Current expenditure                                            18.9       18.5      22.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      2.5        5.7        7.8
Capital expenditure                                             6.9       11.4       10.6
Foreign financing                                               3.2        1.7        1.4
1971-76         1976-81         1981-86          1982-87         1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (M)                                            8.4             6.6              5.5             5.8             4.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%1                                 5.4             4.0             2.8              3.1             2.2
ICOR                                                           2.7             5.5             5.2             4.8              5.3
Marginal savings rate                                        24.0             25.2            20.6             23.0            30.2
Import elasticity                                              1.51            1.84            0.96             1.0             0.82
/I GDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
/2 This growth rate reflects the decline expected in 1982; a least square growth
rate for the same period (1982-87) is 4.9, but the long-tern projections for
agriculture are better reflected in the growth rates for the individual years
shown above.
EMENA CP II-C
July 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  31,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                                     (at 1980 Prices)
(million USg                               Actual                                               Projected
Indicator                  at current prices)
1981               1977    1978    1979    1980    1981                1982     1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                2,434.2                9.7     9.6    20.7       0.8      3.7             3.6      8.8      6.7      8.2    16.0      8.4
Crude oil                       1,249.7               12.4    12.8    12.4        0.2    -5.0              1.1     2.7    -1.8       1.8    -0.1       3.7
Other primary                      125.8               4.9   -15.7    25.1   -11.9    -3.3                11.6      8.7      8.8     9.0      8.9      7.7
Manufactures                    1,058.7                6.8    10.4    33.3        3.6    16.3              5.3    14.9    14.3    13.2    28.1/2  11.0
Merchandise imports                3,801.5               14.1    10.7    15.7       7.7      9.5             3.7      3.0      6.0      5.6     7.8      7.1
Food                               421.4               9.6      7.7    39.6    -6.8        9.4             2.9      1.1      2.7     5.3      5.0    -4.8
Petroleum                          756.6              13.8    15.1       9.7    13.5    13.9              18.5     0.6    11.3       8.2    21.7/2  13.8
Machinery and equipment            979.5               5.5    15.4    -2.6    -4.4    32.9               -7.1    -1.0    -0.7        0.0      0.0      7.7
Others                          1,644.0               21.6      6.5    24.9    15.3    -2.3                4.4      6.7      7.9     7.1      5.6      5.9
Price Index                                           Price Index
PRICES
Export price index                                    54.8    58.7    75.5   100.0   118.6               117.4   122.5   131.6   141.8   152.0   163.5
Import price index                                    72.6    76.6    85.3   100.0   116.8               127.4   135.6   147.6   160.2   172.2   184.3
Terms of trade index                                  75.5    76.6    88.5   100.0   101.5                92.1    90.3    89.2    88.5    88.3    88.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                               Average Annual Increase (Y)
(at current prices)                                        (at constant prices)
1971    1976    1981    1986    1987    1991                1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87         1986-91
Exports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                    4.1         8.7         8.6         9.6          5.2
Crude oil                           24.5    40.9    53.7    36.3    35.2    30.7                   4.6         6.3         0.7         1.3         -0.1
Other primary                       19.2    13.4      5.2      5.6      5.5      5.5              -5.4        -1.2         9.4         8.6           5.8
Manufactures                        56.3    45.7    41.1    58.1    59.3    63.7                   6.4        13.6        14.9        16.2           7.7
Imports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   10O.0   100.0                  13.1         11.5         5.2         5.9          3.9
Food                                21.2    12.3    11.1    11.0        9.8      6.8               0.6        10.9         3.4         1.8         -5.3
Petroleum                            3.9    11.1    19.9    22.9    24.9    31.0                  29.2        13.2        11.8        10.9          8.6
Machinery and Equipment             30.1    31.9    25.8    17.9    17.9    13.2                  13.5        10.5        -1.8         1.2         -1.0
Others                              44.8    44.7    43.2    48.2    47.4    49.0                  10.6        12.9         6.3         6.6          4.8
Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with                      Share of Trade with
industrial Countries (W)             Developing Countries (2)             Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (2)
1970     1975      1980              1970      1975     1980                   1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                   62.6      48.6       n.a.             23.4     41.4       n.a.                  14.0    10.0       n.a.
Imports                                   62.9      67.1       n.a.            33.7      25.7       n.a.                   3.4      7.2     n.a.
/1 Constant price data at 1980 prices.
/2  Increase in refining capacity.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1982



-   27  -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US at current prices)
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita: t1,420 (1981)
Actual /1                                                 Projected
1971      1976       1979        1980      1981             1982       1983       1986      1987        1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods A services                   -57.4    -417.0    -356.0    -472.6    -607.5               -934.4    -893.3  -1,171.4 -1,265.7   -1,258.7
Exports of goods h services                     469.4   1,479.5   3,137.5   3,912.3   3,902.4             4,120.5   4,680.2   7,403.0  8,546.4   13,632.1
Imports of goods & services                     526.8   1,896.5   3,493.5   4,384.9   4,509.9             5,054.9   5,673.5   8,574.4  9,812.1   14,890.8
Net transfers /2                                   52.0       52.7        61.0     100.0        36.4            32.4       32.4       24.3      24.0        24.0
Current account balance                            -5.4    -364.3    -295.0    -372.6    -571.1               -902.0    -860.9  -1,147.1 -1,241.7   -1,234.7
Direct private investment                          27.6      102.6       50.9      236.0      354.6            400.0      300.0      400.0    400.0        500.0
MLT loans (net)                                     55.3      167.9     494.2       323.9     188.0            502.0      651.0      916.3  1,010.9        994.7
Official                                         59.2      130.4      198.5      270.9      262.2            434.4      416.1      423.6    476.1        690.0
Private                                          -3.9       37.5      295.7       53.0      -74.2             67.6      234.9     492.7    534.8         304.7
Other capital                                      13.7        55.1    -126.2    -122.4        134.2              -          -          -         -
Change in reserves                                -91.2        38.7    -123.9      -64.9    -105.7                -       -90.2    -169.2   -169.2        -260.0
International reserves                            114.8      304.5      415.5      455.7      568.6            568.6      658.8   1,087.4  1,256.6    2,176.6
Reserves as months of imports                       2.6         2.2        1.6        1.4        1.6             1.4        1.4        1.5       1.5         1.7
Actual /1                                                  Pro jected
1971     1976        1979      1980      1981              1982       1983       1986       1987       1991
GROSS DISBURSEME.NTS
Official grants                                     35.5       50.2       50.7      41.5       26.3             32.4       32.4       24.3       24.0       24.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                  105.2      229.5      643.8      535.1    514.9              842.9   1,048.4   1,485.1   1,689.7   2,247.1
Concessional                                       61.0      104.0      154.5      217.5    284.1              343.8      326.2      284.4      309.2      427.2
Bilateral                                        52.8       95.1      153.7      197.3    277.6              256.6      264.6      238.6      255.2      337.6
IDA                                               4.8        8.9        0.2        1.0       0.6               1.0         -          -          -          -
Other multilateral                                3.4        0.0        0.6       19.2        5.9             86.2       61.6       45.7       54.0       89.6
Non-concessional                                    44.2      125.5     489.3       317.6    230.8             499.1      722.2   1,200.7   1,380.5   1,819.9
Private                                          28.8       60.1      377.6      191.4    117.3              294.2      475.6      801.5      918.7   1,080.7
Official export credits                           3.2         9.9      42.6        52.5     36.3              76.2       96.3      214.5      268.5      522.3
IBRD                                             12.2       25.3       55.4       51.1      53.5              83.6      123.2      155.1      159.9      173.X
Other multilateral                                 -        30.2        13.7       22.6     23.7              45.1       27.1       29.6       33.4       43.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                    619.5   1,166.2   2,996.4   3,188.8  3,370.7               4,024.2   4,675.3   7,360.9   8,371.9  12,611.8
Official                                        440.0      971.6   1,830.7   2,024.0  2,280.3             2,769.0   3,185.2   4,423.2   4,899.3   7,422.2
IBRD                                           39.3      127.9      232.0      269.0    303.8             345.3      426.6      725.8      811.9   1,049.5
IDA                                            21.1       64.1       67.3       67.9      67.9             68.9        68.1       65.3      64.1        58.2
Other                                         379.6      779.6   1,531.4   1,687.1  1,908.6             2,352.8   2,690.5   3,632.1   4,023.3   6,314.5
Private                                         179.5      194.6   1,165.7   1,164.8  1,090.4              1,255.2   1,490.1   2,937.7   3,472.5   5,189.6
Undiabursed debt                                  352.5   1,109.5   1,694.6   1,685.5  1,170.6               1,539.9   1,515.1   1,851.4   2,143.4   3,036.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                        69.8        98.6      308.8     432.7    547.6              567.6      642.4      991.5   1,177.9   2,037.2
Interest                                         19.9       36.9      159.2      221.5    220.7             226.6      245.0      422.6      499.2      784.9
Payments as % exports                               14.9        6.7        9.8       10.9     13.9              13.8       13.7       13.4       13.8       14.9
Payments as 2 GNP                                   4.1          2.2       4.3        5.1       6.6              6.1        5.9        6.1        6.3        6.8
Average interest rate of new Loans (Z)               4.9        5.4        7.1        7.1       6.7              7.2        8.0        8.2        7.3        7.4
Official                                          4.6        4.3        5.6        6.2        -                 -          -          -          -          -
Private                                           6.1        7.9        9.8        11.2       -                 -          -          -          -          -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)              23.3        16.6       15.8       17.3     19.6              16.7       15.2       14.5       14.9       15.0
Official                                         26.2        20.4       19.4       19.1        -                -          -          -          -          -
Private                                          13.8         8.6       9.2        9.4        -                 -          -          -          -          -
As x of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (I)
Amortization due within 5 years                                             36.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                            64.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (I)
Interest due within first year                                               4.5
/1 Preliminary estimates for 1981.
/2 Including grants.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1992



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1982)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                                   Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                    Cancellation)
Number       Year            Borrower                       Purpose                              Bank       IDA c/  Undisbursed
Thirty-one Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                    249.85      69.96
1068         1974      Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.20                   2.39
1088         1975      Republic of Tunisia            Urban Sewerage                             28.00                    1.45
1155         1975      Republic of Tunisia            Third Education                             8.60                   4.14
1188         1975      Republic of Tunisia             Second Highways                           28.00                  15.18
1340         1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                   12.00                   1.45
1431         1977      Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                    42.00                   12.27
1445         1977      SONEDE                          Fourth Water Supply                        .1.00                   7.88
1504         1977      BDET                            Development Finance Company               30.00                   2.b1
1505         1977      Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development           5.00                    1.75
1601         1978      Republic of Tunisia            Rural Roads (Third Highways)               32.00                  23.47
1675         1979      Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Sewerage                      26.50                  21.21
1702         1979      SONEDE                         Fifth Water Supply                         25.00                   5.78
1705         1979      Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Development                   19.00                  16.06
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Fisheries                           28.50                  24.25
1796         1980      Republic of Tunisia            Southern Irrigation                        25.00                  24.03
1797         1980      Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                   42.50                  16.41
1841         1980      Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Highways                            36.50                  35.4b
1864         1980      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz        Second Natural Gas Pipeline                37.00                  26.84
1885         1980      Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                    30.00                  28.19
1961         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                           26.00                  25.97
1969         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industry Development           30.00                  30.00
1997         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Northwest Rural Development                24.00                  24.00
2003         1981      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricit6 et du Gaz        Third Power                                41.50                  41.47
2005         1981      Republic of Tunisia             Health and Population                      12.50                 12.50
2012         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Textile Rehabilitation                     18.60                  17.09
2052         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Grain Distribution and Storage             42.00                  42.00
2108 a!      1982      Republic of Tunisia            Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)                35.50                  35.50
2113 a!      1982      BDET                           Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                      30.50
2134 a!      1982      SONEDE                          Sixth Water Supply                        30.50                  3u.50
2157 a/      1982      Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                    22.00                  22.00
2197 b/      1982      Republic of Tunisia            Technical Assistance                        4.50                   4.50
TOTAL                                                                  1,056.25      69.96      587.05
Of which has been repaid                                                 110.21       6.91
Total now outstanding                                                    946.04      63.05
Amount Sold                            14.33
of which has been repaid              13.18                               1.15
Total now held by Bank and IDA c/                                        944.89      63.05
Total Undisbursed                                                        587.05                 587.05
a/ Not yet effective
h/  Signed on October 29, 1982; not yet effective
c/ Prior to exchange rate adjustement



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of September 30, 1982) a/
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligator                      Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                     Fertilizers              2.0    1.5        3.5
1966      Societe Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.                 0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1969      COFIT (Tourism)                Dev. Finance Co.         8.0    2.2       10.2
1970      Societ4 Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.                 0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1973      Societe Touristique            Tourism                  1.6    0.3        1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975      Societe d'Etudes et            Tourism                  2.5    0.6        3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974      Industries Chimiques          'Chemicals                        0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978      BDET                           Dev. Finance Co.                 1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                14.1    7.6       21.7
Less Cancellations,                                     9.3    1.8       11.1
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                   4.8    5.8       10.6
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                       0.0    0.0        0.0
a/ In addition, IFC approved on June 17, 1982 (but has not yet signed) a
$38.3 million loan package to COFIT of which about $20 million equivalent
is from IFC's own account.



- 30 --
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 1068:        Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974;  Date of Effectiveness:  September 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are complete.
However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources due to
limited distribution hours, lack of on-farm development, and poor water
management.   Land reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984. In the Nebbana area, rehabilitation investments bave been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities
was less than originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not
built because of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was
to construct and manage it. About $0.5 million of funds allocated for
credit are expected not to be used and to be cancelled after the Closing
Date. Land consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be completed by
mid-1983. Production of off-season vegetables under greenhouses is
encouraging.
Ln. 1088:        First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project is now completed. Its major achievement is the
cleaning up of the Lake of Tunis where, before the project, more than half
of the sewage collected in Tunis was discharged with little or no
treatment. Under this project, the sewer system in the central area of
Tunis has been recalibrated, one existing treatment plant was rehabilitated
and extended, and two additional treatment plants were erected. In
addition, a canal along the northern bank of the Lake has been dug and
collects today all stormwater and sewage which used to overflow under heavy
rains. The major benefits of the project are the improvement of the
environment and of the sanitary situation of Tunis, and the related release
of land around the Lake which is now developed by a governmental agency.
Ln. 1155:        Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
I/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. As a result, the Bank loan was decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6
million, to cover the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project.
Implementa_ion of the project is proceeding satisfactorily according to the
revised schedule, with a slight delay of about three months in construction
works.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Hammamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed.   The remaining construction works on
other roads are well-advanced, although a short extension of the Closing
Date will be required to complete works on Lot 5, whose contractors went
bankrupt. Alternative arrangements for these works have been agreed. The
Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of
expropriation will not be undertaken as part of the project. All studies
under the project bave been completed and their results are being
implemented. A loan balance, due to appreciation of the dollar since loan
approval, may be cancelled.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
About 89 percent of the loan amount is disbursed. Subloans to
commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors are fully disbursed.
Subloans to small and medium farmers are fully committed and expected to be
fully disbursed by the Loan's Closing Date. Disbursements for subloans to
farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm plantations have
begun. Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in progress and
plantation is also progressing satisfactorily for three of the six
associations. However, drilling of artesian wells for the remaining three
associations is suffering some delays, and the category may not be fully
disbursed before the Closing Date.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is smoothly
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The first



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
filling-up of the reservoir has progressed well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation by mid-1983. After some initial delays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible.  A 6 km
section was commissioned in June 1981, and a second section of 34 additional
km is expected to be commissioned in 1983, in time for the reinforcement in
the water supply of the SONEDE grid during the peak consumption period.
Works on the 1,400 ha Testour perimeter are ready, and irrigation is
scheduled to start during the current cropping season. Works on the Medjez
el Bab perimeter of 3,800 ha are now progressing satisfactorily, and are
expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Contracts for works for the
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations subproject in the Cap Bon area have all been
awarded; the anticipated completion date is end-1983. The irrigation
component is experiencing important cost overruns, but because of
Government's willingness to take action, no financing difficulties are
foreseen.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Most of the project facilities are now completed and in operation.
Disbursements including release of retention monies to contractors will be
completed in 1983.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Botb loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by higb
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).



-33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
LD. 1601:       Rural-Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness:  April 30,-1979; Closing Date:  June
30 -1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces. The
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
progressing satisfactorily, witb the exception of the use of credit for
agro-industries. A Government request to expand the project to cover three
additional provinces has been approved.
Le.-1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project;-US$26.5 million loan of
April 13,1-979; Date of Effectiveness:  August 31, 1979;
Closing-Date: -December-31, 1984.
Works under construction are progressing according to scbedule.
Tbirty-one contracts have been awarded for a total dollar equivalent of
US$50.2 million. Bank's commitments amount to US$20.8 million. Tenders for
civil works of the Choutrana Treatment Plant have been invited.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of-Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: -December 31, 1983.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
should be completed in mid-1983. Most of the project facilities are already
in operation.
Ln.-1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The civil works are advancing well in Sfax and less satifactorily
in Tunis. Problems related to site acquisition were recently solved and
efforts are being taken to reduce cost overruns in core housing
construction. About 40% of the civil works are completed. The solid waste
component is still at a standstill due to managerial problems at the
District of Tunis. The technical assistance and studies are advancing well.
Ln.i-1746:      Second-Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date-of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat bulls is underway and
bid awards for boat engines have been made. Cold storage and ice making
plants for existing ports have been procured and bidding for civil works
superstructure at tbree new ports is underway.



- 34 -
ANNIHX I I
Fage7of 11
Lo. 1796;       Southern Irri ation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
Febr-ary 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; Se,tember 30, 1980;
Closing Date;  June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and is now progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work will be underway on 11 of the 16 project perimeters before the
end of 1982.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness; June 25, 1980; Closing Dates June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are now progressing satisfactorily.
Dredging operations are completed and the precasting of cellular caissons
started early in 1982. Some delay was experienced in the settlement of the
reclaimed area, but this should not affect the project's completion date of
June 1984. Initial concrete casting problems at Sfax are now solved and the
new quay is being erected. The area occupied by the Navy bas not yet been
vacated which might reduce slightly the length of the shallow-draft berth.
Civil works there are about 5 months behind schedule and completion is
expected by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both ports.
Implementation of training programs for port personnel has started,
technical assistance being provided by UNCTAD. The study on workshops
reorganization and maintenance procedures is conducted by a group of
consultants (local and foreign) to which the contract was awarded.
Ln. 1841:       Fourtb Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
The rehabilitation program is progressing well. The 1982 action
plan for maintenance is being implemented, and tenders have been awarded for
civil works. Road maintenance equipment is being delivered.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness:  December 9, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purcbase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The first branch pipeline to
Tunis has been completed and other branches will be completed during 1982.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of the agricultural three-year
lending program of BNT (Banque Nationale de Tunisie) for medium and
long-term credit to small and medium farmers, production and service
cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-industries. Disbursements have
started for production cooperatives and commercial farmers. However,
because Government funds are also available for similar purposes to farmers
and agro-industries under other programs which, unlike the Bank-financed
program, offer subsidies, disbursements are below the expected level.
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily.
The first phase of construction has already been tendered. All the final
lists of furniture and equipment have been completed and the programs
reviewed, all but one package being retendered. The Government executing
agency (OTTEEFP) has already reviewed proposals on the technical assistance
to aid in reinforcing the management logistics and programs of the network
of vocational centers, and bas retained and approved one of the proposals.
Lni. 1969:      Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries througb financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs tbrough participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI tecbnical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects. No commitments to
date.
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region
through the establishment of institutions which could implement the program,



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
and the development of extension, research, credit, and livestock services.
The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil conservation and
forestry activities, together with productive infrastructure works.
La.-2003:       Third Power Project; US$4165 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
i_, 19,.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing tbe first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification,
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network, and improving the
supply of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:       Health-and PoEulation Project;US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: -Deeember 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic bealth care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective bealth, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train bealtb personnel. All project
activities are well coordinated and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily and according to schedule.
Ln.-2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project;-US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; May 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Equipment procured under bilateral financing as well as major
productive machines financed under Bank loan have recently been commissioned
and are running on three shifts. Technical assistance is progressing
satisfactorily. Financial performance of the primary beneficiary of the
Bank loan (SOGITEX) continues to be satisfactory.
Ln.-2052;       Grain -Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectivenesst April 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports, and the cost of transport and bandling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cereals (OC); and lay the groundwork for furtber modernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. The invitation to
bid for construction of silos has been delayed about a year and has not yet
been issued as a result of OC's difficulties in recruiting consulting
engineers. Procurement by SNCFT of rail hopper cars and materials for
construction of silo railway sidings is underway. Consultants for technical
assistance in management and finance have been recruited by OC.
Ln. 2108:       Fifth Highway Project; US$ 35.5 million loan of May 14, 1982;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: December 13, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extension centers will be constructed and equipped, and
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be provided. Measures
to create a Project Coordinating Committee are being taken.
Ln. 2113:       Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness:
December 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) will
provide a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and
mechanical industries and for general purpose lending to industry in
Tunisia. The remainder of this loan will be used by the Tunisian Government
to provide technical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for
Mechanical Industries, and a National Institute of Standardization and
Quality Control for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on
effective protection.
Loan 2134:      Sixth Water Supply Project; US$ 30.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project provides for the expansion and improvement of water
supply systems in about 150 rural centers. It also includes the provision
of credit facilities to help finance individual house connections and the
installation of 80,000 meters for these connections. Thirteen subprojects
that would be implemented in 30 rural centers and financed under the loan
have already been selected by SONEDE and approved by the Bank. Civil works
contracts for a total amount of US$1.24 million have been placed for three
of the subprojects, and works on two of the contracts have started. Bidding
for civil works for the remaining subprojects is under way.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. 2157:       Medjerda/Nebbana Irrigation Development Project; US$ 22.0
million loan of June 8, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness;
January 6, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project will provide funds for a development project in which
emphasis will be placed on improving irrigation works and marketing
facilities in the regions of Medjerda near Tunis and Nebbana near Sousse.
The implementing agencies for the $55.1 million project, the Medjerda Valley
Development Agency and the Nebbana Development Agency, expect to increase
the production of vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, livestock and
milk. Some 7,800 farmers from the two areas will benefit from the
improvements to be made under the project. The project will also provide
farm access roads, fruit and vegetable processing centers, cold stores and
milk collection centers.
Loan. 2197:    Technical Assistance Project; US$ 4.5 million loan of October
29, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness:  January 28, 1983;
Closing Date; December 31, 1986.
The project will provide technical assistance in identifying and
preparing investment projects and formulating policies for Tunisia's
agriculture, industry and energy sectors. The capabilities of the
institutions involved in these sectors will be improved, and assistance in
the start-up of a new agricultural promotion agency will be provided.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1Fof 2
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:            7 months (August 1981 to February 1982)
(b) The agency which prepared
the project:                       Ministry of Housing/ARRU
(c)  Project first identified
by the Bank:                       June 1981
(d)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:  February 1982
(e)  Negotiations:                      October/November 1982
(f) Planned date of loan
effectiveness:                     April 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
The signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
CPSCL, and of the Management Agreement between the Government and CNEL (para.
58).
2.   Condition of Disbursement of Funds Against Related Expenditures.
For each sites and services component, the needed land expropriated and
made available (para. 61).
3.   Other Special Conditions:
(a) a Special Account would be established by December 31, 1983 to
finance upgrading in Hafsia under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 51);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 oT 2
(b) MOH and ARRU would bave adequate tecbnical assistance to ensure
effective project implementation (para. 55);
(c) interest rates in the housing sector outside the project would be
reviewed annually with the Bank, beginning December 1, 1983, and for all the
project duration (para. 59);
(d) the Contribution des Riverains would be revised by June 30, 1984, and
special measures agreed with the Bank will be taken to ensure adequate cost
recovery (para. 60); and
(e) ARRU would acquire the land needed for the project and would receive,
by June 30, 1982, $400,000 from the Government, as a recoverable advance, to
initiate the purchase of land (para. 61).



IBRD 16394
1  9l                           loo                              le                JUNE 1982
TUNISIA
/ c/, /            r
THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CITIES                                                   ,2-er 
~~~~~~~~/    .   >'{0  U..                                             .3
0   Project Cities                                      e                                            77/
S   Provincial Capitols
Rivers IL/                     J°oo                     -      '                 p                 Nabeul
Soh~ SIt Lakes          r-1        Je/dou'ogNoben
Ports                                                                              / Zghouan
* International Airports
Provincial Boundaries                                                   0
--  International Boundaries         f *a Le Kef
Siliona
36                                                                    '.                                                                                 36
/  Sousseo'c
r'  <                                  @  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nsi
_ a ) 1er°8' . 9 ^ s s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mohdia
L                          /    Kasserine@                     /--
35'                           ---------                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~355
35-  ()                                         --- ~           5 d Bouzid
-j                     (Sfax  7
Gafsa
-34'                                                                   ------ r  d _
iTozeur~r.  -  -G Gabe
) ^<   -~                                  )                                  -Medenine
8~
_   FRANCE   ,.G C               AVIA      33                                                                TCOUn                                    3.
335                                            *To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~toouine33
SPAIN <             g           X      t                                
,/           IT~~~UNIISIA    MATAlt 
KILOMETERS
\ /)   X   s                           0    20  ~~~~~~~~~~~4?0  6.0  8.  100                                 1-1
ALGERA                                                         ThiS map heo been Pretpted bh the W.n1d hoks -ttofheno/os,eiY 1t h th- ---ehiece.
GERoftehedr o h Ap,t OWich,ti attahed Th. den-n,inato coed-d the
'ooaehhcno hi. -tp do -o t-Ply. o- the odfht Wond hank sod ,t
LIBYA                                a                th                                                  L I B  Y  A
J                              9->                               IP                           /11-                j~~~~~~~9



