FF    At.    LOAN NUMBER 2223 TN
Project Agreement
(Third Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGENCE POUR LA REHABILITATION
ET LA RENOVATION URBAINE
Dated    7efv                       , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2223 TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      oIJ It                   , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and AGENCE POUR LA REHABILITATION ET LA
RENOVATION URBAINE (hereinafter called ARRU).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ARRU agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS ARRU, in consideration of t:e Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to thp* Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARRU shall carr   out Parts A (1) (a) - (f) and
(2) (a), B (1) (a) - (d) and (2) (a), C (a) - (e), D (1) (a) -
(e) and (2) (a), E (1) (a) - (g), (2) and (3), and F (1) of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and urban
development practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ARRU in carrying out its
obligations under the Project, ARRU shall employ, by Septem-
ber 30, 1983 or such later date as the Bank may agree, an


﻿-2-
engineering expert and an urban planner whose selection, qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. In order to enable ARRU to carry out its
obligations with regard to the execution of this Project, and in
order to facilitate the coordination of all acts of implementa-
tion with respect thereto, ARRU shall enter into the Conventions
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i), (ii) and (iii)    of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.04. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under this Agreement, ARRU shall take or cause to
be taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the execution of the Project, including, without limitation, the
land to be expropriated or otherwise acquired for the execution
of Part A (2), Part B (2) and Part D (2) of the Project, and
shall furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, promptly
after each acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for the
Project.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement by ARRU of the works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) ARRU shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon  their  preparation, the    plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) ARRU shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the works and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ti) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the works financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;


﻿-3-
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by ARRU of any contract for works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ARRU and the
Bank, ARRU shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower, ARRU and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the ARRU
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) ARRU shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equip-
ment of ARRU and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) ARRU shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ARRU shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by ARRU of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. ARRU shall participate in the selection of
Beneficiaries and charge prices for land acquired and developed
in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to Schedule 2 of
the Loan Agreement.


﻿4-
Section 2.09. ARRU shall make all necessary arrangements for
the adequate compensation of any occupants of Sites whose proper-
ty is demolished as a result of the carrying out of Part A, B, C,
D and E of the Project. All such displaced persons shall be eli-
gible to become Beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions
of the Annex to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARRU
Section 3.01. ARRU shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
urban development and supervision practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARRU shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate Project
accounts reflecting its operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project.
Section 4.02. ARRU shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (a)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (b) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors on the Project accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning said accounts,
financial statements, records and expenditures and the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time request.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of ARRU hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify ARRU thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties to this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's addre&s hereinafter specified or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For ARRU:
Agence pour la Rehabilitation
et la Renovation Urbaine
9 Avenue Hedi Chaker
Tunis
Tunisia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ARRU may be taken or executed by its Pre-
sident Director General or such other person or persons as the
President Director General shall designate in writing, and ARRU
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AGENCE POUR LA REHABILITATION ET LA
RENOVATION URBAINE
By                             R     1entat
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  //      day of    Ae, 198&-L.
FOR SECRETARY


