Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22266 GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION
TO THE
WELFARE ASSOCIATION - WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR
THE PALESTINIAN NGO PROJECT (II)
May 24, 2001
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 24, 2001)
Currency Unit = ILS (Israeli New Sheqalim)
ILS 1.0 = US$0.24
US$1.0 = ILS 4.174
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAF           Charities Aid Foundation
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBO           Community Based Organization
DGM           Developmnent Grant Manager
EA            Environmental Assessment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
HSDP          Health System Development Project
ICDP          Integrated Community Development Project
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH           Ministry of Health
NGO           Non Govemment Organization
OCAT          Organizational Capacity Assessment Tool
PA            Palestinian Authority
PCBS          Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PGM           Partnership Grant Manager
PMIS          Project Management Information System
PMO           Project Management Office
PNGO          Palestinian Non Govemment Organization
QIP           Quality Improvement Project
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
WAC           Welfare Association Consortium
WBG           West Bank and Gaza
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager/Director:    Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sima Kanaan



WEST BANK AND GAZA
THE PALESTINIAN NGO PROJECT (II)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     6
3. Benefits and target population                                                    7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         16
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                        17
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Environmental                                                                    18
6. Social                                                                           19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                                   21



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     23
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           37
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       40
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     50
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   51
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            54
MAP(S)
IBRD 27791 - West Bank and Gaza



WEST BANK AND GAZA
The Palestinian NGO Project (II)
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
WBG
Date: May 24, 2001                                Team Leader: Sima W. Kanaan
Country Director: Nigel Roberts                   Sector Director: Doris Koehn
Project ID: P071040                               Sector(s): SA - Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Grant     Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[ I Loan     [ ] Credit    [X] Grant    ( ] Guarantee    pX] Other: Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$ 8.0
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.00           0.00          1.00
OTHER FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                            6.00           1.00         7.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              7.00            1.00         8.00
Total:                                                         14.00           2.00         16.00
Borrower:
Responsible agency: WELFARE ASSOCIATION CONSORTIUM
Address: Dahiet Al-Barid
Contact Person: Dr. Ismail El-Zabri, Director General
Tel: (972-2) 234-3921               Fax: (972-2) 234-3963               Email:
Other Agency(ies):
The Project Management Organization
Address: Dahiet Al-Barid
Contact Person: Dr. Mohammed Shadid
Tel: (972-2) 234-7771             Fax: (972-2) 234-7776               Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY T'2002             2003       2004      2005
Annual    2.00        3.00       2.00       1.00
Cumulative    2.00        5.00      7.00       8.00
Project implementation period: August 2001 through August 2004
)CS PAO F,,, "a -= -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims at strengthening the capacity of Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) to deliver
sustainable services to poor and marginalized Palestinians while supporting the overall professional and
strategic development of the Palestinian NGO sector.
The project will be implemented as Phase II of The Palestinian NGO Project (PNGO I) the objectives of
which were to i) deliver services to the poor using NGOs as delivery mechanisms; ii) to improve the
institutional capacity of NGOs receiving grants under the project; and, iii) to support efforts by the
Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian NGO sector to strengthen their working relationship, including
support for the development of a positive legal framework for the sector. PNGO II will build on Phase I's
achievements and successes, and will also draw on the lessons from that experience. The project also
recognizes the needs of a sector which now enjoys greater access to donor funding, but which has still not
confronted the issue of sustainability at the project, institutional and sector levels.
PNGO II will be implemented as a comprehensive program of capacity building aimed at addressing the
needs of the poor by improving the availability as well as the quality, impact and sustainability of service
provision schemes. The project will allocate considerable funding to NGO capacity building. It will seek to
support a longer-term transformation of the NGO sector into one that is dynamic and able to respond to the
changing needs of Palestinian society. The project will strike a balance between current and future needs. It
will work on short-term vulnerability's, as well as building medium-term capacities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
3   An estimated 60% of beneficiaries would come from the lower poverty group and/or would be
amongst those marginalized due to physical and/or social constraints.
3   Over 60% of the beneficiaries would express satisfaction with the services provided through NGOs
to selected target beneficiaries.
*   An estimated 60% of services provided by Development Grant recipients and 50% of services
provided by Partnership Grant recipients would be sustainable beyond the lifetime of the project.
* At least 50 NGOs would be assessed as having increased their capacity to plan, manage, and
secure longer-term funding for their service delivery programs.
The demand-driven nature of the project makes it difficult to derive quantifiable indicators up front.
Therefore, many of the indicators related to sub-projects and their expected impact on beneficiaries will
be defined once the sub-projects have been selected. It is equally difficult to provide quantifiable
indicators for the third component of the project that aims at supporting the role of the sector at large
and its complementarity with the role of the public sector, as an important element of longer-term
sustainability.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:           Date of latest CAS discussion:
The project objective is consistent with the Bank Group strategy outlined in "Replenishing the Trust Fund
for Gaza and the West Bank ", April 1998 (R98-96), which stresses the need for sustained growth and
increased job opportunities through an equitable development process. The Bank's strategy gives particular
- 2-



focus to investing in people, reducing inequalities and supporting good governance. This project will
addresses these three priorities. By supporting an improvement in the quality of services to the poor, the
project will contribute to providing better access by the poor and marginalized to resources and means
essential for improving their livelihood. By building the capacity of NGOs and community based
organizations (CBOs) it will provide the basis for longer-term sustainability of these services. Finally, by
facilitating further clarification of a shared vision of the NGO sector and by enhancing its capacity to play
its role more effectively, the project will contribute to supporting the development of a sound civil society -
a major element of good governance and of a healthy transformation towards statehood.
The proposed project wili also serve as an important channel for Bank emergency support if the months
following its approval see a continued need for Bank engagement in this area. Over the past few months,
the Bank has played an active role in mobilizing resources and in providing, through existing projects,
mechanisms for channeling emergency funds to affected communities. As part of that process, the Bank has
allocated USD 1 million of the recent Emergency Response Program to NGOs to support employment
generation programs using the services of the PMO. The Bank has also put in place the PEACE Facility,
which provides a framework for donors to fund emergency projects through existing and planned Bank
projects. In this context, PNGO II will provide an essential instrument for supporting the Bank's
engagement in an expanded emergency program and, more importantly, in supporting the key role played
by NGOs in responding to community needs under circumstances of enormous economic and social
difficulty.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Since the 1960s, and in the absence of a government providing many services, the Palestinian community
has primarily relied on NGOs for the provision of basic services in a wide range of areas, including health,
agriculture, education, psychological and physical rehabilitation, community development and income
generation. With the establishment of the Palestinian Authority in 1994, NGOs have had to adjust their
programs to meet the demands of the new situation. Some NGOs had to close, while others had to reorient
their activities to ensure complementarity with the public sector.
Today, NGOs continue to provide 60% of primary health care services, and manage 42% of the hospitals
9 90% of rehabilitation centers and 95% of preschool education. They serve thousands in agriculture,
have rehabilitated 6,000 acres of land threatened with confiscation, and employ an estimated 25,000 people
NGOs benefit from the experience accumulated over many years of active involvement in Palestinian
development. They have networks reaching out to some of the poorest groups and most marginalized areas.
They have broad constituencies and the flexibility to adapt swiftly to changing conditions and emergency
situations.
Despite the key historical role played by the NGOs in service delivery, the effectiveness of the sector is
undermined by many factors. While some of these are external (e.g. limited funding), others relate to the
overall capacity of the NGOs and their ability to transform their role in a way that responds to the changing
needs of Palestinian society.
The constraints to optimal sector performance include:
(i) reduced funding, resulting in underfinanced and/or unsustainable services.
(ii) concentration of NGO activities in urban areas, although a high percentage of the population continues
to live in rural areas or, as the case is in Gaza, in camps.
(iii) the predominance, still, of a charity approach to services without adequate attention to strategic
- 3 -



planning and sustainable solutions.
(iv) the concentration of 50% of funds available to the NGO sector in the hands of a few NGOs. This
reflects, at least in part, considerable gaps in NGO capacity at different levels and indicates a need to
broaden what is now a rather limited base of competent and functional NGOs.
(v) the absence of mechanisms for information exchange, dialogue and learning between NGOs, which
perpetuates duplication and inhibits the potential for NGOs to scale up their efforts.
(vi) insufficient coordination between the public sector and NGOs in service delivery and the absence of
effective mechanisms to integrate NGO experience and knowledge in the elaboration of development
policies. Paragraph 3 discusses how these constraints will be addressed by the proposed project.
Overall Government Strategy: During the early years of its establishment, the PA was generally reluctant
to come to terms with the fact that it is not the sole driving force in development. As a result, the
relationship between the PA and the NGO sector was characterized by competition and rivalry. The
relationship has improved in later years and today both the NGOs and the PA recognize that they have
complementary roles to play. Under PNGO I, PA and NGO efforts to develop a healthier working
relationship were encouraged through an array of joint activities such as sectoral workshops and strategic
meetings on the Project's achievements and future directions. The PA was also consulted prior to each grant
award decision to ensure that projects to be funded would not result in duplication of existing government
programs nor contradict national development priorities.
In August 1999, the Ministry of NGO Affairs was established. The NGO Law enacted in 1999 is, to a
large extent, progressive and favorable to the continued independent growth of the NGO sector. Today
NGOs take part in policy dialogue along with governmental departments, but NGO participation continues
to be ad-hoc. As evidenced by the support of the PA to the PNGO project and by the fairly progressive
thrust of the "Strategic Vision" document adopted by the Ministry of NGO Affairs as its blueprint for the
sector, there is support for continued efforts to enhance PA/NGO relations and to improve complementarity
of their respective roles.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) insufficient funding: The proposed project will address the first constraint by making funds available to
NGOs to expand service delivery. With a limited budget, however, this effort will be modest and will cover
a meager portion of the enormous needs. The project will therefore support sub projects with built-in
mechanisms for sustainability, utilizing cost-recovery schemes and other innovative approaches, including
possible private sector involvement. However, given the declining standard of living amongst the targeted
populations and the immaturity of the private and conmmercial sectors, the reliance of NGOs on donor
funding is likely to continue. The project will therefore focus its attention on establishing mechanisms that
can be copied widely, and which will enhance NGOs capacity to market their projects to donors.
(ii) targeting of marginalized areas/communities: By preselecting regions and communities, PNGO II will
ensure that its sub-projects reach regions that are particularly impoverished and marginalized. Moreover,
the project will build on the existing capacities of strong NGOs, many of which have national coverage.
This represents a more strategic approach than attempted by PNGO I, in which the accent was on reaching
a maximum number of organizations rather than on targeting organizations with sustainability potential.
(iii), (iv) and (v) inadequate NGO capacity and the prevalence of conservative approaches to both
service delivery and learning: The introduction of a broader approach to capacity building that puts
emphasis on strategic planning, scenario building, advocacy, leaming and networking will be a
cross-cutting theme under the proposed project. Through the partnership/accompaniment model, rather than
-4 -



through formal class-room training, the project will give an opportunity for experiential learning. Through
the sector support component, the project will also empower the strong NGOs and networks to play a more
active role in helping enhance the responsiveness and resilience of the sector.
(vi) improved coordination and promotion of a learning culture: One of the key achievements of Phase I
was its contribution to broadening opportunities for dialogue between the NGO networks and the PA,
largely through the structure of the consultative Governance Board. This effort will be continued and
enhanced through the proposed establishment of a Supervisory Board with specific responsibilities for
project implementation. The project also proposes to hold a number of workshops that address strategic
issues related to the role of the NGO sector in the West Bank and Gaza. One such workshop was held
during Phase I and was successful in setting the stage for further coordination within the sector and
between the sector and other public institutions.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
I. The Partnership Grants Program: The program will award grants for the implementation of 5-8
service delivery projects to be implemented by lead NGOs - Partnership Grant Managers (PGMs) - in
partnership with smaller NGOs/CBOs. The projects will target marginalized communities through a mix of
sectoral/regional and target community based projects. Projects are expected to be implemented over a
period of two years and to have an average total budget of US$1 million with an estimated sub-grant size
of US$50,000 - US$100,000. About 7% of the overall budget will be allocated to the provision of
technical and organizational capacity building programs to smaller NGOs/CBOs.
II. The Development Grants Program: The program will award grants for the implementation of 10-15
projects by NGOs - Development Grant Recipients (DGRs) - that have demonstrated the ability to manage
quality projects during Phase I of the PNGO Project. Grants to be awarded to DGRs will represent
incremental support that will contribute significantly to the enhanced sustainability of a project activity
financed during PNGO I and/or replicating a project activity in another location and/or assistance to bring
an NGO to a high level of capacity or sustainability. Projects to be financed will range between US$
50,000 - US$ 300,000. The Program will set aside up to 7% of the total budget for tailor-made capacity
building and institutional development to recipient NGOs.
III. The Sector Support Program: This program will provide support at the sectoral level, drawing on
technical expertise of stronger NGOs and NGO networks. It will finance activities intended to: (i) promote
information exchange and networking within the NGO sector; (ii) support the elaboration of a stronger
vision of the sector's role in development and its involvement in policy setting; (iii) promote a positive
working environment for PA/NGO dialogue and for enhancing complementarity between public and
non-governmental service delivery programs; and (iv) support the capacity of NGO networks to provide
leadership in the NGO sector and to better represent the needs and interests of their constituents/members.
The program will be implemented through a combination of grants and sub-contracts to finance research,
advocacy work, data collection, discussion fora, seminars and technical expertise.
IV. Technical Assistance and Monitoring & Evaluation National/international expertise will be
provided to: (a) support capacity gaps in areas that relate to effective management of the
partnership/development grants programs (community participation, M&E, fund-raising etc); (b) develop
M&E and targeting tools, including adaptation of the Organizational Capacity Assessment Tool and
- 5 -



pre-investment and targeting studies; and (c) conduct overall program evaluations, including annual
financial and management audits, a Mid-Term Review, evaluations of the governance structure and the
potential for developing the Supervisory Board into a governance structure that will outlive the project.
V. Project Management: The Project Management Organization (the PMO) will be responsible for the
management of the grant awarding process, overall supervision of sub-projects, provision of technical
expertise to sub-grant managers and reporting on and dissemination of project results and impact. The
PMO will also facilitate dialogue between various stakeholders and administer the implementation of the
Sector Support Component of the project, including the procurement of expertise, organization of
workshops/seminars and the provision of referral services.
The Emergency Grants Program: This component is proposed as a window for channeling emergency
funds that may be made available to the Bank by other donors as part of their response to immediate
emergency needs. The PMO has already managed the disbursement of US$ 1 million from the World
Bank's Emergency Response Program (ERP) for employment generation projects implemented by NGOs.
Funds made available for this component would finance projects not exceeding US$ 100,000 in value,
aiming to support employment generation, expansion/rehabilitation of basic health service facilities,
community centers and rehabilitation services. This component is not yet funded. In the unlikely event that
no additional donor funds should be mobilized (see below), the component will be dropped with no impact
on any of the other components.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
:_________________  _(US$M)   Total     (US$M)  financing
i) Partnership Grants Program                           9.50      59.4       4.00      50.0
ii) Development Grants Program                          2.50      15.6       1.25      15.6
iii) Sector Support                                     1.50       9.4       0.50       6.2
iv) TA and M&E                                          0.50       3.1       0.25       3.1
v) Project Management                                   2.00      12.5       2.00      25.0
Total Project Costs                  16.00      100.0      8.00      100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                    16.00      100.0      8.00      100.0
Of the USS 16 million program, US$ 8 million would be financed by the proposed grant, US$ I million would
come from beneficiary contributions, and about US$ 7 million would constitute co-financing from donors. Several
Gulf and European countries have expressed interest, and commitments are expected to be firmed up shortly.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
One of the primary objectives sought under this project is an active engagement by the NGOs and the PA in
consultation over the respective roles of public and non-governmental services. A series of preliminary
steps have been taken in this direction. Today, even though the relationship between the PA and the NGOs
is still characterized by a mixture of distrust, control and cooperation, both parties are advocating a better
framework for relations.
Through its project structures and a series of consultative workshops, PNGO I helped establish grounds for
improved interaction between the PA and the NGOs. PNGO II will build on this by concentrating on more
concrete issues and processes around where there is mutual interest. To enhance the sustainability of these
- 6 -



efforts, the project will support mechanisms that will transform an ad hoc relationship between the PA and
NGOs into one that is more institutionalized and output-driven. This will is expected to be achieved
through new initiatives such as NGO participation in the work of the National Poverty Commission and the
Comprehensive Development Framework. Irrespective of how the overall situation develops, it is clear that
there will be increased need for services for the poor. It is also clear that NGOs will need to do more with
less. It will be crucial to enhance complementarity between public and non-governmental programs by
introducing new models of cooperation at the sector and project levels. The project will also support NGO
efforts to improve Palestinian legal frameworks, particularly as they pertain to the provision of basic social
services and ensuring that laws and by-laws address the rights of marginalized and vulnerable groups.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: Services to the poor and marginalized will be strengthened and expanded under the project. The
introduction of a new model that focuses funding on a selected number of NGOs is likely to have a larger
impact on the communities/sectors affected. The elaboration of profiles of communities to be targeted and
of specific strategies for addressing their needs should enhance the success of specific sub-projects. Both
strong and small NGOs/CBOs will benefit as a result of the partnerships they will forge under the
Partnership Grants Program. Strong NGOs will benefit from building their capacity to manage umbrella
grants for smaller NGOs. They will also benefit from an opportunity to expand their partnerships with
smaller NGOs, thereby enhancing their reach to marginalized communities. Both these factors should help
address the existing gap in the capacity levels between small and large NGOs, the concentration of funding
in the hands of the larger few, and the reported bias of larger NGOs programs towards urban areas. The
Partnership Grants Program is therefore expected to bring significant benefits to smaller NGOs in terms of
better access to donor funding and to technical expertise available to the larger NGOs. To ensure the
effectiveness of this approach, PGM proposals would be evaluated in great part on the quality of their
capacity building plans for smaller NGOs. Moreover, all NGOs participating in the Partnership Grants
Program will benefit from networks to be established under the program, in terms of cross-fertilization and
information exchange. Medium-capacity NGOs will benefit from additional funds to extend successful
projects to the point of sustainability. Their access to customized institutional support will also give these
NGOs a better chance to graduate to higher professional capacity and financial autonomy. Finally, the
NGO sector at large will benefit from activities to support the institutional capacity of the NGO networks
as well as improving networking opportunities, information exchange and the promotion of a culture of
learning.
Target Population: The poor and marginalized in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, estimated at about 30%
of the Palestinian population at the end of 2000, are the ultimate target beneficiaries of the project.
Estimates of the total number of beneficiaries, by gender and age, will be developed once the grant
programs are approved. An estimated total number of 5/8 large NGOs, 10-15 medium-level NGOs and
80-100 smaller NGOs/CBOs, are expected to benefit from the project's capacity building initiatives.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: August 2001 - August 2004.
Institutions
The Welfare Association Consortium (WAC), responsible for implementing PNGO 1, will continue to
assume contractual responsibility for the implementation of the project, through the structure of the PMO,
under WACs jurisdiction. The recommendation to maintain existing arrangements was made by the
Mid-Term Review team and was endorsed by Bank management. The WAC will continue to act as the
-7 -



recipient and the manager of project funds. It is a consortium of three partners, the Welfare Association
(the lead partner), the Charities Aid Foundation (CAF); and the British Council. CAF and the British
Council are contracted in separate individual agreements by the Welfare Association and will provide
specific technical expertise.
Responsibility for overall project management: The day-to-day management will be entrusted to the
PMO. It will be responsible for technical work associated with the identification of sub-project priority
areas; announcement and advertisement of the partnership and development grants; the elaboration of
criteria for technical assessments of project proposals; the technical evaluation of submitted proposals; the
finalization of grant agreements and sub-project implementation plans; the replenishment of project
sub-accounts; and monitoring, evaluating and reporting on sub-project implementation. The procedures for
these processes will be outlined in a revised Operational Manual (expanded from PNGO I).
In managing the Development and Partnership Grants Programs, the PMO will be expected to provide
technical support, in the form of in-house and/or out-sourced expertise, to beneficiary NGOs. It will also
act as a conduit for and facilitator of information sharing and exchange between the various projects and
their lead partners/managers. The PMO will allocate a significant amount of staff time for monitoring
project impact and documenting and disseminating project experiences. Finally, the PMO is expected to
allocate resources towards fund-raising efforts for the project and possible successor mechanisms.
Management of the Emergency Grants Program: This component will be managed by a sub-unit of the
PMO that will be established using proceeds from donor funds mobilized for this component.
The Supervisory Board: The Supervisory Board will include representatives of the five Palestinian NGO
networks, five civil society independents, and three representatives of the Welfare Association Consortium.
Two representatives of the Ministries of Planning and Intemational Cooperation and of NGO Affairs will
have observer status on the Board. Finally, as Secretariat to the Board, the PMO will participate as a
non-voting member. The Supervisory Board will have clearly defined responsibilities for overseeing the
implementation of the project, including the approval of the project annual work program and review of
submissions by the PMO of semi-annual progress reports. The Board will approve the Operational Manual
and, in so doing, will agree to all procedures that govem the grant awarding process, including eligibility
and evaluation criteria. The Board will thereafter approve the awarding of grants based on
recommendations submitted for its review by the PMO.
To guard against any potential conflict of interest and abuse of the authority vested in the Board, the Board
Terms of Reference, composition and working procedures, along with a Policy on Conflict of Interest, have
been detailed and widely discussed. These should be acceptable to the Bank and endorsed by the Board
once it has formed, as a condition for project effectiveness.
In line with the project's objective to empower the NGO sector and to facilitate a wider engagement by the
NGOs, the PA and civil society in joint discussions of policy issues, the Supervisory Board will serve as a
key forum for policy consultation and for advising the PMO on priority areas of intervention. The role of
the Supervisory Board with regard to the Sector Support Component of the project will be interactive, with
the Board directly engaged in the definition of activities and outputs.
The Supervisory Board will need to conforn to the guidelines in the PAD and the Operational Manual. Any
decisions emanating from the Board that result in significant changes in project design as outlined in either
of the two documents will require the Bank's approval.
- 8 -



Implementation
Implementation Arrangements: Project implementation procedures, including a delineation of the
respective authorities of the various technical and supervisory structures, will be elaborated in the
Operational Manual. The Operational Manual must be finalized in a manner acceptable to the Bank before
any sub-grant disbursements can occur. For the Partnership Grants, the grant award process will follow a
sequence consisting of pre-selection of priority sectors/regions, short-listing of NGOs, development of full
project proposals, technical evaluation of project proposals and, finally, Board approval of selected
projects/NGOs. Selection procedures for Development Grants will differ in that the short-listing of NGOs
will be based on the results of an impact assessment and the NGOs' track record in Phase I. The Sector
Support Component will consist of grants and TA contracts. Activities under this component will be
identified by the Supervisory Board and reflected in annual action plans that the PMO will implement. The
grant award process for the Emergency Grants will be detailed separately in the Operational Manual,
taking into account the particular nature of sub-projects to be funded under this component and the
emphasis on rapid delivery.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: A comprehensive Bank assessment of the
PMO's financial management system concluded that the accounting policies and procedures followed by
the PMO were adequate. The assessment also reviewed financial audit reports from previous years and the
more recent management audit report, both issued by Deloitte and Touche with clean opinions. The PMO's
finance department has three qualified accountants supervised by an experienced Finance Manager. The
existing structure for financial management will be retained.
The accounting policies and procedures successfully followed under PNGO I will be outlined in the new
Operational Manual. Adjustments dictated by changes in the design will be accordingly reflected. Starting
no later than September 1, 2002, the PMO will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports.
All records, accounts and financial statements will be audited each fiscal year by Deloitte and Touche. To
date, all PNGO I audits have received unqualified opinions.
Procurement Arrangements: The PMO will be responsible for ensuring that procurement follows IDA
guidelines. Depending on the type and size of the activity, procurement will be managed by the PMO, lead
partner NGOs, and/or recipient NGOs. During the start-up period, training on World Bank Procurement
Guidelines will be provided to project implementation staff. A procurement expert will be assigned by the
PMO to assist in the preparation of TORs and to provide technical support to sub-project managers in the
preparation of tender documents and Requests for Proposals (RFP). Simplified bidding documents in
Arabic will be used for the procurement of goods and works.
Monitoring and Evaluation: PNGO II monitoring will be focused on measurable outputs and will not be
limited to tracking of inputs or financial flows. Monitoring will be divided into sub-project monitoring and
overall project monitoring.
Sub-Project Monitoring: The PMO will establish a set of milestones for each of the sub-projects to show
when the key results of a project are expected, with funding to be released in tranches against the
achievement of these results. This approach will be applied both to the PMO's disbursements to the DGRs
and PGMs, and to the PGM's disbursements to beneficiary NGOs/CBOs. The format and frequency of
reporting from the PGMs and DGRs to the PMO will be detailed in the Operational Manual. The
Operational Manual will also establish the basis against which program adjustments can be made and will
set criteria against which a sub-project that is not performing may be terminated. The PMO has developed
-9-



an advanced and sound Project Monitoring Information System (PMIS). In line with the shift towards
output-based-monitoring, the PMO will adapt its PMIS to link disbursement to the achievement of results.
Project Evaluation and Reporting: Project evaluation will assess impact resulting from sub-projects, both
in terms of benefit and beneficiaries. Assessment of the project's impact on the capacity of individual
NGOs and of the NGO sector will be based on an adaptation of the Organizational Capacity Assessment
Tool (OCAT) approach which will also be used to establish baseline information against which
improvements in NGO capacity can be measured.
Monitoring and evaluation reports will be submitted by the PMO to the World Bank and the Supervisory
Board on a semi-annual basis. The format for reporting will be detailed in the Operational Manual. The
semi-annual reports will reflect the greater emphasis by the project on achievement of impact and on
documentation and dissemination of lessons learnt. The PMO will also submit to the World Bank a
mid-term report by March 31, 2003. The mid-term report will summarize achievements to date, including
the results of a beneficiary impact assessment that the PMO will undertake.
The preparation of the mid-term report will form the basis for the carrying out a Mid-Term Review around
June 2003. The Mid-Term Review will focus on the future operation of the project and will detail an exit
strategy for the Bank. It is expected that the Supervisory Board will generate a sense of ownership of the
project and that it will evolve into a permanent govemance structure. The exit strategy will build on the
results of a study that will look at the potential future development of the Supervisory Board and other
project structures. Finally, the PMO will prepare an implementation completion report (ICR) six months
after completion of the project.
Implementation of M&E: M&E training will be provided to DGRs and PGMs. The PGMs will, in turn, be
expected to identify the best form of capacity building for their recipient NGOs. Thus, each project
proposal submitted to the PGMs or to the PMO from the DGRs will need to identify the costs associated
with setting up simple monitoring systems and conducting relevant evaluation studies. In addition to what
has been described, various other ad-hoc M&E activities will be undertaken such as an NGO client survey
to study the impact of the project's sector support activities, a study of NGO govemance, and a database of
donor financing of NGOs. These studies will be funded from the monitoring and evaluation component of
the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative 1: To reconstitute the WACIPMO to include afourth international partner for the Capacity
Building Component.
Reasons for Rejection: The proposal was considered on account of the increased focus of the project on
capacity building and the recommendation of the Mid-Term Review to establish, as a legacy of the project,
an NGO Resource Centre. After receipt of proposals from International NGOs, it was concluded that the
considerable cost of adding a four.th partner was not justifiable. Instead, the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Welfare Association Consortium and the two co-partners, the British Council
and the Charities Aid Foundation has been revised to focus their inputs/contributions on capacity building.
- 10 -



Alternative 2: To continue to allocate the largest portion of grant funding to development grants.
Reasons to. R(ejection: Phase 1 experience has shown mnat spreading funds thinly across a large number of
NGOs and projects does not adequately address the need to build the capacity of NGOs to sustain their
services. By contrast, the proposed Partnership Grants Program will give a smaller number of NGOs
access to an increased level of funding and the opportunity to benefit from closer interaction, over an
extended period of time, with competent and experienced NGOs. Furthermore, as the Partnership Program
will provide grants for the implementation of sub-projects within a framework that targets particular
sectors, areas and groups, the cumulative impact of the sub-projects is likely to be more significant and
measurable.
Alternative 3: To establish a Resource Centre as a core component of the capacity building effort and as
a key element in sustaining project impact.
Consultation with projects stakeholders/partners showed that there is not enough support for the
establishment of an NGO Resource Centre. It was felt that some of the services to be offered by such a
Resource Centre could be provided by existing NGOs if their capacities were sufficiently enhanced.
As an alternative, the project will work through existing NGOs and NGO networks to provide services that
support the development of the sector. For example, the establishment of an NGO website will be
contracted, based on competitive bidding, to the NGO that demonstrates the highest technical capacity to
manage such a service. Training, research and the promotion of policy changes will likewise be contracted
to local entities based on an organization's comparative advantage.
Since PNGO II will establish a Supervisory Board that includes representatives of civil society, it is
expected that this will generate a sense of ownership of the project, including its systems, processes and
activities. Combined with a demonstrated PMO capacity to provide sound technical services and to play an
active role as facilitator of NGO interaction, this is likely to lay the basis for the creation of governance
structures that will outlive the project. The feasibility of the evolution of the Supervisory Board into such a
structure will be formally reviewed at the end of June 2002.
Alternative 4: To design a project componeWnt for supporting existing training providers as core elements
of a longer-term strategy of national capacity building efforts for empowering smaller NGOs.
Following the survey of the supply of and demand for capacity building, it became clear that many of the
existing training providers (with the exception of academic institutions) do not have sufficient core capacity
to sustain their activities. The programs of such organizations have been largely designed around
donor-financed projects and they do not generate sufficient demand for their services to maintain
themselves once donor funding for their programs has ceased. On the other hand, large NGOs with
specialized technical capacity have been performing well. Investing in promoting the transfer of skills from
such NGOs to smaller NGOs through working partnerships was therefore selected as an altemative way of
promoting capacity building and empowering smaller NGOs.
- 11 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financedprojecsonly
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Expansion of MOH health delivery   Education & Health                S             S
system, establishment of QIP, and  Rehabilitation Project, 1995
Communications Link Feasibility   (US$ 20 million.)
Study; and preparation of Five-Year
Health Plan.
Improvement of the management of the Education Action Project -
education system to deliver quality  Board presentation May 2001
services and to support the Ministry of (US$ 7 million.)
Education in implementing the
activities in its Five Year Plan.
Improvement of access to high quality  Health System Development     S             S
primary health care particularly in rural Project, 2000 (US$ 7.9
and under-served areas.            million.)
Improvement of social and economic   Community Development           S             S
infrastructure services in small   Project I, 1997 (US$ 10
municipalities and villages, including   million.)
rehabilitation of local clinics, schools,
and roads.
Community Development             S             S
Project II, 1999 (US$ 8 million)
Integrated Community
Development Project -(ICDP).
(US$ 10 million.- under
preparation)
Delivering services to the poor and  Palestinian NGO I, 1997         S              S
marginalized using NGOs as a delivery (US$ 10 million)
mechanism; improving the capacity of
NGOs receiving grants; supporting a
better working relationship between the
PA and NGO sector.
- 12 -



Financing of small scale employment  ERP - Emergency Response
generation projects with US$ 1 million Program, 2001 (US$ 12
channeled through NGOs focusing on  million.)
non-infrastructure projects.
Other development agencies
Capacity building for CBOs through   The Friedrich-Naumann
partnership with training service  Stiftung - 2001-2004; DM 3
providers.                        million.
Provision of services to needy rural    USAID - Community Services
communities with a focus on upgrading Prograrn - US$ 80 million, to
and construction of basic infrastructure; be implemented in three phases.
supporting cooperatives and provision  Phase I and II totaling US$ 50
of community training for employment million to be implemented over
and income generation; and providing  three years starting 2000/2001.
support to village councils and
municipalities.
Provision of small and medium sized   USAID - Civil Society Building
grants as well as institutional   Program (Tarnkeen), US$ 32
development support to NGOs covering million.
a wide range of sectors and building the
capacity of training service providers
with a general focus on promoting
democratic principles and practices.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Linkages with World Bank projects.
The education, health and ICDP projects have large service delivery components and opportunities for
linkages between these projects and PNGO II have been explored.
The Health System Development Project (HSDP I) will promote complementarity between public and NGO
service delivery schemes by encouraging systematic NGO participation in project structures. This will
reinforce PNGO II's objective of institutionalizing participation of NGOs in sectoral policy discussions.
Opportunities for piloting joint NGO/public activities within the framework of the HSDP project will also
be explored.
ICDP would promote NGO partnership with local municipalities. As both projects will target their
interventions to particular regions/localities, it will be important to ensure that there is no duplication of
efforts and to ensure compatible objectives in areas where they both work. ICDP will look towards PNGO
II for identifying qualified NGOs whose services can be used to provide technical assistance.
The NGO component of the Emergency Response Project is managed by the Welfare Association
Consortium/PMO. The WAC solicits proposals, appraises them and recommends projects to an Ad Hoc
Emergency Committee. The successful piloting of this mechanism, both in terms of impact and efficiency,
has prompted inclusion in PNGO II of an emergency component.
- 13-



Complimentarity with Other Donor-supported NGO Projects:
While there are a number of donor interventions in support of the NGO sector, current funding represents
only a half of what the sector received 5-10 years ago. USAID's Civil Society Building Program is
providing significant financing for NGO service delivery in a comparable manner to the Development
Grants Program and PNGO I. The proposed PNGO II will complement the USAID project by breaking
new grounds in pursuing longer term sustainability at the project and sector levels. Moreover, PNGO II
will be unique in its engagement of local partners, including NGOs and independent representatives of civil
society, in its govemance structure which represents an additional element towards furthering ownership,
empowerment and longer-tern sustainability of the sector. Regular consultations with USAID will be held
by the PMO and the Bank during PNGO II. PNGO II is also expected to complement USAID's Community
Services Program and its objective of empowering communities in its proposed support of NGOs as key
conduits of community interests. This will be very similar to how PNGO II will complement the Bank's
ICDP project.
Importantly, PNGO II is also unique among donor initiatives in creating a partnership between the
representatives of the PA and the NGO networks. This is expected to enhance ownership and to encourage
collaboration between the governnent and the non-governmental sector, an objective that other donor
funded projects do not pursue directly. Similarly, PNGO II is unique in providing explicit support for the
NGO sector and NGO/PA relations as a whole (through the proposed Support to the Sector component).
The Bank and other financiers of NGO projects will hold informal monthly discussions to ensure adequate
information exchange and avoid duplication of efforts.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
PNGO I piloted, for the first time in the West Bank and Gaza, umbrella grant management as a form of
grant making to NGOs. At the time of its initiation, donor funding to the NGO sector was either provided
in the form of direct support to a few NGOs, or through Private Voluntary Organizations (PVOs) and in
much smaller amounts than what is available today. Therefore, the project broke new grounds and
pioneered approaches that have subsequently been adopted by other donors. It also registered considerable
results in terms of the wide sectors it has covered and the number of beneficiaries it has reached. As of
today, PNGO I has reached a total of 106,874 poor and marginalized Palestinian men, women and children.
This result is well above the targeted 50,000 beneficiaries set in the PNGO I Project Appraisal Document.
Selected indicators show that it has enabled an estimated 6,000 children to have access to improved
education and upgraded kindergartens; it allowed for the screening of 7,000 pupils for common children
diseases; it gave 2,000 farmers the opportunity to benefit from rehabilitated land; it established community
service centres in impoverished camps and villages where no such facilitities had ever existed; and, it gave
access, for the first time, to 1,500 drug addicts or ex-addicts to actual and/or preventive treatment.
Despite their significance, the cited achievements could not alone justify a second round of umbrella
funding in the broad manner provided under PNGO I, given the noted increase, over the last few years, in
the level of funding and the types of grant-making projects that have become available to Palestinian
NGOs. PNGO Il, therefore, is justified on grounds that it proposes a more strategic approach that
emphasizes quality, impact and sustainability. This shift in emphasis, however, builds considerably on
lessons learnt from PNGO I as reflected in the following examples:
a) Reduction of Bureaucratic Steps and Procedures: During PNGO I, the awarding of NGO grants
- 14 -



through three cycles that were managed over more than two years meant that a lot of staff time was
allocated to announcing, reviewing and approving grants. This generated a huge processing workload for
the PMO and focused attention, amongst both PMO staff, clients and stakeholders, on the competitive
aspect of awarding grants. It also meant that insufficient resources were put into closer monitoring of
impact and documentation of results. The proposal in PNGO II for awarding grants upfront in two cycles,
one each for the Partnership and Development Grants, will help address some of the mentioned constraints.
Similarly, at the level of the Partnership Grants, the approval of grants to a smaller number of NGOs, and
much earlier on in the project period, will allow for closer and longer-term interaction with those
beneficiary NGOs.
b) Budgetary Allocations to Capacity Building: It has been recommended in preparatory studies that Block
Grant Managers allocate a fixed percentage of their budget to capacity building. In the new design, such a
provision will be made to ensure that capacity building needs of small NGOs are adequately addressed, and
are measured against specific indicators.
c) Ceiling on grant amounts to smaller NGOs: PNGO I placed a ceiling of US$ 50,000 on the size of
grants that could be awarded by Block Grant Managers to smaller NGOs. This did not seem to provide the
most adequate approach to ensuring that the funds were going to the smallest NGOs who were the target
group of that program. PNGO II will adopt a less restrictive approach and will make Partnership Grants
more flexible, taking into account the absorptive capacity of the recipient NGO and the nature of the
sub-project it will implement.
d) Formal training in favor of longer-term accompaniment: Given the large supply of training programs
and the assessed inadequacy of the approach to learning, this model has been dropped in favor of
longer-term accompaniment by the larger NGOs of weaker capacity NGOs and the provision through this
partnership of on-the-job training. This will necessitate that contracts with lead partner NGOs be extended
over the full duration of the project and other capacity building grants be extended up to six months.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The funds will not be provided to the Palestinian Authority, but rather to a consortia of NGO
organizations. It is therefore not possible to provide the funds on regular IDA credit terms and similarly to
PNGO I, the funds will be requested on a grant basis.
The Palestinian Authority's continued interest and commitment to the project's objectives is demonstrated in
the letter from the PA to the Bank dated 27 September, 2000 which "requests World Bank support for a
second phase of the Palestinian NGO project". The PA has repeatedly recognized the contribution that the
project has made during Phase I and has requested continued Bank assistance in the same area. The active
participation by the Ministry of NGO Affairs in the first phase of the project, through its membership in the
Governance Board, has proven to be largely constructive and reflects the Ministry's interest in the
continued activities of the project. The strategy outlined by the Ministry's strategic planning document for
the NGO sector is also in line with the objectives of the proposed project. This should provide a good basis
for a positive collaboration with the Ministry.
The NGO sector's commitment to the project can be measured by the active involvement of the networks
and individual NGOs in the activities of the first phase and their continued interest in taking part in the
consultations on the new project's design. It is further reflected in the NGO networks' persistent efforts to
increase their involvement in the project through the project's governance structure.
- 15 -



The Welfare Associations commitment and interest in the project is evidenced in contributions it has made
to the budget of PNGO I, at about US$ 600,000, and their expressed interest in a longer-term involvement
beyond PNGO II. Finally, the Welfare Association has also been active in seeking additional funding for
PNGO 1.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Despite a strong interest by donors in the work of the NGO sector, none of the ongoing or proposed
donor-funded projects provide the framework offered through this project for NGOs to participate in the
definition of project priorities. One aspect undermining Palestinian NGO efforts has been the continued
requirement that NGOs define their programns according to donor priorities. It is hoped that this project,
through its emphasis on capacity building and learning, will strengthen NGO capacity to acquire strategic
planning skills and thereby contribute to the sector's continued growth, sustainability and heightened appeal
to local and international donors.
PNGO I raised interest within and outside the Bank as a unique and efficient way to rely on the NGOs'
comparative advantage in addressing the needs of the poor and marginalized. Through this project, the
Bank will continue to bring to West Bank and Gaza the lessons learnt from the World Bank's international
experience of partnership with NGOs and to draw on the project's lessons for application elsewhere.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The Bank's 2001 Poverty Assessment Report has confirrned that one out of five in the West Bank and Gaza
continue to live below the poverty line. This proportion is reported to have risen considerably as a direct
impact of prolonged closures in recent months and currently 30 percent of the population is estimated to
live below the poverty line. While poverty alleviation will be sought as a long-term outcome of the project,
the project will place emphasis on measurement of impact on intermediate indicators such as on
unemployment rates, pre-education enrollment, income levels etc.
Criteria for the approval of sub-projects will focus on: (i) the extent to which these sub-projects address
priority issues in any of the pre-selected areas; (ii) their expected economic and social impact on the poor;
(iii) proposed specific steps to ensure sustainability; (iv) action plans for institutional support to partner
NGOs; and (v) lead partner NGO competence and management capacity. The elaboration of this
information by the Partnership Grants Managers (PGMs) will be supported through preparatory assistance
funds to be provided for pre-investment.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ mnillion; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The proposed grant of US$ 8 million will cover almost 69 percent of the total estimated project cost. The
Bank's resources are apportioned against the procurement of goods (30 percent), works (15 percent),
services (40 percent) and training (15 percent). Other donor contributions would be apportioned similarly.
Project management costs (which exclude support for NGO capacity building and M&E) will account for
13 percent of the total project cost. In addition to that, 8 percent of the funds allocated to the Partnership
- 16 -



Grants Program will cover management costs by the PGMs. It is estimated that the total percentage of
direct and indirect management cost to would come to 18 percent of the total project cost. This percentage
takes into account the need to: (i) implement an active and systematic approach of hands-on capacity
building; (ii) promote information exchange, networking and cross fertilization between projects; and (iii)
support the application and monitoring of strict measures of accountability and achievement of success
indicators. It compares favorably with the management costs commonly associated with NGO umbrella
grant funds in the West Bank and Gaza and similar projects intemationally, although other projects do not
imply such a comprehensive approach to sector capacity building.
Communities/grant recipients will be expected to contribute just over US$1.0 million to the project. As the
Bank is prohibited from paying for VAT, this sum would cover the equivalent of a VAT rate of 15 percent
on the total expected non-personnel cost of the project, estimated at just over 50 percent of total project
cost. The explicit need to raise such contributions, even if in-kind, is consistent with the project's quest for
sustainability. This kind of contribution by communities/NGOs was provided under Phase I of the project.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact on public resources will be positive to the extent that public sector services will be
complemented and enhanced through the project.
3. Technical:
The design of the project assumes adequate technical capacity on the part of the PGMs and Development
Grants Recipients (DGRs) For both these groups, a thorough assessment of capabilities will provide clear
criteria against which NGO proposals will be evaluated and selected. For PGMs that participated as Block
Grant Managers under Phase I, and for medium capacity NGOs selected as potential beneficiaries of a
second round of development grants, assessment of technical capacity will draw extensively on the track
record of these NGOs and on the evaluation of their roles as presented in the findings of the "Assessment
Study for Block Grants" and the PNGO I Impact Assessment for Development Grant recipient NGOs. For
PGMs, the assessment of technical ability will include specific attention to capacity to provide institutional
support to smaller NGOs.
Nonetheless, it is recognized that there will be a need to support the technical capacity of PGMs and DGRs
in a number of areas, such as output-based budgeting, fund raising, reporting and participatory impact
assessments. Opportunities for capacity building in these areas will be provided through the TA
component. Out-sourced expertise will be sought by the PMO for the delivery of such specialized training.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The capacity of participating NGOs to implement projects will be appraised on a case by case basis, as
outlined above. Criteria provided in the concept papers developed for the three components will be used
after refinement of the project's Operational Manual.
4.2 Project management:
The decision by the Bank to renew its contract with WAC takes into account: (i) performance under Phase
I; (ii) the capacity built and lessons leamt so far by the PMO; (iii) the value of contacts and networks that
WACIPMO has established and nurtured; and, (iv) the unique status of WAC/PMO as a Palestinian
Organization that enjoys intemational standing and credibility, and that does not compete with sister
- 17-



Palestinian organizations.
Areas for improvement in PMO's performance have been detailed in various studies, reports and audits.
These have been discussed with the Welfare Association and agreement has been reached on how they will
be addressed. The streamlining of procedures will be undertaken during the initial phase of the project as
part of the PMO's commitment to revising the Operational Manual. In so doing, the PMO will be guided
by the recommendations of the preparation study entitled "A Review of Sub-Grant Procedures and
Administration" and by the proposals outlined in preparation concept papers on the three components. The
appraisal mission underlined the need for the PMO to enhance its expertise in M&E. It has been agreed that
this will be addressed by hiring short-term consultancy support along with a redefinition of staff functions
to re-assign staff with appropriate expertise.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Bank's procurement guidelines continue to be applied by recipient/participating NGOs. No
procurement problems have arisen under PNGO I. The Procurement Audit of PNGO I recommended that
PMO staff receive training on World Bank Procurement Guidelines. This will be provided in the initial
period of project implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The PMO's financial management system was reviewed in February 2000 and no significant weaknesses
were noted. IDA has received annual unqualified audited financial statements for PNGO I each year and
on time. Because of the need for the PMO to submit Project Management Reports under PNGO II, an
action plan has been developed to ensure compliance with this new requirement. The project's Special
Accounts and statements of expenditures will be audited annually by an international auditor under terms
of reference acceptable to IDA
5. Environmental:                  Enviromnental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The sub-projects that will be funded under PNGO II will not require extensive land acquisition or
involuntary resettlement, nor are they likely to affect any known historical or archaeological sites. It is
envisioned that most of the project will focus on capacity building among NGOs. A few of the sub-projects
may include small civil works such as rehabilitation of village schools, clinics or kindergartens, which
would have very minor environmental impacts.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project appraisal procedures for all sub-projects includes consideration of potential environmental
impacts by the PMO in confonnity with guidelines established under PNGO I. Accordingly, a formal EMP
is not required for this project. Environmental mitigation and monitoring measures will be included in
sub-project design where necessary.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan'? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
- 18-



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The increasing levels of poverty in WBG have placed pressure on NGOs to expand their services despite
limited funding. The project's emphasis on access to and quality of basic services represents an important
contribution to NGO efforts to improve their targeting to the poor, and the impact of their interventions.
The issue of marginality will also be addressed by the project. In part this will be done through deliberate
targeting of areas, sectors and/or target groups to be supported. It will also be addressed by supporting
analysis of policies that impact on marginality. The project will seek to replicate PNGO I efforts to develop
a framework for gender mainstreaming and targeting other marginalized groups.
Geographic Targeting: The Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS) and the World Bank have
produced detailed poverty assessment reports that disaggregated data to 712 localities. This information
will be used to screen projects, particularly those that are area-based.
Gender Mainstreaming: As statistics confirm that women are more vulnerable to poverty in the West Bank
and Gaza, the guidelines established during the first phase of the project for targeting women will be
incorporated in the Operational Manual for PNGO II. A copy of these guidelines are available on file.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The poor and marginalized will have an opportunity to participate in the design of projects. Smaller NGOs
will be required to promote community involvement in planning and monitoring. The PMO will employ
expertise to support PGMs in this effort.
The NGOs will participate in setting priorities for the project. Through the Partnership Grants Program,
NGOs will be asked to submit proposals based on priorities they have identified in consultation with
smaller NGOs. As partners, the smaller NGOs will provide input to the identification of specific
interventions.
As participants in the Supervisory Board, NGOs will take part in the pre-selection of regions, sectors
and/or target groups. Subsequently, they will participate in the approval of grants and in defining the
Sector Support component of the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During the preparation, NGOs were involved in project design through their membership of the Local
Consultative Working Group. Their views were widely solicited by various preparation consultants. NGOs
will continue to be actively engaged through their membership of the Supervisory Board.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The promotion of a twinning partnership approach to service delivery represents a key measure in
achieving lasting impact, as does the project's emphasis on drawing on the strengths of existing structures
- 19-



in support of capacity building. The broadening of the Supervisory Board will contribute to an enhanced
sense of ownership of the project and clear opportunities for dialogue and information exchange, both of
which are important for supporting a more strategic role for the sector.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
In the area of service delivery, the achievement of development outputs will be measured by comparing
data collected at the end of the project with baseline data developed for the individual sub-projects funded
during project initiation. Beneficiary assessments will serve as another tool for reviewing the impact and
responsiveness of sub-projects to community needs. Longer term monitoring of sub-project outcomes will
require the development of a system to monitor access and quality of service delivery schemes. The
involvement of the PCBS and other NGOs in this effort will be sought.
In the area of sector support, milestones will be established against which project performance will be
monitored. Information on this topic will be provided in the progress reports to be submitted to the
Supervisory Board.
A limited set of indicators for measuring the project's developmental impact are provided in Annex 1. More
detailed indicators will be developed and reflected in sub-project and project action plans.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, HP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4,37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Operational Manual will include the consideration of potential environmental impacts as part of the
appraisal process for approval of sub-projects.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
With a modest budget of USS 16 million, impact and sustainability are better served by concentrating
funding on a selected number of programs. In contrast to PNGO I, institutional impact will not be
measured by the total number of small NGOs receiving funds but by the degree to which those
NGOs/CBOs are able to develop programs with measurable benefits and the prospect of sustained activity.
The proposed TA activities are integral to the project's pursuit of sustainability. The lead NGOs to be
contracted under the Partnership Grants Program will be obliged to provide strong institution-building
assistance to their smaller partners, a process expected to influence the strategic orientation of both the
- 20 -



large and small NGOs. The Development Grants Program will widen the circle of these strong NGOs by
providing targeted capacity building assistance to medium-level NGOs with the potential to become more
effective and influential. The support that will be provided to strong NGOs and to the five NGO networks
in terms of training, policy dialogue, information exchange fund-raising and financial management, will
also enhance NGO's professional credentials and financial sustainability.
In light of the evident economic crisis in WBG and the sharp increase in poverty, reliance on NGOs has
increased, as has their dependence on donor financing. PNGO II offers an opportunity to look at alternative
strategies for funding, i.e. improved cost recovery, direct fund-raising with donors and enhanced support
from the PA. The project will finance studies and technical assistance to explore and promote models of
partnerships with the private sector. Opportunities for joint progranmming between PA and NGO-financed
service delivery schemes will be explored, as will NGO participation in policy development. The project
will also benefit from inputs from the Charities Aid Foundation and other international organizations that
will bring to the project global experience in public/civil society partnerships and cost-recovery schemes.
Finally, with the creation of a Supervisory Board which involves both civil society and the PA, and in
which a broad range of civil society representatives are given a significant decision-making role, the
groundwork will be laid for the possible establishment of a Palestinian NGO Foundation. The potential for
creating such an institution will be reviewed formally after 21 months of PNGO II effectiveness.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth colurn of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mtiation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
A severe deterioration in the overall        S        As the proposed project targets community
situation in West Bank and Gaza and its               needs through support to NGOs as key service
implications on Bank operations,                      providers, it will remain highly relevant in a
including on PNGO II.                                 situation of continued emergency. In the event of
further political deterioration coupled with
constraints on mobility, the project's emphasis
on an integrated approach to capacity building
will be played down in favor of an increased
emphasis on emergency interventions. Flexibility
in the definition of sectoral and geographic
priorities should make it possible to do so
without seriously compromising the proposed
design. Expected additional funding would help
financing small scale emergency projects to
respond to the needs of communities under
situations of hardship.
Funding to the NGO sector will decrease,    M         The project's emphasis on financial autonomy
making it more difficult for successful                should help mitigate this risk, as should efforts
NGOs/projects to attract funding to                   at joint programming with the PA and the
sustain/replicate their projects.                     private sector.
- 21 -



Reliance on large NGOs may further         M         This factor will be minimized, as a certain
exacerbate the asymmetrical tendencies of            percentage sub-grants will be allocated to
Palestinian society and possibly weaken              strengthen the capacity of small NGOs based on
CBOs.                                                comprehensive plans that will be closely
monitored.
Potential mismanagement by the PGMs        N         No incidents of mismanagement of funds have
and other beneficiary NGOs of funds.                 been reported during PNGO I, largely due to the
soundness of the financial controls employed by
the PMO. Annual audits of sub-projects provide
an additional and essential mitigation factor.
Given the high level of politicization of  M         The Bank's right of "No Objection" would
the NGO sector in WBG, there is a risk               protect against any politicization of a program
that the project can be used in pursuit of           that has a clear service-delivery focus.
NGO further political interests.
Competition between NGOs may                S        The allocation under the project of funding for
undernine efforts to promote information             documenting "best practices" should provide an
sharing and openness amongst NGOs.                   incentive for NGOs to share infonnation about
their projects.
Disfunctionality of the Supervisory Board  H         The failure by the Board to deliver on
and its inability to deliver on its role may         submissions by the PMO according to a set
seriously undermine the PMO's capacity               time-frame will automatically give the PMO
to perform, resulting in delays and                  authority to proceed without a Board
reduced project impact.                              endorsement of its submission. Finally, the
Bank's no objection right for decisions that have
a major impact on project design will serve as a
safeguard against major shifts in the project's
thrusts and overall objectives.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate donor co-financing.             M         Interest has been expressed by a number of Gulf
states and European countries in the project. It
is expected that commitments will be received
by the time the project becomes effective.
NGO representatives will not be able to     S        The development of thorough working
put aside vested interests, and this will            procedures, including a clear policy on conflict
impair the soundness of decision-making              of interest should minimize this risk. The
and the effectiveness of the consultation            involvement of independent individuals on the
process.                                             Board should also offset the impact of political
affiliations.
WAC/PMO fails to play the key role of a     S        A detailed budget and organigram, as well as
facilitator that offers value added in               Terms of Reference for the consortium partners
capacity building and gives it legitimacy            were discussed and approved at Negotiations.
amongst the NGOs                                     These elements will be closely monitored by
IDA supervision missions.
- 22 -



| Overall Risk Rating               I       s         |
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Grant effectiveness will be made conditional upon:
i) the establishment of the Supervisory Board with membership and Terms of Reference satisfactory to
Bank; and,
ii) the submission by the PMO to the supervisory board of a draft revised Operational Manual satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
i) final endorsement of the Operational Manual by the Supervisory Board and its submission through the
PMO to IDA would be a condition of disbursement for categories I and 2.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
a_    _______        /                                                    {L,
Simadf-Luam,                      Doris Koehn                        Nigel Roberts
Team Leader                       Sector Director                    Country Direct r
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (II)
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty Alleviation        Selected poverty indicators    Palestinian Bureau of   The peace process will be
amongst communities        Statistics; Poverty Mapping   resumed allowing for a
targeted by NGOs (drop in   and Reports.               reversal of the recent decline
unemployment rates;                                    in economic growth and the
enhanced skills of women;                              allocation of considerable
increased access to sources of                         resources to meeting
income generation; wider                               emergency needs.
possession of assets).
Promotion of Good          By-laws passed and policies   Track record of PA policies   Internal political stability and
Governance                 implemented promote a more  and of new laws enacted and  enforcement of law and order.
responsive framework for the  assessments of violations of
poor in society, and greater   legal by-laws.
accountability and
transparency in the NGO    Sector study of NGOs
sector.                    examining internal
procedures.
Perceptions of better
governance amongst the poor Survey of views of the poor
improve.                   and marginalized groups.
- 24 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To strengthen the capacity of  Over 60% of beneficiaries  A mid-point beneficiary  A sufficient level of stability
NGOs to deliver sustainable   express satisfaction of services impact assessment together   and freedom of mobility will
services to poor and       provided through NGOs.      and ongoing analysis of PMIS permit NGOs to continue to
marginalized Palestinians,                             output level data.          perform their regular
thereby supporting the overall At least 60% of services                             developmental programs.
professional and strategic  provided by Development    Institutional capacity
development of the         Grant Recipients and 50% of  assessment using the OCAT
Palestinian NGO sector.    services provided by        or similar methods.         Improved services affect
Partnership Grant recipients                            beneficiary lives in a way that
are sustainable beyond the    A database for tracking donor efficiently targets the needs of
lifetime of the project.   financing of NGO activity in  the poor and marginalized in
WBG                         WBG.
At least 50 NGOs are assessed
to have increased their     Final project evaluations and
capacity to plan, manage and  external client surveys
secure longer-term funding
for their service delivery  Supervision Reports
programs.
Participatory Capacity
Assessments
Project records, results of
client surveys and interviews
with NGO networks and line
ministries.
- 25 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. A range of services are  At least 60% of target    Results of monitoring by   The level of donor funding to
provided by small NGOs in   beneficiaries come from the   PGMs, DGRs and PMO and   NGO activities and programs
key sectors and for the   lower poverty group or are    project progress reports.  will be maintained, if not
targeted poor and          amongst those marginalized                            increased
marginalized groups        due to physical and/or social
constraints.
2. A range of services are                            A mid-point beneficiary    PGMs are able to identify
provided by a selected group   Over 60% of client     impact assessment and final  field-based NGOs/CBOs
of medium-sized NGOs       satisfaction with the      project evaluation.        interested in engaging
responsiveness of services.                           community groups in
articulating their needs.
3. Capacity of PGMs and    5 PGMs and 5 DGRs trained  Institutional capacity     Partnership with field-based
DGRs is further strengthened  in using tools employed for   assessment using the  NGOs/CBOs provides an
allowing for more effective    capacity building and  Organizational capacity    effective model for
implementation and         community participation.   assessment tools.          accompaniment and
monitoring and evaluation of                                                     engagement of communities
projects                                                                         in project design and
implementation.
At least 60% of sub-projects  Project monitoring and  NGOs are interested in
have met their objectives and  evaluation reports.    sharing information and in
achieved the impact sought in                         utilizing knowledge to better
their success indicators.                             enhance their strategies and
performance.
Over 75 NGOs have received PMIS generated data.
information and orientation                           Relationships between the
on the NGO website.                                   different NGO networks and
between the networks and the
PA are not negatively
challenged/impacted by the
reemergence of a more active
political discourse.
4. Use of institutionalized  At least 5 documents/reports  Record of publications and
mechanisms for improved    have been published        reviews, project records,
learning, information      providing strategic analysis of results of client surveys and
exchange and policy        NGO role in service delivery. interviews with NGO
development within the NGO                            networks and line ministries.
sector and with the PA and
civil society.
At least 2 NGO financing
models have been researched
for their adaptability to NGO
activity in West Bank and
Gaza.
- 26 -



Frequency and regularity of
NGO participation in policy
discussions of development
strategies and planning with
PA and civil society.
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                              Outputs)
1. Partnership Grants                                  Monitoring and Evaluation    The materialization of donor
Program:                                               Reports, Bank supervision,    commitment to project
1. I The implementation of 5/8 USS 8.5 million will be  PMO records, local and     co-financing.
service delivery projects of an budgeted for this component.  international audits of PMO
average value of US$ 1.0    This will cover PGM        and sub-grantee finances
million by 5/8 consortia   management cost at no higher
consisting of a Lead Partner  than 8% and an allocation of                          Sufficient interest and
NGO and smaller             7% of total project budget to                           capacity amongst NGOs to
NGOs/CBOs                   capacity building                                       commit to a long term
engagement that requires
7% of project budgets will be                          considerable commitment to
1.2 Based on prior mapping of allocated to capacity building                       capacity building and
needs, the provision of     . These funds will also be used                        community participation
institutional building support  to cover pre-feasibility studies
to some 380 partner NGOs    as the cost of these will be                           With an enhanced sense of
through well coordinated    assumed in the overall budget                           ownership, the NGO networks
activities that emphasize   once the projects have been                             will demonstrate their ability
accompaniment through       approved.                                              to put aside vested interests
long-term experts and                                                               and rivalries by engaging
skills-transfer                                                                    professionally in supporting
the project and its activities
1.3 The establishment of
networks as forums for                                                             The PA gives sufficient
cross-fertilization between                                                         political support to the project
participation BGMs and                                                              and actively participates in
NGOs                                                                                project management
structures
- 27 -



12. The Development Grants
Program
The financing of 10 projects   USS 2.5 million will be  Same as above
with NGOs that demonstrated budgeted for this component.
exceptional performance    Of that, an estimated US$
during Phase I of the project  300,000 will be allocated to
providing organizational
The funding of targeted    development support
capacity building support to
recipient NGOs
(consultancies, organizational
restructuring)
3. Sector Support Program
A total of US$ 1.5 million    Annual action plans and  WAC/PMO will demonstrate
The establishment of an NGO  will be set aside to fund  semi-annual Progress Reports sufficient capacity to play the
website in the form of a   activities under this                                 role of an active partner, able
virtual resources centre   component                                             to help promote a dynamic
environment for enhancing
Establishment of a code of                                                       dialogue and interaction
ethics                                                                           around project activities
Development of a system of                                                       Supervisory Board members
quality standards for NGO                                                        are able to engage in an
services                                                                         effective dialogue that results
in the timely identification of
Publication of strategic                                                         key priorities for the Sector
documents on the NGO sector                                                      Support Program
There is sufficient interest
amongst the NGO networks to,
assume leading positions in
supporting various activities
under this component
4. TA, M&E and Audit
Provision of capacity building A total of US$ 0.5 million    OCAT results; sub-project
support to PGMs and DGRs   will be set aside for this  proposals and annual action
component                  plans and monitoring
Elaboration of M&E                                    information on output
frameworks, including                                 delivery
adaptation of OCAT
The completion of client
surveys and other forms of
evaluation and review.
- 28 -



5. Emergency Grants
The financing of small grants Funding made available for   Monitoring reports and  Donors continue to have
through NGOs for the       this component will not come regular field visits     sufficient interest in allocating
alleviation of hardships  from the core budget of the                            funds for emergency-type
related to the emergency   project. Additional donor                             projects
financing will be mobilized
6. Program Management    A total of US$ 2 million is set
aside to fund the overhead
management costs of the
WAC/PMO.
- 29 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (11)
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$9.50 million
The Partnership Grants Program
Program Objectives:
The program aims at enhancing the availability, quality and sustainability of services provided to
marginalized communities. By supporting a longer-term accompaniment relationship between
large/capable NGOs and smaller NGOs/CBOs, it also aims at:
i.   improving the organizational and technical capacity of the smaller NGOs to deliver quality
services;
ii.  supporting access by these organizations to increased levels of funding;
iii.  promoting increased learning and the sharing of experiences between NGOs at varying
capacity levels;
iv.  expanding the reach of larger NGOs to marginalized communities through a larger network of
field-based NGOs/CBOs; and,
v.   promoting best-practices as a core project strategy for enhancing the attractiveness of
NGO-managed projects to donors.
Targeting Strategy:
The PGP will target, as immediate beneficiaries of the program, smaller NGOs/CBOs that will be
selected by lead partner NGOs, based on criteria to be reflected in the revised Operational Manual.
The Program will target, as final beneficiaries, poor and marginalized groups within the Palestinian
society who are unable to acquire, or have limited access to, services to secure their social and
economic needs. The PGP will finance a mix of projects that, in their totality, address the needs of i)
populations particularly under-served or marginalized due to their geographic location; ii) population
groups particularly vulnerable due to social or physical limitations (e.g. women, youth, and the
disabled); and iii) sectors/sub-sectors defined as priority due to limited resources available for their
support.
Program Partners/Implementors
The PGP will be implemented through 5-8 consortia of NGOs. Each consortium will consist of one
large NGO, to be referred to as the lead partner or the Partnership Grants Manager (PGM), and a
group of 10-15 small NGOs/CBOs. To implement the program, the lead partner may choose to
engage with other medium-level capacity NGOs who have specific expertise that can contribute to
the success of the program. The number of potential small NGOs/CBOs will be determined based on
criteria elaborated in the concept paper.
Eligibility criteria for lead partners.
Palestinian NGOs will qualify as lead partners provided that they meet all of the following general
and organizational capacity requirements:
* The proposed program does not exceed an agreed percentage of the organization's average total
budget over a two-year period.
- 30 -



The organization has an adequate level of physical presence and means of mobility within the
proposed area(s) of activity (offices, vehicles, staff, other projects).
* The organization has a minimum of 5 years of proven experience in community development or
will engage other NGOs to bring such expertise to the program.
The organization has a minimum of 3 years of experience in working with local partners.
* The organization has proven experience and suitable approaches to capacity building and
organizational development, or will engage with other NGOs to bring such expertise to the program.
* The organization has adequate staffing skills to meet the objectives of the program.
International NGOs may be brought in as "support-lead partners" if the lead Palestinian NGO
chooses to engage in such an arrangement to benefit from the NGO's expertise.
Capacity building for small NGOs/CBOs is an integral objective of the PGP for which 7% of sub-project
budgets will be allocated. The proposal submitted by the PGM would identify a detailed capacity building
plan based on a mapping of existing capacity using the OCAT tool.
Project Component 2 - US$2.50 million
The Development Grants Program
Description:
The Development Grants Program (DGP) will fund direct implementation of a total of 10-15
projects by NGOs which have demonstrated success in managing quality projects during PNGO I.
Projects will be financed in the range of US$ 50,000 - US$ 300,000. The Program will also set
aside funds for tailor-made capacity building and institutional development support for recipient
NGOs.
Program Objectives:
The program aims at i) enhancing the sustainability of a selected number of projects successfully
implemented during Phase I; and, ii) through targeted capacity building, assisting medium-level
capacity NGOs to graduate to higher capacity levels that will allow them to effectively sustain their
programs.
Targeting Strategy:
The DGP will target, as immediate beneficiaries of the program, medium capacity NGOs which have
demonstrated competence, according to set criteria, in managing projects that demonstrate clear
potential for greater impact and sustainability. Successful projects that have potential for replication
in other areas or which can be expanded to provide supplementary services to communities served
would also be eligible for grants under this component.
Communities selected under projects to be funded are the ultimate beneficiaries of this project
component. Criteria for comrnunity selection will draw on statistics available and cited elsewhere in
this Annex.
Monitoring and Evaluation of both Partnership and Development Grant programs:
The monitoring of projects will be done according to specific success indicators and the realization
of scheduled outputs. An output-based scheme of monitoring will link transfers of funds to the
achievement of agreed milestones. The NGO will have the flexibility of making program
modifications, within a ceiling of 10% of reallocations between budget categories, beyond which the
approval of the PMO is necessary. According to set criteria, to be approved by the Supervisory
- 31 -



Board, a project that is not performing according to plans and set milestones may be put on risk and,
if no improvements are achieved, later suspended.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.50 million
The Sector Support Program (SSP)
Objective:
The overall objective of the SSP program is to help the NGO sector become more strategic in its
thinking and more responsive to the basic needs of the poor and marginalized. In particular the SSP
aims to:
1. facilitate more professional association within the NGO sector through improved mechanisms
for information exchange, networking, and strategic/policy dialogue;
2. support improved levels of coordination, cooperation and joint programming between NGOs
and between the NGO sector, the PA and the private sector through a more systematic and
strategic engagement of NGOs in policy formulation and strategic planning;
3. support longer-term financial sustainability of the sector through new and improved
mechanisms for resource mobilization; and,
4. strengthen the technical and managerial capacity of NGO networks to become more effective in
supporting and representing their member organizations.
Target Beneficiaries:
The SSP will target interventions at the sector level. It will, in particular target strong NGOs, NGO
networks and other unions and sub-sector coalitions (e.g. youth unions, farmers unions).
Description of Sub-Components:
The SSP program will comprise four sub-components that correspond to the four outlined objectives
of the program. Specific interventions to be supported and financed under the sub-components will
be defined in annual action plans to be developed in the initial phase by the Supervisory Board and
the PMO. The flexibility embraced in this proposal takes into account the need for this component to
be dynamic and interactive. Following is a proposal for the types of interventions that can be
financed under the four sub-components and indicative budget allocations.
Sub-Component One: Networking, information sharing and supporting a culture of learning (c.
US$ 400,000):
NGO Website: The website will take the form of a virtual resource center and will serve as a forum
for dialogue, networking and access. The NGO website will be contracted based on a competitive
process. A Steering Committee whose members will be selected by the Supervisory Board will
oversee the management of the content build-up of the website (about US$ 300,000).
Other activities may include research, documentation, and dissemination of successful field
experiences/case studies and best practices; fielding study tours for Board members and lead
partners to successful projects; and, organization of Round Table Discussions.
Sub-component Two: Policy articulation for the sector and its role in development (c. US$
450,000)
Activities may include the elaboration of an NGO Code of Ethics; a set of quality standards for
- 32 -



services provided by NGOs; campaigns for promoting the spirit of volunteerism and the elaboration
of relevant legal frameworks; and campaigns for promoting private sector investment in social
services.
Sub-component Three: Longer-term financial sustainability of the sector (c. US$250,000)
Activities may include studies, semninars and research analysis on alternative models of financial
sustainability of the sector. Examples of such interventions may include testing of models for
cost-recovery; promotion and advocacy for the role of the private sector in supporting social
investments; advocacy and promotion for the concept and practice of voluntary work and
contributions; elaboration and advocacy for laws that enhance the attractiveness of private sector
investments in social services delivery; researching models of public sector sub-contracting of NGOs
in service delivery.
Sub-component Four: Support to the networks (c. US$450,000)
During the initial six months of the project, the Supervisory Board will agree on the modality for
undertaking an assessment of the capacity building needs of the networks. An action plan will be
accordingly developed which will identify the beneficiaries of the program and the areas where
technical support is needed. Interventions may include technical assistance through individual
consultants (organizational development; analyses of internal systems; internal by-laws and
regulations); on-the-job training of board members, executive body and staff of the networks;
management support; information processing.
Project Component 4 - US$0.50 million
Technical Assistance (TA), Monitoring and Evaluation, and Audits
National/international expertise will be provided to a) support capacity gaps in areas that relate to effective
management and implementation of the partnership/development grants programs (community
participation, M&E, fund-raising etc); b) develop M&E and targeting tools, including adaptation of
Organizational Capacity Assessment Tool and pre-investment and targeting studies (NGO client survey);
and c) conduct overall program evaluations, including annual financial and management audits, a
Mid-Term Review, evaluations of the governance structure and the potential for developing the Supervisory
Board.
Project Component 5 - US$2.00 million
Project Management
The management by the PMO of the overall program including the management of the grant awarding
process, overall supervision of sub-projects, provision of technical expertise to sub-grant managers and
reporting on and dissemination of project impact. The PMO will also facilitate dialogue between various
stakeholders and administer the implementation of the third component including the procurement of
expertise, organization of workshops/seminars and the provision of referral services.
- 33 -



Project Component 6 - US$0.00 million
Emergency Grants Program
This component would support emergency grants of up to US$ 100,000, intended to provide emergency
employment, finance income generation activities, expand/rehabilitate basic health service facilities and
commnunity centers and rehabilitation services. The Bank would attempt to mobilize funding for this
component and its administration from other donors.
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (11)
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Partnership Grants Program                                    8.29          0.50          8.79
Development Grants Program                                    2.30          0.20          2.50
Sector Support Program                                        1.03          0.30          1.33
Technical Assistance and M&E                                  0.10          0.40          0.50
Project Management Cost                                       1.70          0.20          1.90
Total Baseline Cost                                          13.42          1.60         15.02
Physical Contingencies                                       0.23          0.25          0.48
Price Contingencies                                          0.35          0.15          0.50
Total Project Costs               14.00          2.00          16.00
Total Financing Required                14.00          2.00         16.00
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                          3.84            0.00          3.84
Works                                                          2.40            0.00          2.40
Services                                                       5.61            1.40          7.01
Training                                                        0.25           0.50          0.75
Operating Expenditures                                          1.90           0.10          2.00
Total Project Costs      14.00           2.00         16.00
Total Financing Required       14.00           2.00         16.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 16 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 50% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 35 -



Annex 4: Socio-Economic Aspects
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (11)
Given the nature and size of the projects, and given that PNGO II would be demand driven, no detailed
economic analysis can be undertaken ex ante. However, basic economic indicators such as costs/job
created or costs /beneficiary would be estimated during appraisal of individual microprojects, as stipulated
in the Operations Manual. Also, all sub-projects will be subject to a socio-economic analysis.
Criteria for the approval of sub-projects will focus on: (i) the extent to which these sub-projects address
priority issues in any of the pre-selected areas; (ii) their expected economic and social impact on the poor;
(iii) proposed specific steps to ensure sustainability; (iv) action plans for institutional support to partner
NGOs; and (v) lead partner NGO competence and management capacity. The elaboration of this
information by the Partnership Grants Managers (PGMs) will be supported through preparatory assistance
funds to be provided for pre-investment.
Communities/grant recipients will be expected to contribute just over US$1.0 million to the project. As the
Bank is prohibited from paying for VAT, this sum would cover the equivalent of a VAT rate of 15 percent
on the total expected non-personnel cost of the project, estimated at just over 50 percent of total project
cost. The explicit need to raise such contributions, even if in-kind, is consistent with the project's quest for
sustainability. This kind of contribution by comrnunities/NGOs was provided under Phase I of the project.
Target Population: The poor and marginalized in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, estimated at about 30%
of the Palestinian population at the end of 2000, are the ultimate target beneficiaries of the project.
Estimnates of the total number of beneficiaries, by gender and age, will be developed once the grant
programs are approved. An estimated total number of 5/8 large NGOs, 10-15 medium-level NGOs and
80-100 smaller NGOs/CBOs, are expected to benefit from the project's capacity building initiatives.
Benefits: Services to the poor and marginalized will be strengthened and expanded under the project. The
introduction of a new model that focuses funding on a selected number of NGOs is likely to have a larger
impact on the communities/sectors affected. The elaboration of profiles of communities to be targeted and
of specific strategies for addressing their needs should enhance the success of specific sub-projects. Both
strong and small NGOs/CBOs will benefit as a result of the partnerships they will forge under the
Partnership Grants Program. Strong NGOs will benefit from building their capacity to manage umbrella
grants for smaller NGOs. They will also benefit from an opportunity to expand their partnerships with
smaller NGOs, thereby enhancing their reach to marginalized communities. Both these factors should help
address the existing gap in the capacity levels between small and large NGOs, the concentration of funding
in the hands of the larger few, and the reported bias of larger NGOs programs towards urban areas. The
Partnership Grants Program is therefore expected to bring significant benefits to smaller NGOs in terms of
better access to donor funding and to technical expertise available to the larger NGOs. To ensure the
effectiveness of this approach, PGM proposals would be evaluated in great part on the quality of their
capacity building plans for smaller NGOs. Moreover, all NGOs participating in the Partnership Grants
Program will benefit from networks to be established under the program, in terms of cross-fertilization and
information exchange. Medium-capacity NGOs will benefit from additional funds to extend successful
projects to the point of sustainability. Their access to customized institutional support will also give these
NGOs a better chance to graduate to higher professional capacity and financial autonomy. Finally, the
NGO sector at large will benefit from activities to support the institutional capacity of the NGO networks
as well as improving networking opportunities, information exchange and the promotion of a culture of
learning.
The Fiscal Impact on public resources will be positive to the extent that public sector services will be
complemented and enhanced through the project.
- 36 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (11)
Years Ending
2004
Year I 1   Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Year 5 L Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.2       5.9        3.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.8        1.1        0.4       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          5.0       7.0        4.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              5.0       7.0        4.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  2.6        3.4        2.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             2.1        3.1        1.8       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.3        0.5        0.2       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     5.0        7.0       4.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
User fees are calculated at 15% of non-personnel project costs, amounting to US$ 1 million.
Expenditures are expected to peak in the middle year as no grants are expected to be awarded during the first
six months of project implementation.
- 37 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (11)
Procurement
1. General:
As per the requirements of the Bank Procurement Guidelines, a procurement review of first the
PNGO project was undertaken. The Procurement Review was done on an estimated 10% of sub-projects
funded through the Block Grants and Development Grant Schemes. A full report with findings and
recommendations was prepared and is included in the files. The Audit report concluded that procurement
was carried out in line with procurement guidelines as stipulated in the Trust Fumd Grant Agreement, the
Project Appraisal Document and the Operational Manual.
The Report concluded that proper procurement planning was undertaken; that procurement
approaches/methodologies of the PMO, the Block Grant Managers (BGMs), and the Development Grant
Recipients varied but were largely done in an appropriate manner and that no particular incidents were
reported raising doubts on the soundness of contracting undertaken at any of the three mentioned levels.
The Report, however, recommended the following: i) the need for the staff of PMO, future Partnership
Grant Managers (PGMs) and Development Grant Recipients to be trained on Bank Procurement
Guidelines; ii) the need for introducing improvements in the overall quality of bid preparation; iii) the
importance of providing sufficient detailed procurement guidelines in the revised Operational Manual; and
iv) the need for improvements in the filing system maintained by the PMO of procurement documents.
A Procurement Law guiding procurement of public works has been ratified by the Palestinian
Legislative Council and was signed by President Yasser Arafat in December 1999. Though the provisions
of the Law are largely in line with World Bank Procurement Guidelines, two clauses depart from Bank's
Guidelines as follows: Clause No. 16 calls for a rebid or/and allows for negotiations if the number of
bidders is less than three and if the bids are considered unrealistic, incomplete or subject to conditions.
Clause No. 25 allows for negotiations if the lowest bid is above the market price. There is no reference in
the Procurement Law to the procurement of consultancy services. In general, transparency and competition
are guaranteed in the local procurement regulations. However, implementing agencies such as the PMO,
Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR) use theIDA Guidelines for
Procurement.
2. Use of Bank Procurement Guidelines:
Procurement would be in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1999), using standardized local bidding procedures and contract forms.
3. Advertising:
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised in the "United Nations Development
Business" (UNDB) and bidders who have expressed an interest would be notified directly by the PMO.
4. The Procurement Capacity:
The Procurement Capacity of PMO staff is adequate. However, as per the recommendation of the
Procurement review, training on Bank Procurement Guidelines and Procedures is necessary and would be
- 38 -



provided to PMO staff as well as to PGMs and DGMs. The training would include a full review of Bank
Guidelines, bidding and bidding evaluation procedures. Procurement seminars/workshops would therefore
be held in the West Bank and Gaza during the first year of project operation.
5. Procurement Plan:
A Procurement Plan with details for first year of implementation is attached in table B 1 below.
6. Procurement Implementation Arrangements:
The PMO would be responsible for managing the procurement of all technical services to be provided
under Component III - Sector Support; Component IV - Technical Assistance and M&E; and, Component
V - Project Management. Partnership Grant Managers (PGMs) would be responsible for direct
procurement as well as for overseeing that procurement done by NGO sub-grant recipients follows Bank
procedures and, more specifically, the procurement guidelines detailed in the Operational Manual.
Development Grant Managers (DGMs) would be responsible for direct procurement for their sub-projects.
The PMO would continue to be responsible for overall monitoring of procurement activities and
compliance of contractors and suppliers with contract provisions at all levels, including at the level of
sub-project beneficiaries.
7. Procurement Methods
-     Civil works: As investment in civil works would only be provided to complement the financing of
technical assistance/service proposals, its share is not likely to exceed 15% of the total project budget. The
size of civil works would range between US$ 10,000 and US$ 150,000. Therefore, National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures and IDA's Standard Bidding Documents, adapted to NCB in Arabic, would be
used for all contracts. NCB procurement would be based on simplified procedures and bidding documents
requiring posting of bidding opportunities in public places. These procedures would be specified in the
Operational Manual.
*      rGoods and supplies:This item is expected to be small in size and would be procured through
International or National Shopping. National Shopping would be based on at least three quotations.
International Shopping would be based on three quotations from at least two countries.
*      Procurement of consulting services: would be in accordance with Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (revised January 1999). For consultants contracts
over $100,000, IDA's standard RFP document would be used.
The Welfare Association Consortium (WAC) would be awarded a services contract on a sole-source basis.
The clearance for sole-sourcing was provided by the MNAVP on 2 January, 2002. It took into account
WAC/PMO perfonnance under the first PNGO I project and the capacity it has built to date; the value of
contacts and networks established by the Consortium; and, its unique status as a Palestinian Organization
that enjoys international standing and credibility and does not compete with sister Palestinian organizations.
Furthermore, the Welfare Association would continue to play a major role in supporting the NGO sector
and is likely to support the proposed project beyond the period of direct Bank financing.
*     Project Management: Incremental operating expenses of the Project Management Organization,
including salaries, rent, operation and maintenance of vehicles, would be financed through the project.
8. Prior Review Thresholds
-39 -



*      Compliance with the procurement procedures specified in the Operational Manual.
*      Consultant contracts with estimated value of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals, as well as the first   three consultant contracts of any value.
*      Goods and works contracts over US$50,000 estimated contract value.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB           Other'        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             2.40           0.00          0.00         2.40
(0.00)           (1.10)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (1 .10)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.00           3.84          0.00         3.84
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.90)        (0.00)       (1.90)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           7.01          0.00         7.01
(0.00)           (0.00)         (3.63)        (0.00)       (3.63)
4. Training                           0.00             0.00           0.75          0.00         0.75
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.37)        (0.00)       (0.37)
6. Operating Expenditures             0.00             0.00           2.00          0.00         2.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
Total                              0.00             2.40           13.60          0.00        16.00
(0.00)           (1.10)         (6.90)        (0.00)       (8.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify). All costs include
contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 40 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SF8    LCS       co      Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              3.00    1.00    0.00    0.00      0.31    2.00    0.00      6.31
_(1.60)  (0.50)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.18)   (1.00)  (0.00)   (3.28)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.50    0.20    0.00      0.70
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.25)  (0.10)  (0.00)   (0.35)
Total  3.00    1.00    0.00    0.00      0.81    2.20    0.00      7.01
(1.60)  (0.50)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.43)  (1. 1O)  (0.00)   (3.63)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify).
-41 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prir Review
Expenditure Category       (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                         <150                     NCB              First batch of projects and
NCB (simplified docs)      all contracts > 50
2. Goods                         >100              International shopping    First batch of projects and
<100               National Shopping         all contracts > 50
13. Services            management contract 2000        single source          Cleared by Bank
Management on 2 January,
2001
Firm: >100
QBS, CQ,           All contracts with firms
>100
<100
QBS, CQ, SS         First CQ contract, All SS
contracts.
Individual: >50
CQ                 All contracts with
individuals
First CQ contract
All SS contracts
<50
IC, SS          All TOR and cost estimates
4. Training                       >25                      CQ              Contracts for training >25
Workshops and study                                                          All training programs
visits                                                                      (workshops and study
visits)
All TOR and cost estimates
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
This frequency is based on the demonstrated high competence of existing PMO staff in dealing with
procurement, as well as on the presence of the World Bank Country Office procurement specialist staff.
- 42 -



Table B1- Procurement Plan
Description          Type    # of slices/ Est.   Proc.    Review          Estimated Schedule (month/year)
items/sub- Cost   Method  (Prior/
packages  (US$            Post)
'000)
Prequa.  Invit. to  Bid   Contr.  Contract
_   ______         Bid      Opening Award  Comp.
Management contract   Services     1      2000     SS   Prior                                 8/2001  2/2005
& Incre
Oper
Expenses
Partnership grants    Services,    5-8     760    QBS   Prior       10/2001  10/2001  12/2001 01/2001 01/2004
management                                                                                    I
Partnership grants to    Services  75     30-50   NS,IS  Prior/post          2-3/2001 4-5/2001 5/2001  06/2004
NGOs                  Goods
and                         NCB
works
Development Grants to  Services    10-15    2500    NS,JS  Prior    12/2001  01/2002  02/2002 02/2002 02/2004
NGOs                  Goods
and                         NCB
works
Development of M&E    training     2       20      CQ    Prior      08/2001  09/2001  09/2001 09/2001 10/2001
and training of BGMs
Procurement Training   training    2       20      CQ
for PMO/BGMs and
DGMs
Development of NGO    Services     1       200    QBS   Prior       10/2001  12/2001  2/2001  2/2002  8/2002
Web site                                           CQ
Sector Support Studies - Services  8       40     QBS   Prior       10/2001  10/2001  11/2001  11/2001 06/2002
research workshop, etc                             CQ
Evaluation of         Services     I       10    QCBS  Prior        10/2001  12/2001  5/2002  5/2002  5/2002
performance of                                      IC
Supervisory Board    I_.I_I I                                     _         I        I                I
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-43 -



Disbursement
Allocation of other (specify) proceeds (Table C)
Assessment offinancial management system, accounting and auditing arrangements
Financial Management Assessment: This project is a follow up to the on-going PNGO I and would be
implemented by the same agency, the Welfare Association Consortium/Project Management Organization
(PMO). A comprehensive assessment of the PMO's financial management system conducted by a Bank
FMS concluded that the accounting policies and procedures, internal controls, reporting requirements,
budgeting and payments approval process, treasury functions, auditing arrangements (both external and
internal), and the capacity of the staff to manage the financial management process, followed by the PMO
were adequate. The assessment also reviewed financial audit reports from previous years, and the recent
operational audit report, both issued by Deloitte and Touche with clean audit opinions.
Accounting policies and procedures are enforced and documented in Accounting and Procedural Manual.
This manual, along with the revised Operational Manuals which reflect any changes that may be introduced
in line with any financial reporting requirements. At least two of the three authorized signatories (Chairman
of the Steering Committee, PMO Director, Operations Manager) would continue to sign all payment
checks. The PMO's Finance Department has three qualified accountants supervised by an experienced
Finance Manager. A check of accounting entries revealed that they are up-to-date.
Accounting System: The PMO would, through its accounting department, be responsible for the project
financial management activities, including accounting. The Accounting Department would maintain books
of accounts for the project, and prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial management
reports. The PMO uses computerized accounting system. The Chart of Accounts accommodates all types
of projects financed by the PMO and classifies financial transactions according to donor, category, type,
class, currency, etc. These features enable the PMO to generate a variety of managerial reports in a timely
fashion. Accounting transactions would continue to be posted daily, as they have been during PNGO I, and
a detailed trial balance would continue to be produced and reviewed monthly. In addition, the PMO uses
the project management information system (PMIS). Features of PMIS include general fund management,
and project budgeting and planning facilities. The PMIS also supports dual currency transactions and has
flexible reporting tools.
Financial and Accounting Policies: The PMO carries its accounts on an accrual basis, and follows
international accounting standards to account for all financial transactions, either actual amounts or
estimates e.g. depreciation expense). The reporting currency for the project is the US dollar. Transactions
in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars on the rate of exchange prevailing at the date of each
transaction. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at the
rate of exchange prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Accounting policies and procedures are documented in the Accounting Manual. The manual is strictly
followed by all accounting staff. It covers the following areas: (i) PMO accounting and financial policies.
(ii) the nature of expenditures that should be treated as project expenditures, including their classification.
(iii) expenditures that are eligible for reimbursement from the IDA grant; and (iv) provision for advances to
various recipients, and accounting for funds provided them. These policies and procedures were thoroughly
reviewed by the certified public accounting firm of Deloitte and Touche as part of a full operational and
management audit (see below), and, except for minor notes, a clean opinion was expressed.
Projects Approval Process and Operational Controls. the financial, management and project reviews
-44 -



indicated that the control procedures implemented by the PMO governing the grant approval process are
adequate and provide reasonable assurance on the proper utilization of the PMO funds. The management
audit report, however, noted a need for streamlining to remove some of the duplication and unnecessary
approvals. This would be done as part of the planned revision of the Operational Manual.
Disbursement: To manage the project effectively, a Special Account would be maintained by the PMO in a
commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The initial deposit will be US$ 800,000
and the account will be replenished periodically. Disbursements would commence using traditional
disbursement methods, including direct payments, reimbursements, and replenishments to the Special
Account with supporting documentation and/or statements of expenditures. Project Management Reports
(PMR) would be produced within one year of effectiveness. Conversion to PMR-based disbursement
would be considered after all conversion requirements have been met and the recipient's agreement
obtained.
Financial Management Reports: The external and internal reporting systems are adequate to achieve
project objectives. The PMO issues several financial and non-financial periodic reports to facilitate proper
follow-up on progress of sub-project activities. These reports include: (i) profiles of beneficiaries; (ii) fund
positions by donor; (iii) the detailed status of individual grants and projects; (iv) applications pipeline; and
(v) detailed project information. The existing system also generates full budget and comparison reports, as
well as all financial statements including a balance sheet, statements of receipts, disbursements and fund
balance reports, and a statement of grants committed reports.
Planning and Budgeting: The PMO utilizes efficient planning tools and uses project management software
to specify activities and sub-activities in the business plan, and the resources needed for each one.
However, there is need for more timely updates, which should be done directly on the plan and reflected in
monthly progress reports. The plan is accompanied by a detailed budget along with the donor name and
amounts committed
Staffing: The Finance Department is properly staffed. The Finance Manager has an accounting degree and
long experience in managing sinilar organizations. He is assisted by three qualified accountants. The
volume and distribution of the different tasks among finance staff allows for timely completion of work.
Management Audit: The PMO is subject to annual management audits, which are conducted by a qualified
accounting firm. The management audit seeks to: (i) express a view on whether management is achieving
its objectives and performing its managerial tasks of planning, organizing, directing, and controlling; (ii)
review and appraise the efficiency of operating methods and procedures; and (iii) review and appraise the
PMO in relation to stipulations set out in the Welfare Association Consortium contract with the Bank, and
against the provisions provided for the PMO's Operational Manual and the Mid-Term Review.
Recommendations aim to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of PMO's operations. The auditors
report stated that the financial management system and the internal controls implemented at PMO are
adequate.
Financial Audit Arrangements: Currently, independent auditors acceptable to IDA, Deloitte and Touche
audit the PMO's accounts and financial statements, including accounts for the ongoing PNGO I. To date,
the PMO has received only unqualified audit opinions on its financial statements. The same auditors would
be retained for PNGO II, and audit reports would be due within six months following the end of each fiscal
year. Audited annual financial statements would include: (i) a balance sheet; (ii) statement of sources and
uses of funds; and (iii) a statement of project expenditures by category. Also, the audit would cover the
Special Account transactions and the SOEs for eligibility of all expenditures incurred under the project.
- 45 -



Flow of Funds: A Special Account would be opened at a commercial bank under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, and a comfort letter would be obtained from the commercial bank. Other Special
Accounts would be maintained for donor cofinancing funds. The recipient would bear the risk of exchange
loss, although foreign exchange problems are not anticipated since all disbursements would be made in
local currency and the implementation period is relatively short (three years).
Risks: The main risk relating to the project is the use of the grant proceeds for purposes other than what is
agreed and approved by IDA. This risk is considered manageable, given the strict rules and procedures
enforced by the PMO. IDA would continue to issue a "no objection" for each proposed sub-grant.
Action Plan:
As stated above, the financial management systems at the PMO are adequate and meet IDA's minimurn
requirements. However, the proposed improvements under the project would enhance the overall capacity
at the PMO and enable PMR-based disbursements by September 2002. The project's action plan includes:
- extend the extemal auditors' responsibilities to include PNGO-II. This should be done by August 1,
2001.
- identification of the project in the accounting system (new sub accounts, codes and fields),by July 15,
2001
- obtain a comfort letter from the commercial bank on the special account by July 1, 2001
- assessment of the systems in place by IDA's FMS by July 15, 2001
- issuing first PMR acceptable to IDA, by July 15, 2002, for the quarter ending June 30, 2002. And issue
the first official PMR set by October 15, 2002 for the quarter ending September 30, 2002.
Given the satisfactory financial management system at the PMO, the only required action is to extend the
auditor's responsibility to include PNGO II. This should be done by August 1, 2001. A financial
management specialist would visit the PMO by July 2001 to ensure continued application of the existing
financial systems.
Table C: Allocation of Other (Specify) Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                 2.40
Goods                                       3.84
Project Management, TA,                     9.76
consultancies, training and recurrent
items.
Total Project Costs                        16.00
Total                                      16.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
As stated earlier, disbursement would be initiated on traditional methods including the use of SOEs and
direct payments. Conversion to PMR based disbursement would be institutionalized after all conversion
requirements have been met and the recipient approval obtained. The supporting documents for all
expenditures reimbursed under SOEs would be retained at the PMO for at least one year after the
completion of the project. Also, all supporting documents would be made available for IDA's review.
SOEs and the Special Account would be audited annually as part of the project accounts by independent
- 46 -



auditor acceptable to IDA. SOE threshold is stated in the Procurement section above, which comply with
IDA procurement general guidelines. SOEs would be also used to reimburse training costs.
Special account:
A Special Account would be opened at a commercial bank under terns and conditions acceptable to IDA,
and a comfort letter would be obtained from the commercial bank by July 1, 2001. The recipient would
bear the risk of exchange loss, although, foreign exchange problems are unlikely considering all
disbursements would be made in local currency and the implementation period is relatively short (3 years).
-47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (11)
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8                             10
First Bank mission (identification)              10/05/2001                    10/05/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      04/10/2001                    04/23/2001
Negotiations                                     05/09/2001                    05/25/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/01/2001
Prepared by:
Sima Kanaan (MNSRE)
Preparation assistance:
Mohammed Shadid, PMO
Rafik Husseini, Welfare Association
Mira Rizek, PMO
Nabil Handal, CRS
Khaled Nabris, consultant
Ilona Hazboun
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Abu-Dagga, Hisham                  Operational Analyst
Abu Haija, Ayman                   Financial Management Specialist
Abu-Shakra, Hadi                  Legal Counsel
Aklilu, Petros                     Sector Manager
Al Habsy, Said                     Legal Counsel
Bora, Govind Singh                 Program Assistant
Claudet, Sophie                   Institutional Specialist
Gruss, Hans                       Legal Counsel
Hamed, Khawla                      Team Assistant
Kanaan, Sima                      Task Team Leader
Koenig, Peter                     Project Processing
Labadi, Hisham                    Procurement Specialist
Shankar, Kanthan                  Environment/Project Processing
-48 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
WEST BANK AND GAZA- The Palestinian NGO Project (11)
A. Project Implementation Plan
* A Discussion Paper outlining design features of the project (February, 2001)
*   Supervisory Board Terms of Reference and Working Procedures (May, 2001)
* A Policy on Conflict of Interest (May, 2001)
* Concept Papers on the three components of the project (March, 2001)
* A Bank Position on the major issues raised by the Local Consultative Working Group (April, 2001)
* A Proposal for modifications to the PMO and WAC partner input in Phase HI including a proposed
govemance structure; a modified structure of the PMO, organogramn; TOR for the Consortium Partners
and a Three-Year Budget (May, Welfare Consortium)
*   Mainstreaming Gender in the PNGO Project (1999)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
3   Procurement Audit - Hisham Labadi (April, 2001)
3 Financial Management Systems Audit - Ayman Abu-Haija (1999)
3 Report of the Mid-Term Review (1999)
3 World Bank Aide Memoire (January 2000)
C. Other
3   The Design of a Monitoring and Evaluation System, Nick Chapman (May, 2001)
3   The Development of a Monitorable Project Impact Assessment System, Nick Chapman (2000)
3   A Review of Sub-Grant Proceduers and Administration, Simon White (2000)
3 Feasibility Study for an NGO Resource Centre in the WBG, Tom Lent (2000)
-   The Govemance Committee: Functions, Roles and Composition, Jalal Abdel Latif (2000)
3 An Assessment Study for Identifying Gaps in Capacity Building for the NGO Sector in WBG - Tom
Lent and Khaled Nabris (2000)
* An Assessment Study for Block Grants, Simon White (2000)
* Beneficiary Assessment Report (1999)
*Including electronic files
- 49 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (II)
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA        SF                 Cancel.   Undisb.        Org   Frm Rev'd
P054051        2001 GZ-SOLID WASTE & ENVIRONMENTAL MNGMNT.               0.00       0.00       9.50                  0.00       8.40        1.17      0.00
P053892        2000 GZ-HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT I                       0.00       0.00       7.90                  0.00       7.18       2.80       0.00
P058683        2000 GZ-MIDPII                                            0.00       0.00       7.50                  0.00       6.85        1.23      0.00
P040506        2000 GZ-ELEC.SEC.INV.& MGMT                               0.00       0.00      15.00                  0.00      11.53       6.63       0.00
P058684        1999 GZ-COMMUNITY DEV. II                                 0.00       0.00       8.00                  0.00       2.07        1.37      0.00
P051564        1999 GZ-SOUTHERN AREA WATER                               0.00       0.00      21.00                  0.00       14.68       8.00      0.00
P053985        1999 GZ-BETHLEHEM 2000                                    0.00       0.00      25.00                  0.00       4.07       24.64      0.00
P040503        1998 GAZA INDUSTRIAL EST.                                 0.00       0.00       0.00                  1.00       6.70        7.20      0.00
P047067        1998 GZ: PALESTINIAN NGO PROJ                             0.00       0.00      10.00                  0.00       0.33        7.30     10.97
P040505        1997 GZ-WATER & SAN. SERVICES/GAZA                        0.00       0.00      25.00                  0.00       0.26       25.00      0.00
P043338        1997 GZ-HOUSING                                           0.00       0.00      25.00                  0.00      24.01       23.34      0.00
P047111        1997 LEGAL DEVELOPMENT                                    0.00       0.00       5.50                  0.00       3.23       5.46       0.00
P049708        1997 PAL.EXPAT.PROF.PROGRAM                               0.00       0.00       3.00                  0.00       1.69       3.00       1.34
P047065        1997 GZ-MICROENTERPRISES-IFC                              0.00       0.00       5.00                  0.00       2.65       5.00       5.00
P043339        1996 GZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT                             0.00       0.00      40.00                  0.00       4.95      40.00       0.00
P035996        1995 EDUC. & HEALTH REHAB                                 0.00       0.00      20.00                  0.00       0.00      20.00      20.00
Total:        0.00        0.00     227.40                  1.00       99.03     182.15      37.31
- 50 -



WEST BANK AND GAZA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               APIB                           0.00    3.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.73    0.00    0.00
1997               Arab Bank                      0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.90    0.00
1997               ComBank Palestin               0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.58    0.00
1997               Jordan National                0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00
1997               PIEDCO                         8.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1999               PMHC                           0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.23    0.00    0.00
1998               PTF                            0.00   12.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55    0.00    0.00
1998               PTF-Mgt Co.                    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00
1999               PTIC                           8.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    8.00    1.35    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Al-Ayyam                   1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Arab Concret               0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Cold Storage               0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF JerichoMotel               1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        19.90   22.88    7.50     0.00    12.90   12.90    3.48    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              PMHC                             15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 51 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
WEST BANK AND GAZA: The Palestinian NGO Project (II)
West   M. East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Bank   & North   middle-
& Gaza     Africa   income       Development diamond'
1 999
PoPulation. mid-year fmillions( la                       2.8       291      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, JSS/la                   1,800      2,060     1,200
GNP (Atlas method. USS biilions) In                     S1        599      2.513
Average annual qrowth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           3.9        2.1       1.1
Labor force (%l                                          5.0        3.0       1.2      GNP           7       K           Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year availablo. 1993-99)                                  capita                        enrolimeni
Povertv (Id of population below national poverty line)    23
Urban pooulation (I9 of totat populalion)                 70        58         43
Lde expectancy at birth (vears)                           71        68         69
Infant mortatity (per 1,000 live bifths)                 25         45         33
Child malnutrition (N of(chiidren under 51                ..        15         15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (I% ot Dopulebton)        90        71         86
Illiteracy (% of Population ago 15)                      16        36         16
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of schooi-ao population)      91        gS        114               West Bank and Gaza
Male                                                    91       102        114         --------- Lower-middie-income group
Female                                                 92         88        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP `US$ billions)                               .                  41        4.2
Gross domestic invostmentlGDP                                      39.2      39.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                  17.8      17.6                      Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GOP                                 ,.     -21,2     -18.5
Gross national savingsJGDP                                          5.7      11.6
Current account balance/GDP                                .      -33.5     -27.6      Doesi
Interest pavments/GDP                                               0.6       0.6                 Domes Investment
Total debttGDP                                                      4,8       7.3      Savigs
Total debt service/exports
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
faverars annuel growth)
GDP                                             3,6      8.1       S59                     --West Bank and Gaza
GNP per capita                                 0A4       8.5        2.6                   ---- - Lower-middle-income group
Exports of ooods and services                   1.4      6.6        4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (I%)
(I% of GDP)                                                                           10
Aqriculture                                                         8.7       8.6
Industrv                                                           29.6      29.8      s
Manufacturinn                                                    17.7       17.55J
Services                                                           61.7      61.6      o
Private consumption                                                97.3      92.2
General qovernment consumption                                     23.9      26.3 3                           -OGP
Imnorts of qoods and services                                      78.3      75.4
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (I%)
(averaqe annual growth)
Aqriculture                                             -4.4        6 B                10
Industry                                                 1.5       10.8       5.2
Manufacturing                                          4.8       10.2        3.7      0
Services                                                 3.6        8.7       4.5             94          96   97   9u   us
Private consumption                                      2.6        8.5       5.0     if'
General aovernment consumption                          13.1        7.0      11.2
Gross domestic investment                                4.9        7.1       6.2    20
Imports of qoods and services                            4.7        7.4       6.0             -Exports           :  Imperts
Gross national Droduct                                   5.0       12.7       6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-groug average. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 52 -



West Bank and Gaza
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices|
(% chan,qe)                                                                          s.
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       5.6       5.5 
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       .        7.9       4.9
Govsernment Ofnance
(9 of GOP, includes current grants)                                                  o -
Current revenue                                 ..       .       24.7      28.9             94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       1.0       1.1            -GDP deflator    QCP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..      -0.4      -1.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998     1999       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..       714       720     3.000
n.a.
n.a.                                          .2000
Manufactures                                  ..
Total imports (cif)                                             2,839    2,791
Food                                                                              1.000
Fuel and energy                               ..
Capital goods                                  .                   .        .        0
93  94  95  96  97   w    99
Export prnce index (1995=100)                   ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   .                                                  Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mti/ions7)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ..        727       733
Imports of goods and services                  ..        ..    3,192      3,138          93
Resource balance                                ..       ..   -2,465    -2,405    -10
Net income                                      ..       ..       828      875
Net current transfers                           0        0        272      379    -20
Currentaccount balance                          ..       ..   -1,365    -1,152    -30
Financnq items (net)                            ..       ..    1.365
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..         0         ..     0
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locaf1US$)                ..       ..       3.8       4.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..       ..       197       305
IBRD                                          ..       ..         0        0
IDA                                           ..       ..       146      239
Total debt service                              ..
IBRD                                          ..
IDA                                           ..
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..
Official creditorsr.
Private creditors                            ..3146
Foreign direct investment                    ..
Portfolio equity                             ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                                      35       44      A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..        ..        39        93     8 - IDA    D - Other mLltilateral  F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                          ..        ..         0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..       ..        39       93
Interest payments                            ..        ..         0         0
Net transfers                                ..       ..         39       93
Development Economics
- 53 -






WEST BANK
and
i  10 t2a-~~~~~ /T-  >   :-           *@J~~~enin                 X    
Ya'bad  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORTS /AIRFIELDS
-=   MAJOR HIGHWiiAYS
TWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
A '- 3  n~ gRorn "=P -  <RAILROADS
"'T         Tukrm             'BUILT-UP AREAS
Tammun                           o  a  UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
/*V >0  X  v  _    ;__    Nablus i  C       >      ^   -        SI t    e      o   ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
-ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
* /^h=- -\'S  ';' 5 Z%    @   ^   /   !   jr'    >    twz  t   37511'  m   NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
LiAPMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
-EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
i i %    lrod &  0  i   S.hed    r   '                      -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2 ttPf eh-   t                    ~~~~~~~~~~w E T;' >'  
?2<lSRAEL     .t   +>   BfA. N  K                                                                                       4' tx i,, w4t0   ,CC
t !   (;    <\  t   fi >?  ,<AI Birahz--'1      '         t      -- -            mamr; ?   i    Nublus   o;~~~CCC  JORDAN
/~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;AN    3CC/60
7-~~~~~~~~-
t   (   ' \ *$  #  nrmea  S     10    rs               t        t        VE.I f                  /         <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  C~C 
Ra-31e3E  /  ';  * jX '; T 31 rn    h s e e rkiC                           S/                            1
C  MEDITERRANEAN          '-   ~~~JORDA
Al Bh,-- S)                                                         C                      C
TI.C,CCA CX5O.'rirti1vbV/es                                    3>3 35'DO  oS'If /    1  Jericl.o BANK
JERU    3Ch3CkC3                   ILC   
CCCI   13CC  3CC3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               I         C~SR E
MEDITERRANEAN~~~C 



