Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF029798
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Second Palestinian NGO Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
and
WELFARE ASSOCIATION
Dated July 12, 2001
TF029798
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, 
established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by 
Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3, and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7, and as 
further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2, of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International 
Development Association (the Trust Fund), and the WELFARE ASSOCIATION (the Recipient), 
a non-governmental organization with offices in the West Bank and Gaza.
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on July 
29, 1999, to inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of sixty million 
dollars ($60,000,000) such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in those areas of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the 
West Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(B)
the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority, having satisfied themselves 
as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), have requested the Administrator to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(C)
the Welfare Association has formed a consortium with the British Council 
and the Charities Aid Foundation for the purpose of carrying out this Project pursuant 
to the Memorandum of Understanding, dated July 2, 1997;
Page  2
(D)
the Palestinian Authority, through its letter to the Administrator, dated 
September 27, 2000 has agreed that the Grant amount set forth in Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement be provided directly to the Recipient under the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a non-governmental organization (NGO) to which the 
Recipient proposes to make, or has made, a Sub-project Grant (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Operational Manual" means the Recipient's manual, referred to in Section 
7.01 (b) of this Agreement, which sets out the terms, conditions, procedures and 
eligibility criteria pursuant to which the Recipient will award Sub-project Grants, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Administrator;
(c)
"Memorandum of Understanding" means the contractual arrangements among 
the Welfare Association, British Council and Charities Aid Foundation forming a 
consortium for the purpose of this Project, dated July 2, 1997 and acceptable to the 
Administrator, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Administrator;
(d)
"Business Plan" means the annual plan of the Recipient, covering the 
managerial structure and associated arrangements for the implementation of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Administrator;
(e)
"Sub-project" means an activity or set of activities in the West Bank and 
Gaza to be carried out by a Beneficiary in accordance with the procedures of the 
Operational Manual and the contractual arrangements between the Beneficiary and the 
Recipient;
(f)
"Sub-project Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Recipient out of the proceeds of the Grant to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(h)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(j)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for Sub-project Grants, 
goods, works and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(k)
"Supervisory Board" means the board referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of 
this Agreement and consisting of representatives of civil society, including the NGO 
networks, the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority; and
(l)
"PMO" means the project management organization established by the 
Recipient  for the purpose of Project implementation.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) amounts paid (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient 
on account of expenditures under a Sub-project Grant to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for a Sub-project; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of Project 
management and consultants' services and training required for Parts B and C of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 15, 2005, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with  the Operational 
Manual and its Business Plan and appropriate administrative, environmental, technical 
and financial practices and in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by mutual 
agreement of the Recipient and the Administrator, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of: 
(a) the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be carried out in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph 8 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the consultants' services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall  maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to 
the Administrator such other information concerning said records and accounts, and the 
audit thereof, as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the 
Administrator has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Administrator’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
Page  4
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than 
September 1, 2002  or such later date as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Recipient shall carry on its business and operations, and 
otherwise conduct all its affairs, in accordance with sound professional, 
administrative, cultural, economic, financial and social service practices, and in 
accordance with appropriate safety, health and environmental standards acceptable to 
the Administrator, and at all times under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 5.02. The Recipient shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision acceptable to the Administrator, for insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with reasonable practice 
to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Recipient shall promptly take all measures necessary to 
acquire, maintain, renew and otherwise exercise all rights, powers, privileges, 
registrations and franchises required for the proper conduct of its business and 
operations, and otherwise for its proper carrying out of all its obligations under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 1.14 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Palestinian Authority or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or the disestablishment of the 
Recipient, or for the suspension of any of its operations so as to affect materially 
and adversely its ability to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or 
otherwise carry out the Project, or any part thereof; and
Page  5
(b)
the Palestinian Authority or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action, including the enactment or issuance of legislation or 
regulations, which, in the opinion of the Administrator, may adversely affect, 
prevent, or interfere with, the carrying out of the Project or the performance by the 
Recipient of any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto and receipt by the Administrator of evidence satisfactory to the 
Administrator that:
(a)
the Supervisory Board has been established with membership and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Administrator; and
(b)
the PMO has submitted a draft Operational Manual satisfactory to the 
Administrator and to the Supervisory Board.
Section 7.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
Section 7.03. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement 
and Section 1.17 of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Administrator may terminate this Agreement at any time upon not less 
than sixty (60) days' written notice to the Recipient or, without limitation to the 
foregoing, upon not less than thirty (30) days' written notice to the Recipient on or 
at any time after any condition referred to in Section 7.01 of this Agreement and 
Section 1.14 of the General Conditions has continued for a period of thirty (30) days 
following such notice of suspension;
(b)
the Recipient may terminate this Agreement at any time upon not less than 
sixty (60) days written notice to the Administrator;
(c)
in the event this Agreement is terminated by either the Administrator or 
the Recipient: (i) the Recipient shall promptly thereafter take all reasonable steps 
to minimize its Wind-Down Costs; (ii) the Administrator and the Recipient shall 
cooperate thereafter to complete any accounting required in connection with their 
respective obligations hereunder; and (iii) the Administrator shall make available, 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, funds to the Recipient as may be necessary to 
compensate the Recipient for any Wind-Down Costs. The obligations of the Administrator 
and the Recipient under this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement; 
and
(d)
for the purpose of this Section, the term "Wind-Down Costs" means all 
costs or expenses incurred by the Recipient following the termination of this 
Agreement in connection with the prompt and orderly wind-down of the operations and 
services contemplated hereunder, including, without limitation, any payment due to a 
Beneficiary in connection with the winding-down of any Sub-project.
Section 7.04. Upon any termination of this Agreement, the Recipient agrees that 
no payment shall be due to the Recipient in respect of any Project management costs 
except for the portion of such costs accrued prior to the date of such termination, 
provided, that the Recipient has performed its services hereunder to the satisfaction 
of the Administrator. Any portion of the installments of the Project management costs 
shall be returned to the Administrator to the extent it has not been utilized by the 
Recipient for expenditures incurred in accordance with PMO’s Business Plan.
ARTICLE VIII
Settlement of Disputes; Arbitration
Section 8.01 Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force. The arbitral 
tribunal shall consist of three (3) arbitrators. One arbitrator shall be appointed by 
the Administrator. The second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient. The two 
arbitrators thus appointed shall choose the third arbitrator who will act as a 
Page  6
presiding arbitrator of the arbitrator tribunal. The place of arbitration shall be 
Washington, D.C., USA. In the event of a conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration 
Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Director General of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 1.27 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
1.25 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Welfare Association
P.O. Box 2173
Ramallah, West Bank
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the 
    Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
WELFARE ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Abdel Majid Shoman
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  7
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-project Grants
    5,250,000
100%
(2)
Consultants' services and
750,000
100%
training under Parts B 
and C of the Project
(3)
Project management costs    2,000,000
100%
TOTAL
8,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Project management costs" means the 
costs to the Recipient incurred in the management of the Project, to be paid in 
several installments, due in amounts of: (i) $750,000 following the signature of this 
Agreement; (ii) $600,000 on July 1, 2002 and $550,000 on July 1, 2003, in each case 
against receipt by the Administrator of: (A) a progress report on the implementation 
of the Project acceptable to the Administrator, and (B) independent financial and 
management audits acceptable to the Administrator (including a statement on the 
implementation of the corrective measures identified by such audits, if any); and 
(iii) $100,000 against delivery of a Project completion report satisfactory to the 
Administrator.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions, of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made: (a) for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement; and (b) in respect of expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) unless 
the final Operational Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, 
has been submitted to the Administrator, such Operational Manual to be submitted not 
later than October 1, 2001.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) payments made under Sub-project 
Grants; and (b) expenditures for contracts costing less than the equivalent of 
$100,000 for services of consulting firms and $50,000 for services of individual 
consultants.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Administrator shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Administrator of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Administrator 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Administrator determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Administrator determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
Page  8
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or 
(B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether 
further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, provide such additional evidence as the 
Administrator may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement.
Annex A To SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and 
Page  9
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to said 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B To SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, 
all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Grant Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Administrator has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the capacity of Palestinian NGOs 
to deliver sustainable services to the poor and marginalized thereby supporting the 
development of the NGO sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Service Delivery and Institutional Strengthening
Provision by the Recipient of Sub-project Grants to Beneficiaries to carry out 
Subprojects.
Part B:
Project Management
Carrying out of:
1. 
a management support program consisting of the provision to Beneficiaries of 
staff training, supervision and expert services for purposes of, inter alia, 
increasing the capabilities of Beneficiaries to prepare, manage, implement, audit and 
evaluate Sub-projects; and
2. 
a monitoring and evaluation program for the Project.
Part C: 
Sector Support
Page  10
Carrying out a program to strengthen the capabilities of the NGO sector through: 
(a) putting in place mechanisms to enhance the exchange of information within the 
sector; (b) improving levels of coordination, cooperation and joint programming 
between NGOs and among the NGO sector, the private sector and the Palestinian 
Authority; (c) supporting the long-term financial sustainability of the NGO sector 
through improved mechanisms for resource mobilization; and (d) strengthening the 
technical and managerial capabilities of the NGO networks.
****
The Project is expected to be completed by August 15, 2004.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services under Parts B and C of the Project
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plans for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plans as shall have 
been approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Recipient shall entrust responsibility for the day-to-day management of the 
Project to the PMO. The PMO shall also act as secretariat to the Supervisory Board.
Page  12
2.
The Supervisory Board shall provide policy guidance to the PMO and shall carry 
out its functions in accordance with its terms of reference and the Operational 
Manual, including the approval of annual action plans and review of progress reports.
3. 
In carrying out its responsibilities, the PMO shall follow the procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual. The Recipient shall not amend the Operational Manual 
if, in the opinion of the Administrator, such amendment would materially affect the 
implementation of the Project.
4.
The Recipient shall: (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator: (i) semi-annual reports in each year until completion of 
the Project, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant of subparagraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period of six (6) months preceding the date of such 
report, and (ii) on or about March 31, 2003, a mid-term report, integrating the data 
and other information contained in the reports prepared pursuant to subparagraph 
(b)(i) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period 
preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project during the period following such date; and (c) 
review with the Administrator each such report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such report 
and the Administrator's views on the matter.
5.
The Recipient shall carry out with the Administrator a mid-term review on or 
about June 30, 2003 on the basis of the mid-term report referred to above. The 
mid-term review shall focus, inter alia, on the future operation of the Project and 
the implementation and management arrangements therefor. If, due to changing 
circumstances, modifications to the implementation arrangements are required, the 
Recipient and the Administrator may agree on the appropriate changes to this 
Agreement.
6.
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator not later than September 1 of 
each year: (a) annual management audits for the preceding year to be carried out by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator and according to terms of 
reference acceptable to the Administrator; (b) its Business Plan for the following 
twelve month period; and (c) its annual action plan acceptable to the Administrator 
for the carrying out of the Project during the following twelve month period.
7.
The Recipient shall submit to the Palestinian Authority quarterly cash flow 
statements regarding all Project transactions.
8.
The Recipient shall maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Administrator, 
pursuant to which the Recipient shall: (a) select Beneficiaries, approve Sub-projects, 
make Sub-project Grants and otherwise carry out its activities under Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the terms, conditions, procedures, criteria and other 
details set forth in the Operational Manual; (b) ensure that the procurement of all 
goods, works, and consultants' services under Part A of the Project shall be made in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; and (c) adopt 
procedures, satisfactory to the Administrator, to: (i) monitor against specific output 
indicators agreed with the Administrator, the carrying out by Beneficiaries of 
Sub-projects and the achievement of the objectives of Part A of the Project; (ii) 
prepare for inclusion in the reports referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule, 
all information required to assess the progress of Part A of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; and (iii) not later than March 31, 2003, furnish to the 
Administrator a beneficiary impact assessment according to terms of reference 
acceptable to the Administrator.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 5
General Conditions
SECTION 1.01. Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
1.
"Administrator" means the International Development Association, acting as 
administrator of the Trust Fund.
2.
"Grant" means the grant provided for in this Agreement.
3.
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United States of 
America.
4.
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Administrator on its books in 
the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited.
5.
"Project" means the project for which the Grant is made, as described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
6.
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether in 
effect at the date of this Agreement or thereafter imposed.
7.
"Closing Date" means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement after 
which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
SECTION 1.02. Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
SECTION 1.03. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are 
payable.
SECTION 1.04. Valuation of Currencies
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine 
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator.
SECTION 1.05. Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General 
Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
SECTION 1.06. Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient's request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter 
into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or the 
Recipient.
Page  14
SECTION 1.07. Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or 
to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 
1.06 of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall deliver to the Administrator a 
written application in such form, and containing such statements and agreements, as 
the Administrator shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, including the 
documentation required therefor, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures 
for the Project.
SECTION 1.08. Reallocation
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in this Agreement, if the Administrator has 
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal 
category set forth in this Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be 
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that category, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; 
and
(b)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
SECTION 1.09. Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person.
SECTION 1.10. Supporting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
SECTION 1.11. Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified 
in this Agreement.
SECTION 1.12. Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied in the territory in which the 
Recipient is located on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in this 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Administrator.
Page  15
SECTION 1.13. Payment by the Administrator
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
SECTION 1.14. Suspension by the Administrator
If any of the following events of suspension shall have occurred and be 
continuing, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under 
this Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
Any other event specified in this Agreement for the purposes of this 
Section shall have occurred. The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, 
until the event or events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, 
unless the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make 
withdrawals has been restored in whole or in part, as the case may be.
SECTION 1.15. Cancellation by the Administrator
If: (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days; or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (c) at 
any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement 
and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant or; (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Grant shall be cancelled.
SECTION 1.16. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or 
Suspension by the Administrator
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts 
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 1.06 of the General Conditions except as expressly provided in such 
commitment.
SECTION 1.17. Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in 
this Agreement.
SECTION 1.18. Cooperation and Information
The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that the 
purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the 
Administrator shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of 
Page  16
the Grant, and the performance of their respective obligations 
under this Agreement; and furnish to the other party all such 
information related thereto as it shall reasonably request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in 
paragraph (i) above.
SECTION 1.19. Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable 
in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 1.20. Use of Goods and Services
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all 
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively 
for the purposes of the Project.
SECTION 1.21. Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract 
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
SECTION 1.22. Records and Reports
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the 
Administrator's representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites 
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all 
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description thereof, the 
name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract 
price.
(c)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish 
to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Administrator of their respective obligations under this Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
SECTION 1.23. Maintenance
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Page  17
SECTION 1.24. Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to 
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be 
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly 
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights 
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
SECTION 1.25. Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or telefax 
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's 
address specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
SECTION 1.26. Evidence of Authority
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Recipient under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
SECTION 1.27. Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken 
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such 
representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances 
and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement. The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Page  18
SECTION 1.28. Execution in Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be 
an original.
