                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 31785




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (SCL-44750 TF-25327)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                            FOR THE

                               EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                           March 23, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 16, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                          Tunisian Dinar 1 = US$ 0.82
                                     US$ 1 = TD 1.21

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1-     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAR           Comite d'agrement des risques
CEPEX         Centre de promotion des exportations
COTUNACE      Compagnie tunisienne pour l'assurance du commerce exterieure
EMAF          Export Market Access Fund
FEDEX         Federation des exportateurs prives
GoT           Government of Tunisia
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MSME          Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
NPV           Net Present Value
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCMU          Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PEFG          Preshipment Export Finance Guarantee
PFIs          Participating Financial Institutes
SME           Small and Medium Enterprises




                            Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
                         Country Director       Theodore O. Ahlers
                          Sector Manager        Zoubida Allaoua
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Hamid Alavi

                                           TUNISIA
                               TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              33
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            34
Annex 10. Counterpart Evaluation Report                                          37

Project ID: P055814                                                  Project Name: TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Hamid R. Alavi                                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: March 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-44750; TF-25327
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (40%); Central government administration
                            (38%); General industry and trade sector (21%); Other domestic and
                            international trade (1%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Trade facilitation and
                            market access (P); Small and medium enterprise support (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/28/1998                                     Effective: 02/18/2000                02/18/2000
     Appraisal: 10/27/1998                                         MTR:                             03/14/2002
      Approval: 05/20/1999                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF TUNISIA/M/COMMERCE; COTUNACE; CEPEX; TUNISIAN
                                           CUSTOMS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Zoubida Allaoua                                Deane Jordan (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:             Hamid Alavi                                    Hamid Alavi
ICR Primary Author:             Hamid Alavi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project was substantially relevant to the country's development needs, as exports continue to be
critical for Tunisia's growth and job creation. The establishment of the Superior Export and Investment
Council in July 1997, presided over by President Ben Ali, attests to the increased attention by Tunisian
authorities to the critical role of exports in the country's economic development. The government was
aware that trade liberalization ­ in the form of the phase-out of the Multi-fiber Agreement that would
become due in 2005, the Association Agreement with the EU, and the adhesion to the WTO ­ presented
major challenges for Tunisian economy and producers. The impact would be a combination of losses and
new market opportunities, and the Tunisian economy was likely to experience considerable churning in
terms of firm exit and start-ups, job destruction and creation, and declining tariff revenue. Tunisia's export
performance (by the offshore sector ­ firms exporting 80 percent or more of their output), was already
under pressure from other countries in Tunisia's main markets and the share of Tunisia's exports of key
garment products to the EU was falling in favor of other competitors such as China and Turkey. In
addition, the non-exporting firms (the onshore sector) that were protected for years from competition, had
not developed export production and marketing capabilities.

As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), "the major development objective was to enhance the
ability of Tunisian private exporters to integrate into the global economy." This seems to be an ambitious
target for the project, but the PAD qualifies this objective by stating that : "The proposed project would
foster export competitiveness of Tunisian firms by mitigating some of the disadvantages they encounter
relative to their foreign competitors (for example, export-related transactions costs and export financing
problems for small and medium exporters)." The project therefore focused on three key disadvantages for
Tunisian exporters, namely insufficient knowledge of export markets and buyer requirements, inadequate
export financing, and export-related transaction costs.

Given that Tunisia had made substantial progress in addressing trade policy issues (as manifested through
the adhesion to WTO and the Association Agreement with the EU), the project objectives to tackle market
failures and information asymmetries and building market institutions to diversify exporters' base
and markets were particularly important in Tunisia:

     · After long periods of protection, it was difficult for previously protected onshore firms to
         successfully adapt to the needs of the international market. In such an environment, many small
         and medium-sized firms were reluctant to take the first decisions to enter new export markets.
         International experience showed that relevant export services were critical in inducing these firms
         to enter export markets, but most enterprises perceived these services as expensive and of little
         impact in terms of generating exports. The use of marketing and support services was therefore
         seriously undervalued.

     · Another market failure was concerned with informational asymmetries on the part of Tunisian
         banks about SMEs' ability to execute export orders to buyers' standards of quality, cost, and
         delivery.

     · The project also addressed inefficiencies in trade-related procedures and logistics that increased
         transaction costs for exporters and put them at a disadvantage vis-à-vis competitors.




                                                     - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The DOs were not revised during project implementation. Regarding performance indicators, target dates
for all indicators have been revised in view of 3 month delay in project effectiveness . Values for the export
                                                                                     1


finance indicators have also been revised after the mid-term review to reflect weak performance for a period
of one year following the change in the management of the executing agency for the component in 2002.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had three components as follows:

Component 1: Export Market Access (Total cost US$25 million, of which IBRD share was US$14.0
million). This component included a matching grant fund (Export Market Access Fund ­ EMAF) to cover
on a temporary basis up to 50 percent of the cost of consultant services and technical assistance required to
enable enterprises, especially SMEs, to enter export markets. In doing so, it was also to encourage the use
of local and foreign business and export development service providers. The EMAF offered its services
solely in response to private sector demand on a nondiscriminatory and a first-come-first-served basis. The
main instruments under this scheme consisted of: (a) non-reimbursable matching grants payable to
beneficiaries of the EMAF for eligible activities undertaken within the framework of an export plan; (b)
technical assistance to eligible enterprises in the preparation of their export plan; and (c) technical
assistance during implementation of export plans. The scheme was administered by CEPEX but executed
by an internationally experienced management team, selected through international competitive bidding.

The component also included technical assistance to: (a) define a two-year international trading company
development program; (b) support for a vendor development program to actively court vendor development
managers, professional buyers and buying chains; and (c) a study to identify operational and organizational
options and management systems for a trade service center (Maison de l'exportateur).              A total of
US$500,000 was allocated to these tasks.

Component 2: Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantees (PEFG) (Project cost US$6 million, of which
IBRD would finance US$5.4 million). Bank resources under this component financed a PEFG facility,
established by GoT, to guarantee preshipment export loans by participating financial institutions (PFIs) to
SME and emerging exporters. These loans would cover the input and working capital costs of producers
exporting their final products, either directly or through international trading companies, or indirect
exporters supplying to offshore companies. This facility was administered by the Export Insurance Agency
(COTUNACE), and monitored by a Risk Agreement Committee (Comité d'agrément des risques -- CAR).
It guaranteed up to 90 percent of the nonperformance risks of SME and emerging exporters, for up to 180
days (revised to 300 days at mid-term review) which the PFIs had to bear. A premium of 0.15 percent per
month was paid by the borrowers (exporters).


Component 3: Trade Facilitation (Project cost US$19 million, of which IBRD would finance US$15.3
million). The component involved two main sub-components:

1.       Customs modernization. This involved the modernization of the customs information system
(SINDA) to handle the year 2000, automated processing of customs declarations, including risk
management, and database management systems. It also involved the construction of the training center to
address the continuing education needs of customs officers in modern customs clearance techniques, the
modernization of customs laboratory, and development of the customs research and documentation center



                                                    - 3 -

to facilitate information exchange on customs regulations and procedures. Finally, it financed scanners at
key points of entry to facilitate the flow of merchandise.

2.       Simplification of trade documents and clearance processes.           This sub-component initiated
measures to streamline trade clearance processes, starting with the simplification of trade documents (single
administrative document) and automated processing (single window) to improve the efficiency of
information exchange associated with cargo handling and clearance activities through the use of
information and communications technologies. Tunisie Tradenet (TTN), a public-private company, was
created to operate an automated network, and develop end-user interfaces among key agencies involved in
trade transaction clearance.

The design of the components was simple and practical, and the components were chosen on the basis of
potential synergies among them. Their implementation was nevertheless challenging as they aimed to
initiate transformation of the export service provision in Tunisia (through a public-private mechanism ­
EMAF), change the conservative bank lending behavior to address the export finance constraints of
emerging exporters, and reduce transactions costs through improving efficiency of the agencies that
controlled trade transactions. The achievements of the project, as noted below, are even more impressive,
considering these challenges.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry of the project is considered satisfactory.

CAS consistency and strategic underpinning.          The Project was consistent with the CAS and was
substantially relevant to the country's development needs, as noted in Section 3.1. The project was also
designed based on an export development strategy that was prepared with Bank assistance, and helped
implement the first phase of that strategy. The project was also consistent with the Bank's safeguard
policies.

Ownership.       Government ownership and commitment was strong through close involvement and
supervision by the Superior Export and Investment Council, especially the Minister of Commerce. After
considerable project preparation work, the EMAF management team was selected and the PEFG team was
assembled, an implementation plan and operational manuals completed, and the CEPEX and COTUNACE
Grant Agreement concluded during 1999. The EMAF management team also successfully staged major
launch activities, involving the Prime Minister, his economic team and 1,400 entrepreneurs, plus regional
and sectoral promotions, leading to EMAF's start-up in April 2000. In response, 350 firms requested
participation in the program in the course of that first year, of which 170 passed screening tests and 33
firms completed their marketing plans and began implementation. However, the adoption of the PEFG
regulatory framework took more time than expected and delayed project effectiveness by three months.

International best practice. The components were designed based on best practice models adapted to the
case of Tunisia, and prepared in close collaboration with teams of stakeholders.

Risks. Most risks were assessed appropriately at entry. One risk that was overlooked, however, was the
management weaknesses for the PEFG component. This is an important lesson for follow-up support



                                                      - 4 -

under the EDP II.

Readiness for implementation. The implementation plans were agreed with the Borrower before the
negotiations and the Borrower had established, before negotiations, a project coordination and monitoring
unit (PCMU) in the Ministry of Commerce to supervise the activities of three implementing agencies in
charge of each component. However, the procurement and financial management capabilities of the PCMU
were weak and increased the workload for the executing agencies and the Bank team in these areas during
project implementation. In addition, delays in the fulfillment of one of the effectiveness conditions (the
adoption of the PEFG law and decree which was beyond the control of the project team) indicates the need
to avoid, to the extent possible, effectiveness conditions in similar projects.

1
 The effectiveness delay was due to the time needed to pass the pre-shipment export finance guarantee legal framework (law
and decree) which was an effectiveness condition.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory.                  The achievements of the project have been
remarkable, considering the challenges of post- September 11th slowdown, the natural tendency to resist
change on the part of trade-related government agencies, and on the part of the banks to change their
lending behavior vis-à-vis emerging exporters. Overall, Tunisian private exporters are now better able to
integrate into global markets, thanks to institutional processes that have been set in motion to address the
three disadvantages that the project had set to tackle . Thanks to the public-private partnership approach
                                                             2


adopted by the project and the creation of an export consulting industry, Tunisian enterprises are now able
to obtain relevant information and know-how that help them enter export markets. This has allowed 595
Tunisian enterprises to become new exporters or enter new markets through the project, compared to the
appraisal estimate of 350. Moreover, imported goods can now be cleared in an average of 3 days,
compared with an average of 8 days at the time of project appraisal, making Tunisian enterprises more
competitive and market responsive.

The stakeholder survey confirmed this assessment. The participants pointed out that the EMAF program
has transformed the private sector views about export services and is drastically shifting the traditional
public-sector led export promotion in Tunisia (e.g., FOPRODEX) to market provisions through export
consultants. For the first time in Tunisia, the private sector is paying for export services and a core of local
consultants has been developed around the EMAF program, which can make these market initiatives
sustainable.

Banks are now more aware that they can profitably lend to emerging exporters with viable export contracts
but little collateral. About US$34.5 million of additional exports is generated through a US$5 million
PEFG scheme, although this has fallen far short of appraisal estimates of US$463 million and the revised
mid-term estimates of US$223, for reasons explained below. As such, the banks are starting to cultivate
the emerging exporter market but they have not yet adopted their lending practices to benefit from this
business. In this sense, the project has not fully achieved its outcome of acting as catalyst to encourage, in
a significant way, financial institutions to provide preshipment working capital financing to SME and
emerging exporters Nevertheless, as a pilot scheme, important lessons have been learned from the PEFG
experience and incorporated in the design of a similar component under the Second Export Development
Project which has become effective in January 2005.




                                                           - 5 -

The poor performance of PEFG was a key point of discussion during the stakeholder workshop. The
participants highlighted the problems with the management of the scheme and the treatment of default cases
due to "bad-faith" of the borrower (which according to the participants should have been considered as
non-performance risk). They stressed that if the management was more proactive and responsive to the
banks' concerns and if the CAR had treated the bad-faith risk as non-performance (and therefore reimburse
the banks for bad-faith default) then banks would have used the facility much more extensively than they
did.

Trade transactions are also more efficient today than five years ago. Customs clearance time, for example,
is 10 minutes for a declaration not requiring technical control, as opposed to 3 days in 2000. The manifest
processing time (through TTN) is also reduced form 2 days in 2000 to a day now. The stakeholder
workshop participant (especially logistics providers) and the TTN user survey indicated strong satisfaction
with the achievements of the project's trade facilitation support, but also offered suggestions to consolidate
the achievements of the project in this respect (Annex 9).

In a longer-term perspective, the project has had significant institutional development impact. It has
encouraged firms to utilize export development services at full market prices, demonstrated the
effectiveness of public-private partnership for export development and the use of a demand-based approach
to allocate public support, and developed a new local market of export development service. The
development of public-private partnership in export development has transformed the traditional,
ineffective, public sector led export promotion.       Throughout project implementation, various impact
assessments were conducted over 2002-04 to capture near-term effects on export-related business strategy,
skills, practices, partnerships and capacity ("export culture") of export subprojects; and to determine the
likely dimensions of economic impact .    3  They found that firms' knowledge of export markets rose
substantially and detected clearly that EMAF strongly facilitated risk-taking into the export market, a more
disciplined, methodical approach to the process, deepening in the quality of export development, and
capacity-building at the firm level.

In addition, the modernized Customs is now more focused on trade facilitation than control. The
simplification and automated processing of trade documents has had indirect effects in terms of back-office
reengineering and efficiency of agencies involved in trade transactions, and has made their trade clearance
processes more efficient and thus less timely for enterprises. The Tunisie TradeNet (TTN) system is
considered one of the most innovative trade documentation processing schemes in the region. Several other
countries are now in the process of implementing Single Windows for trade transactions based on the
experience of TTN.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Market Access component. This component is rated highly satisfactory. It addressed the disadvantage
facing Tunisian exporters of export market know-how and knowledge gaps. Owing to good promotion,
regional access and sound core management, the EMAF attracted a high level of demand (more than 1,100
firms requested assistance) which led to assistance to 595 firms, surpassing by 71 percent the performance
target of 350 firms. More than half of the firms assisted entered 57 new export markets that extend far
beyond Tunisia's traditional four European markets, 40 percent became new exporters, and 6 percent
developed new export products (Table 2). Subprojects were self-selected by participating firms with the
review and approval of the EMAF Steering Committee. Demand by sector was broadly distributed across
industries and services producing textiles and clothes, metal mechanical and electrical equipment,
commerce, agro-business, chemicals, ceramics and handicrafts, and information technology. The EMAF
supported a substantial share of SMEs with lower than expected grant size. The average export subproject


                                                     - 6 -

grant was US$14,700, against appraisal estimates of US$28,600, and one-half of the total average export
subproject cost of US$28,400.

                                        Table 1: Performance Indicators

 Performance Indicator                     Year 1      Year 2    Year 3   Year 4      Year 5     Total

 Export Market Access

 Number of new exporters                     20          120      150       60           0        350
 assisted during the life of the
 Export Market Access
                          Actual             33          152      173       162          75       595


 Preshipment Export Finance
           Guarantee
Total amount of guarantee coverage (US$m)     5          10        20       40           50       125
              Revised end-2002                5           5        10       15           20       55
                          Actual            2.8          2.1      2.2       5.5         5.0       17.6


 Additional exports generated (US$m)         19          37        74       148         185       463
              Revised end-2002               19          19        37       56           92       223
                          Actual            4.8          3.3      3.5       10.9         12       34.5


 Trade Facilitation

 Time taken for submission of                48          36        24        24          24
   electronic manifest (hours)
                           Actual            48          36        24        24          24
 Customs clearance time                   2-3 days     2-3 days  30 mins  15 mins     15 mins
                           Actual          3 days      2-3 days  2 days   30 mins     15 mins
Percentage of merchandise                  30-50         30        20        15          10
inspected (%)
                          Actual           50-80         40        20        15         10.3



          Table 2 ­ EMAF Key Indicators
 Export diversification (% total firms)
   New export markets                                53
   New exporting enterprises                         41
   New export products                                6


 Firm Participation - (% total)
   Microenterprise                                   13
   Small business                                    37
   Medium business                                   22
   Large business                                    28

The impact surveys conducted at various stages of project implementation (footnote 3), as well as
beneficiary surveys conducted for this ICR showed that more than half of participants adopted export



                                                  - 7 -

strategies of good or better quality. Participating firms having a unit responsible for export business rose
from 10 percent to 37 percent. Participating firms acquiring export management skills of good or better
quality rose from 8 percent to 38 percent.

Support for firm-level export plans were reinforced in multiple ways by EMAF's technical assistance,
training and management support programs. EMAF sponsored 16 training cycles on various export
development themes managed by FORMATEX (an affiliate of the French Center for International Trade),
which involved over 700 participants; and 20 training cycles for over 300 consultants. One of the most
prominent partnership arrangements generated by FAMEX was with the Canadian Fund for Private Sector
Development and the Euro-Tunisian Enterprise Program. Such collaboration included technical assistance
in Canada for two groups of 15 enterprises from the clothing sector and a pilot program to develop export
departments among 16 enterprises in the agro-business and information technology sectors.           It also
generated group-based assistance programs for 9 enterprises in the information and communications
technologies that enabled their participation in expositions in France and export promotion in other
European destinations.

PEFG component. This component is rated unsatisfactory. The PEFG scheme performed below initial
objectives in terms of working capital loans guaranteed and additional exports generated. The activities of
the PEFG have been very irregular. With an allocation of US$5 million, it started issuing guarantees
mid-year 2000. The first year of operations suggested scheme success, with 43 guarantee certificates
granted during the first three semesters (October 2000 to September 2001). After that point, the PEFG
only managed to deliver about 20 Certificates for each of the next three semesters (March 2002-September
2003). The PEFG's best performance was in 2003 as it was able to guarantee about US$5 million in
exports and increase issuance of certificates to about 45 per semester. Overall, the ratio of additional
exports to guaranteed credit improved from 1.6 in 2001 to 2.3 in 2004. During the five years, the PEFG
covered a total of TD20,5 million, equivalent to US$15 million of guaranties over the period 2000-04,
making possible almost TD40 million of exports, equivalent to US$30 million or 12 percent of revised
targets.

The poor performance pattern is explained by a number of factors:

     (a)Reduced demand for Tunisia's exports in the aftermath of September 11 that made it more
        challenging for first time exporters to obtain export orders (required for PEFG).
     (b)Collateral-based vs. guarantee-based lending. The experience shows that more time was required
        than initially thought to change lending behavior of banks. Banks were not used to lend without
        collateral.
     (c)Management changes. Perhaps the most significant factor is weaknesses and regular turnover in
        PEFG management team. The COTUNACE president, who was a member of the Borrower
        counterpart team for the Project, was involved in project preparation and negotiations and was
        instrumental in the success of the PEFG during its first year. As the head of the Risk Agreement
        Committee (Comité d'agrément des risques -- CAR), he ensured that all the operational modality
        and rules for PEFG agreed with the Bank were followed. He also assigned a competent team to
        manage the daily operations of PEFG and led an extensive marketing program (awareness
        building) for banks and enterprises about the availability and the nature of PEFG. During his
        tenure, the first year of PEFG implementation, the PEFG performance was satisfactory. When the
        COTUNACE management changed, the PEFG management team was replaced with a part time
        manager with little institutional backing and no business plan. Consequently, the banks started to
        lose confidence in the scheme. In 2003, when the COTUNACE new management was convinced
        of the importance of the PEFG concept, a stronger team was put in charge of the PEFG and the


                                                     - 8 -

          results improved drastically, albeit below performance targets (Table 3).
      (d)Restrictive interpretation of "bad faith" risk. A decision of the CAR not to reimburse the banks for
          loan defaults due to "bad faith" of the borrower had a drastically negative effect on the credibility
          of the PEFG scheme, which was counter to the agreement reached between the Borrower and the
          Bank at the negotiations.
      (e) Lack of synergies with the EMAF component of the project. Many of the EMAF clients were
          first-time exporters who succeeded in obtaining an export order. These firms were not directly
          targeted by the PEFG team until the last year of its operation.

                                              Table 3: PEFG's Performance

                                    Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Year 4
 CUMULATIVE (DT)               31 Oct.   30 Mar.  30 Sept.   31 Mar.  30 Sept.   31 Mar.  30 Sept.   31 Mar.  31 Aug. 2004
                               2000       2001     2001       2002     2002       2003     2003       2004
 Number of Certificates         31         60      103         124     148        175      220        267        285
 Number of businesses           NA         34       50         54       65         72       80         86         91
 Avg. no. of certificates per             1.8      2.1         2.3     2.3         2.4     2.8        3.1         3.1
 firm
 Value of Guarantees (in        2.1       4.0      5.5         6.8     8.4         9.9     13.3       17.0       18.9
 m)
 Value of Exports               NA        6.7      9.3        11.3     14.2       16.3     23.8       30.4       33.3
 Loans in default               NA        0.33     0.80       0.43     1.06       0.60     0.64       0.50        NA
 Indemnification                NA                 0.11       0.24     0.48       0.48     0.68       0.68       0.69
 Guarantee fees                 NA        0.03     0.04       0.06     0.07       0.08     NA         NA         0.13
 INCREMENTAL (DT)               0.04      0.04                0.04                0.04                0.04       0.04
 Number of certificates         31         29       43         21       24         27       45         47         18
 Number of businesses                     NA        16          4       11          7        8          6          5
 Value of Guarantees (in        2.1       1.9      1.5         1.3     1.6         1.5     3.4        3.7         1.9
 m)
 Value of Exports                         NA       2.7         2.1     2.9         2.1     7.5        6.7         2.9
 Guarantee fees                           NA       0.01       0.01     0.01       0.009    NA         NA          NA


Trade facilitation component. This component is rated satisfactory. The component led to the
simplification and adoption of international standards for trade documentation, building on the work that
was initiated earlier with the support of the European Commission. Five documents previously required by
the authorities were re-designed ­ two documents were eliminated, while the remaining (the Titre du
Commerce Extérieur (TCE), customs declaration, and technical control documents) were redesigned and
aligned with international standards to reduce duplication and to standardize terminology. In addition, two
of the four documents required for goods removal were eliminated. The development of electronic formats
for trade documents made it possible both to share information amongst the various stakeholders and to
process the information contained within the documents.

Building on this foundation, a key initiative was the creation of a semi-public agency (Tunisie TradeNet --
TTN) to develop and operate a value-added network providing electronic data interchange (EDI) for
stakeholders and expediting flows and processing of information contained in trade documents. TTN
shareholders include 10 government agencies, among which are the national port authority and Tunis Air,
and 18 private sector units, among which are several banks and the Tunisian Internet Agency. The system
interfaces with agencies involved in international trade procedures, including the Customs, Ministry of
Commerce, Central Bank, Port Authority, as well as the private sector traders, agents, freight forwarders,
customs brokers and banks. Technical control agencies are not yet part of the network, but will be
integrated into it under the Second Export Development Project.

The flow of documents is depicted in Figure A (situation before TTN, characterized by duplication of
information capture and exchange, and reliance on paper, resulting in an inefficient and time consuming set


                                                             - 9 -

of goods clearance procedures) and Figure B (electronic processing through TTN). Three main sets of
documents are processed through the TTN system: (i) the Titre du Commerce Extérieur (TCE); (ii)
customs declaration; and (iii) technical control documents. In addition, the system processes on-line tariff
payments.

       Trade document processing - before

                     Customs          Freight
                                      Forwarders
      Shipping
      Agents                                  Ministry of
                                              Commerce
   Traders

                                                Port
     Customs                                    Authority
      Brokers
                                        Technical
                  Cargo                  Control
                 Handling     Banks
  Figure A


         Trade document processing - after

                     Customs          Freight
                                      Forwarders
       Shipping
       Agents                                 Ministry of
                                              Commerce
    Traders              TTN EDI
                          Server
                                                 Port
      Customs                                    Authority
      Brokers
                                         Technical
                   Cargo                  Control
                 Handling      Banks
   Figure B




A single connection to the central server enables each participant to exchange documents and messages
with other participants. Shipping manifests and customs declarations are sent over the network, thereby
reducing processing time. The manifest data for Customs is also available to the cargo handling operator
in electronic format, eliminating data capture by the latter and improving planning and operational
processes. TTN provides a flexible user interface: Trade professionals (customs brokers, freight
forwarders, ship agents, etc.) use client based applications that are designed to handle processing of large
numbers of transactions whereas occasional users can opt for a web-based interface.

About 70,000 trade documents are processed annually through the Tunisie TradeNet (TTN) network. All
of the TCE (Titre de Commerce Extérieur) are now processed through the TTN, representing a time saving
of 1-2 days compared to paper/manual processing. In 2004, 14,236 TCEs were processed through TTN. In
addition, 5 freight forwarders process manifest through the TTN network. A relatively small share of the
customs declaration and supporting messages are at present processed through the network but this share is
increasing. Manifest processing after the completion of vessel operations used to take up to 4 days--but
electronic processing has cut this time to one day. Payment of customs and port duties and storage charges



                                                    - 10 -

now takes only a few hours, rather than a full day. The time needed to prepare and process customs
declarations has dropped to 15 minutes, down from as long as 3 days.

Customs has completed the upgrade of its customs management system (software and hardware) and has
added in March 2004, the key feature of selectivity and risk management. This has enabled substantial
reduction in processing time through an automated review of data within a customs declaration to assess
risk of non-compliance and acceptance of declaration. The risk management features of the system will be
further enhanced in EDP II to provide for more sophisticated tuning through additional control parameters.
In 2003, the physical inspection of goods reached the target level of 15 percent, down from 50­80 percent
in late 1998. Scanning and analysis of a full container load that were supported by the component, now
takes an average of two minutes, whereas complete manual verification required up to 12 hours and three
customs staff. At the port of Radès, the use of the scanners has contributed to the reduction of about 65
percent in parking area for trucks waiting for container verification.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The project supported the development and acceleration of an institution building process that would lead
to increased exports, job creation and economic growth.           While formal quantitative cost-benefit or
cost-effectiveness analysis would not capture many of the project's economic benefits, especially those
associated with institutional development, the appraisal mission did conduct an illustrative economic
analysis. The analysis was replicated by this ICR to compare the results with the appraisal estimates.
Empirical experience has shown that the improved entrepreneurship that results from programs such as
EMAF, the additional exports generated through the PEFG, and the savings in transactions costs resulting
from trade facilitation measures, have led to quantifiable benefits in the form of additional exports, value
added, employment and market links.

At the appraisal, the illustrative total projected value of additional exports generated through EMAF was
estimated at US$225 million. The present value (NPV) of economic benefits net of EMAF program costs
was estimated at US$175 million. The re-estimated calculations using the same methodology , which 4,


capture the actual incremental exports between 2002-2004 and those projected over 2005-07, yield total
EMAF-related exports of US$418 million and a PV of net economic benefits of US$286 million (63
percent above appraisal estimates). The EMAF component also anticipated a positive social impact, due to
the increased business generated and particularly expanded employment. Based on comparable past export
and employment data for Tunisia, it is estimated that EMAF participants created approximately 4,000 new
jobs among micro, small ­and­medium size firm (MSMEs) over 2000-2004, yielding an average grant cost
per job of about US$4,000.

As for the PEFG, the US$5 million PEFG has generated about US$35 million of additional annual exports,
This figure, which was a fraction of expected additional exports, would have been higher had the issues
discussed in Section 4 been addressed earlier by the PEFG management team. In addition, trade facilitation
investments are increasingly showing economic benefits. As an indication, a preliminary estimate of the
time savings for clearance time (from an average of 8 to 3 days) is roughly equivalent to 0.2% of GDP,
assuming that the annual exports are US$3 billion.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Incremental exports generated through the Project resulted in additional tax revenues from: (a) payroll
taxes paid by exporting firms and employees; (b) value-added taxes generated by incremental consumption
of existing and new employees; and (c) corporate income taxes. As an illustration, the re-estimated present



                                                     - 11 -

value of the total indirect tax recovery from EMAF would be about US$39 million (which is lower than
appraisal estimates of US$43 million due to the proportion of offshore incremental exports which were
nearly half the total), representing approximately 3.4 times the return of the Government's investment in
EMAF grants and operating cost.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated satisfactory. The project has substantially contributed to
institutional development in the trade development sector in Tunisia. The Project's institutional aims
included building sponsorship of CEPEX to carry out the EMAF, under the concept that such intervention
would be simple and quickly implementable to maximize the demonstration effect, and to create momentum
and credibility to implement the government's trade promotion strategy. Under CEPEX oversight, the
EMAF Supervision Committee and management team maintained a strong focus on client needs and
interests, maintained sound links between the public and private sector EMAF stakeholders, and provided
highly-client responsive support. It successfully demonstrated a strategy of facilitating market development
rather than the public sector-directed promotion. This public-private cooperation program has been broadly
accepted, particularly by private sector stakeholders, and renewed by the Government under EMAF II, and
bodes well for sustainable institutional development. Care will nevertheless be needed to nurture this good
start with time in light of normal staff turnover and transitions. Equally important, an incipient and growing
local market of export business development services has appeared in Tunisia that forms a basis for
expansion under EMAF II.

Furthermore, the project was instrumental in developing a pioneering e-government mechanism for trade
transaction processing and clearance. The institutional development impact of this support, which will be
continued through the Second Export Development Project, included a customs administration that is more
focused on trade facilitation than trade control, and government agencies that are more responsive to the
needs of the trading community, and therefore contribute to the countries' competitiveness.

The project also aimed to be a catalyst to establish a friendlier attitude of the Tunisian banks towards
SMEs willing to export and having already conquered their first export order. It therefore aimed at filling
the gap between firms with good export potential and the financial institutions. However, it clearly appears
that this gap is so important that the PEFG could not, by itself, be a solution.

An important behavioral change brought about by the project is manifested through the willingness of
Tunisian firms to pay (market prices) for export promotion services, therefore trusting in market provision
of these services. In addition, trade control agencies (especially customs) have adopted an approach which
is more in line with trade facilitation than trade control and revenue generation.


2
 There was substantial difference in performance among components, with EMAF and trade facilitation components largely achieving their objective,
and PEFG performing well below expectations.
3
 Midterm Review (March 2002); Balance of FAMEX I and orientation of FAMEX II (September 2003); FAMEX qualitative evaluation (end-2003);
GEOMAR Report (April 2004); Sigma Conseil Survey (September 2004); FAMEX Impact Study, ISTIS (April 2004). Copies are available in
project files.

4
 The key assumptions underling the calculations were (1) An average US$28,500 EMAF grant would increase exports by 2.5 times in the first year
after the program is implemented, followed by annual multiples of 5 in year two and 15 in year 3; then all attributable benefits would cease; (2) net
present value was calculated based on the 180 day LIBOR rate of 6.0 percent. (3) value-added distribution within this export stream is based on
Ecuador as a benchmark country; and (4) taxes on exporting firms are calculated on average fiscal recovery, not nominal rates, which are assumed to
be 17.5 percent on payroll taxes and 20 percent on income. Taxes on export firm employees, also based on recovery rates, are 9.35 percent on salaries
and 3 percent effective based on VAT paid out of salaries on expenses in the economy.




                                                                       - 12 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The post-September 11 economic conditions had a transitory negative impact on Tunisia's export
opportunities. This made it more challenging for some emerging exporters to secure export orders, thereby
affecting the potential outcome of the Project. Another factor adversely affecting implementation and the
outcomes was the often limited capacity of firms that were smaller and those that were totally new to the
export market. This frequently implied a lack of depth within such firms to undertake the critical elements
needed for successful exporting, caused frequent adjustment in implementation and budget plans, required
unanticipated levels of support from EMAF management, and prolonged implementation periods that
typically ranged from 18 to 24 months. This factor was intensified by the relative weakness of the
domestic consulting market to help alleviate these problems. At the same time, many EMAF beneficiaries
have noted that a factor often adversely affecting implementation and outcomes was the business
environment in Tunisia for exporting. They voiced the need for improvements to reduce, for example, high
logistics costs, poor access to information and communications technology services, and access to credit,
all of which reduce the competitiveness of the export sector and its benefits to the country.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The EMAF Steering Committee, headed by the PDG of CEPEX and composed of representatives from the
Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Finance, COTUNACE, and UTICA (FEDEX), was a sound guiding
force in the definition of the broad orientation and strategies of the EMAF scheme. Its execution was
according to the Operational Manual, approval of co-financing requests and annual work programs
submitted by the management team, and in submission of annual activity and financial status reports to
CEPEX Board of Directors, the GoT, and the Bank.

As for the PEFG, while the banks appreciated the PEFG as an important mechanism to help them evaluate
the non-performance risk of emerging exporters, they fell short of using it to the extent that was foreseen at
project inception. One key reason is the decision of the CAR not to reimburse the banks for loan defaults
due to bad faith, which negatively affected the credibility of the PEFG scheme and inhibited its
performance. This decision was not consistent with the agreement reached by the Government and the
World Bank in March 1999 and reflected in project documents that non payment of credit to the banks due
to bad faith would be covered by the PEFG, even if the export was delivered. The Bank has noted, and
welcomes, the recent decision (January 2005) of the Comité d'agrément des risques (CAR) and the
Ministry of Finance to accept that PEFG reimburse for defaults due to "bad-faith" and to reimburse the
banks for bad-faith default cases that remain unfulfilled.

The outcome of the trade facilitation component could have been more impressive if there was stronger
coordination among different agencies involved in the TTN network. After the first year, the coordination
committee appointed initially by the Minister of Commerce did not convene and was not re-established until
2003. An expected benefit of this coordination would have been full processing of customs declarations
through the TTN at project closing.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

On the positive side, the EMAF management team performed well in executing the program within the
framework of annual plans approved by the Steering Committee. The Director/Coordinator and his group
of Tunisian and expatriate international trade specialists combined substantial experience in export



                                                     - 13 -

development, export market requirements, local business experience and management of matching grants.
Together, they were the critical drivers that carried out the promotion and marketing of the EMAF,
established close working relationships with beneficiary enterprises, helped many enterprises to develop
their export plans, and evaluated their progress.

On the negative side, the weaknesses in PEFG management team negatively affected the outcome of the
component. The COTUNACE management and PEFG team applied a restrictive interpretation of the terms
of the "Manuel de procedure" which resulted in conflicting relations with banks and a negative image. Of a
total of 57 claims notified to the PEFG, 27 were rejected, only 19 were fully repaid and 8 are still open, the
oldest lasting from 2002. In part due to this weakness, a few banks used the PEFG as a supplementary
guaranty for experienced exporters (one firm used it 28 times, and two others used it 18 times), instead of
using it as a catalyst to help new exporters access to initial financing. The insufficient resources allocated
to PEFG management were also played a key role in undermining the performance of the component. Note
that the performance was on target during the first year when sufficient resources were allocated to the
PEFG by COTUNACE, and when there was no case of default due to "bad faith". The change in the
management of COTUNACE along with the PEFG management team in 2001 was the start of the
performance problems as noted by several supervision missions. During 2003, after a poor performance in
2002, a dramatic improvement was realized in the promotion of the PEFG towards banks and firms, when
a dedicated team of professional was set up to manage the PEFG. As a result, the PEFG's activity more
than doubled in 2003. But in the early months of 2004, the Head of the new team resigned and was never
replaced.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total EMAF costs over the 2000-2004 implementation period were US$23.2 million, or 94 percent of
appraisal estimates (see Table 3). The shortfall is due in part to the rise in value of the US Dollar against
the Tunisian Dinar, from 1 US$ = 0.90 TD at appraisal to around 1 US$ = 1.35 TD during much of
implementation, and to a lower than anticipated average grant value per firm (51 percent of appraisal
estimates). EMAF management costs totaled US$3.3 million (94 percent of loan amount allocated to this
sub-component) and incorporated much direct pre-financing technical support provided as part of such
management, along with explicit pre-financing technical support to build export know-how and
implementation capacity.

Financing of EMAF costs was covered by disbursements of the Bank's loan totaling US$12.9 million (56
percent of total EMAF cost), private sector matching PEFGs under individual export plans totaling US$9.5
million (41 percent of total cost) and government financing totaling US$1.0 million (4% of total cost),
mainly for EMAF operating costs and equipment.




                                                    - 14 -

                  Table 3 - Project Costs and Bank Loan Expenditures, Expected and Actual (US$ million)
         Component                         Appraisal Estimate                             Actual
                               Total Cost    Bank      GoT       Firms Total Cost  Bank      GoT        Firms
                                           Financing                             Financing
 1. Export Market Access
     EMAF Matching Grant          20.0       10.0        -       10.0    19.0       19.6       -        9.5
     EMAF Management and
     other                         5.0        4.0      1.0         -      4.2       3.3       1.0         -
     Technical Assistance
        Total Component 1         25.0       14.0      1.0       10.0    23.2       12.9      1.0       9.5
 2. PEFG
     PEFG                          5.0        5.0                                   5.0
     Information Network           0.5        0.2                                   0.09
     PEFG marketing, Training      0.5        0.2                                   0.01
     etc.
        Total Component 2          6.0        5.4                                   5.1
 3. Trade Facilitation
     Customs, Port Authority
     (OMMP) and EDI server
     (Ministry of Commerce)       19.36      15.25                                  8.7
        Total Component 3         19.36      15.25                                  8.7



Cumulative Project loan disbursements for EMAF (see Table 4) reached 95 percent of appraisal estimates
at the end of the Project. They lagged appraisal estimates due mainly to the Tunisian dinar devaluation,
delays in loan effectiveness, and to longer than expected average implementation periods to implement
export plans and lower average grants per firm than estimated at appraisal. The remaining undisbursed
US$1 million of the Bank loan initial allocated to EMAF was cancelled upon the closing of the loan
account.

                    Table 4 - Cumulative Bank Loan Disbursements for EMAF
     WB Fiscal Year          Appraisal Estimates     Actual Disbursements    Actual/Appraisal
                                   (US$mm)                  (US$mm)                (%)
  FY00                                3.8
  FY01                                7.8                      0.03                 4
  FY02                               11.7                      1.8                  15
  FY03                               13.5                      3.9                  29
  FY04                               13.5                      7.6                  56
  FY05                               13.5                      12.9                 95



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability is rated as highly satisfactory. The changed behaviors (public-private partnerships,
willingness of firms to take risks, etc.) induced by the programs supported under the project, especially
EMAF, are likely to be sustainable. Both EMAF and PEFG were designed as temporary instruments to
reduce market failures and to induce market mechanisms.               The EMAF success in inducing market
mechanisms for export promotion services has been extraordinary. At the firm level, EMAF impact
assessments described in Section 4.2 reflect that a majority of firms surveyed considered prospects of
sustaining their export development to be good or excellent. This is due largely to the facts that EMAF
has: (i) helped firms to meet the unusually high initial export market entry costs and encouraged a durable


                                                         - 15 -

commitment to export markets as long as operating costs are covered; (ii) introduced firms to the benefits
of using business development services and helped firms to recognize their full value so as to no longer
need subsidies to motivate their use; and (iii) encouraged initial development of a local market of export
business development services to complement and compete with those from overseas.

The sustainability of EMAF's outcome was also discussed at the stakeholders' workshop. The participants
pointed out that they have witnessed a sharp improvement (through EMAF) of export service delivery
compared to previous methods (e.g., FOPRODEX) which the participants did not find very effective in
addressing the real needs to enter export markets. They also noted three additional key reasons. First, the
emergence of a core of export consultants that can assist firms conclude sales in foreign markets. Second,
the willingness of enterprises to pay for export services. Third, the export capacity created at the enterprise
level (e.g., through the development of export cells).

Similarly, the PEFG is, by nature, a catalyst to improve information about (and allow appropriate
evaluation of) non-performance risks of emerging exporters. As such, it was designed to work as an
incentive for banks to service new exporters by reducing their risk. While its impact has been less than
expected, the beneficiary survey indicated that its importance (in terms of temporary risk sharing) is
acknowledged by the banks and enterprises. Its relative failure was due to a combination of lack of means,
management deficiency and goodwill, rather than poor design.

The trade facilitation mechanisms are also saving time and costs for enterprises, thereby enhancing their
competitiveness. It would be hard to imagine that these firms will go back to paper-based and inefficient
trade document processing. Changing customs law requiring electronic processing and modern customs
techniques attests to government commitment to maintain the directions set by the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The GoT has concluded arrangements with the Bank for EDP II, which began operation in January 2005
and has sustainable financing to provide the counterpart funding. Requests by Tunisian firms for EMAF II
support as of December 2004 had already been received from more than 300 firms. The PEFG will also be
continued under the EDP II with the new management team incorporating lessons learned during the first
project. Trade facilitation will be deepened to include technical control agencies, standards and WTO
Technical Barriers to Trade aspects.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in lending was satisfactory. It participated in a set of initial dialogues with the
Government and private sector associations to create a sound mutual rationale for the public-private
partnership approach to export development that EMAF embodies. Similar efforts were also undertaken
for the design of the PEFG and trade facilitation components. It brought to bear cross-country experience
based upon its own knowledge and that of practitioners in other countries, some of whom were part of the
Bank project team. It further supported work under project preparation that resulted in sound quality at
entry, a well-defined implementation plan and prompt start-up that were later reflected in good loan
disbursement rates over the implementation period.




                                                    - 16 -

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory.             Under the delivery phase, the Bank provided
substantial and regular engagement with and technical guidance to the implementing agencies and other
project stakeholders to facilitate project implementation and evaluation. Fiduciary responsibilities were
adequately exercised to ensure proper procurement and financial and administrative management of the
project. There was also substantial continuity in task management, which facilitated project quality, a good
continuing relationship with stakeholders and maintenance of institutional memory. Thanks to continuous
advice from MNA Quality Assurance Team, the quality of supervision reporting was consistently good
(PSR).

The Bank supervision missions throughout 2002-04 also attempted to flag the risks that could slow down
project performance. They specifically raised the poor performance of the PEFG and proposed concrete
measures to improve the performance. At the end of 2002, the Bank convinced its Tunisian counterparts to
improve and reinforce the Management team, which successfully lasted for more than a year. Then the head
of the team resigned. But the Bank, despite many demands, could not convince the COTUNACE to impose
a change in the restrictive approach of the coverage during project implementation (the "bad-faith" issue).
Fortunately, COTUNACE and the Ministry of Finance accepted the Bank's recommendations and have
revised this approach after project closing.      The Bank support for PEFG under the Second Export
Development Project is mainly on this basis.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank maintained strong and collaborative relations
with the client throughout project design and implementation, and provided continuous advice to resolve
implementation issues when necessary. The Bank team's timely recognition of coordination issues of the
trade facilitation component and the advice to remedy the shortcomings was key in reversing the slowdown
in project implementation around the mid-terms of the project.           Regarding the PEFG, the negative
assessment of the scheme should not reflect negatively on the performance of the Bank, as it provided
advice on several occasions which were not fully addressed by the PEFG management.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance in project preparation was highly satisfactory. It invested considerably in
participation and analysis in project design phase, involving public and private sector stakeholders, along
with local and international consultants, practitioners and Bank staff. Such participation took the form
primarily of (i) firm-level surveys of exporters and non-exporters to determine key constraints and various
structured interviews with firms and associations; and (ii) information dissemination and workshops on
cross-country experience and international good practice in matching grant, preshipment export finance and
trade facilitation. This resulted in good quality at entry as described in Section 3.5.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The personal involvement of the
Minister of Commerce and the continuous supervision by the Superior Investment and Export Council
(SIEC) was instrumental in the project's success. The Minister made every effort to resolve issues raised
by supervision missions. This was at time done during wrap up meetings of the supervision missions. He
also discussed with the members of the SIEC issues that could hold back project performance. It was



                                                     - 17 -

through this involvement and consultation process that the coordination issues concerning the trade
facilitation could be overcome.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

EMAF's Steering Committee and the EMAF management team's performance in implementing the
Project were highly satisfactory. They maintained a strong focus on client needs and interests, and
maintained sound links between the public and private sector EMAF stakeholders. They brought life to an
entirely new export development concept with strong drive and vision.           They provided highly-client
responsive support to firm participating in the program, prompt disbursements against eligible expenditures
and tight financial management. They also generated a wide range of complementary group training
initiatives to deepen implementation capacity by firms and the consulting community.

The performance of the Ministry of Commerce in managing the trade facilitation component is also
satisfactory, although the coordination of the agencies involved in trade transaction clearance could have
been stronger.

The COTUNACE, as the implementing agency of the PEFG, did not play the expected role in
managing the scheme beyond the first year and its performance is unsatisfactory. This is reflected in
the limited success of the PEFG. The means dedicated to it was always clearly below what was really
needed and agreed with the Bank.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Expanding EMAF-like public-private partnerships for effective export development. The EMAF
experience shows that a public-private approach is more effective in export development than purely public
and centralized support. Though Tunisian enterprises were heretofore unwilling to pay for export services,
EMAF clients now pay half of the technical assistance costs of export business development services and
surveys reflect that 60 percent are ready to cover the full costs of export consultants. This demand-driven
approach has also simultaneously helped to stimulate a new local market of business development services
focused on the export market. Success of this partnership depends upon a delicate balance of public policy
and financial support and a light, flexible and efficient private sector-like program execution. EMAF
management has received high marks from clients for very good program and financial management
services, which they characterize as critical to success. This balance achieved in EMAF is essential for the
success of EMAF II and other such programs. Early monitoring and evaluation of EMAF subprojects was
undertaken and was a sound tool for program management and adjustments. It was also useful to herald
early successes and maintain continuing support for the program.

Importance of proactive management and supervision for the success of pre-shipment export financing
schemes. A strong and credible management team cultivating good relations with financial institutions is
critical for the schemes similar to PEFG that serve as catalyst to address export financing constraints.
Proper promotion and marketing of the scheme is also important.

For PEFG-like schemes to succeed, key non-performance risks should be addressed.                 The main
conclusion of this 5 years experience is that the relation between banks and firms in Tunisia is very
conflicting, this being the consequence of many factors: bad faith of many firms, excessive risk aversion


                                                     - 18 -

from bankers, etc. The survey conducted among firms and banks confirmed that the instrument is needed,
useful and effective, but it will not work unless the bad-faith issue is addressed.

Government commitment should be strong for the success of this type of project. Tunisia's experience
points to the dramatic institutional development that can be achieved through this kind of operation. It also
points to the improvements in trade clearing that can result when administrative and political commitment
combines with advances in information and communications technology. Perhaps the most important
prerequisite for this is commitment at the highest level of government. This was made possible in Tunisia
by the close involvement of the Minister of Commerce, and the supervision of the President who was also
the chairman of the Superior Export and Investment Council, a cross-ministerial committee.

Collaboration and coordination among various agencies. Due to the multiplicity of actors involved in
trade transactions and clearance processes, a key factor for success was cooperation among private and
government stakeholders at all stages of the reform process. This was achieved by creating a steering
committee and a technical committee composed of key stakeholders at the early stages of the process. These
committees were instrumental not only in the design of the initiatives, but also in their implementation. On
the other hand, the outcome of the PEFG component would probably have been more promising if there
were more collaboration between COTUNACE and CEPEX in executing their respective components.

The regulatory framework should allow electronic processing of trade documents and signature.
Another success factor for the trade facilitation component was the adoption of a regulatory framework
that allowed and supported electronic processing and signatures. Among the most important changes were
allowing value added network services to be supplied through telecommunications and the Internet,
introducing a new, streamlined customs declaration procedure and procedures for submitting and
processing external trade documents through the TTN system, and recognizing the legal validity of
electronic documents and signatures.

Other success factors for trade facilitation. Other success factors included: (a) simplifying customs
requirements; (b) extending electronic processing to all import and export administration and other agencies
involved in trade transactions, and developing their "back offices " to handle electronic processing of trade
documents; (c) adopting internationally recognized standards and codes to ensure a common language
among different users and in different countries; and (d) aligning the relative costs of processing
documentation on paper and online.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower has reviewed the draft ICR and has submitted its own review of project performance (Annex
10). The following is a translation of the Borrower's contribution to Section 9 of the ICR:

The framework under which the project was developed was consistent with Tunisia's economic strategy,
especially with respect to export development, as spelled out in the Export Development Strategy of the
government. After five years of implementation, the project has had positive development impact and is
likely to be sustainable, as evidenced by the results of the beneficiary survey and the fact that the
government is committed to consolidate the reforms initiated under the project through a second EDP.

As such, the 595 enterprises that have benefited from EMAF assistance have confirmed the impact of this
program in terms of possibilities open to them to export.           The PEFG component also has allowed



                                                     - 19 -

enterprises that never exported before to benefit from government guarantees to the banks, and to overcome
the lack of physical collateral for these enterprises. The PEFG has delivered 288 guarantee certificates and
its performance is expected to improve under EDP II. The trade facilitation component helped develop the
TTN platform and modernize customs based on the requirement of the new international environment,
notably through the introduction of risk management and selectivity criteria.

Under the leadership of the Ministry of Commerce, as the main government agency responsible for the
project, a steering committee, a technical committee, three executing agencies were set up to supervise and
carry out project implementation, as well as Project Coordination and Supervision Unit (PCSU). This
organization, as well as the participation of these committees and agencies in project preparation, proved
essential in the successful implementation of the project. In addition to regular contacts with the executing
agencies, the PCSU was the focal point for assembling the required documentation for the project (financial
management, audit, etc.).

The contribution of the World Bank team to all phases of the project cycle also constituted an important
element in the success of the project and the identification of the organizational and systemic factors that
could have hampered project implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of new exporters assisted during the 350                                             595
life of the Export Market Access Fund
(Number of export plans in Phase 2)

Total amount of guarantee coverage (US$m) 15                                                17

Additional exports generated (US$m)             74.1 revised June 2003                      34.5

Time taken for submission of electronic         24                                          24
manifest (hours)

Customs clearance time                          15 minutes                                  15 minutes

Percentage of merchandise                       10                                          10.3
Inspected (%)


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved access to export markets through       Number of new exporters and new exports     246 new exporters
matching grants aimed at developing new                                                     Actual (2001-2004) = $196 million
products, process and markets                                                               Project (2001-2007)=$418 million


Advice rendered to SMEs and emerging            Number of enterprises assisted to reach 350 595 enterprise clients reached by 2004
exporters on export planning and sources of     by end of the third year following project
expertise to facilitate their access to matchingeffectiveness
grants


Development of private advisory capacity,
through EMAF cofinancing, that would
provide a basis for continued technical
support to export diversification and growth at
the enterprise level


1 End of project




                                                                   - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Export Market Access                                        14.00          12.99            37.11
Preshipment Export Finance Guarantee                         5.40            5.12           14.62
Trade Facilitation                                          15.25            8.70           24.85

Total Baseline Cost                                         34.65          26.81
                        Total Project Costs                 34.65          26.81
                                        Front-end fee        0.35            0.35
                  Total Financing Required                  35.00          27.16




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              7.65         0.00         0.00          7.65
                                  (0.00)           (5.14)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (5.14)
2. Goods                          7.70              4.20         0.00         0.00         11.90
                                  (6.30)           (2.88)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (9.18)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        25.38         0.00         25.38
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (15.38)        (0.00)      (15.38)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         5.00         0.00          5.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.00)         (0.00)       (5.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          7.70             11.85        30.38         0.00         49.93
                                  (6.30)           (8.02)      (20.38)        (0.00)      (34.70)




                                                - 22 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                6.03               2.11              0.49             0.01              8.63
                                          (4.67)             (0.65)            (0.56)            (0.00)           (5.88)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.25             0.30              1.54
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.96)            (0.28)           (1.24)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                6.03               2.11              1.73             0.31             10.17
                                          (4.67)             (0.65)            (1.52)            (0.28)           (7.12)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Export Market Access          14.00         0.50                    12.99         0.79                  92.8     158.0

Preshipment Export             5.40         0.60                     5.12         0.08                  94.8      13.3
Finance Guarantee

Trade Facilitation            15.25         4.00                     8.70         1.61                  57.0      40.3

Front-end Fee                  0.35                                  0.35                               100.0




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                             Socioeconomic benefits from the EMAF and PEFG

While formal quantitative cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis can only be illustrative for an
"institution building" project such as this one, the appraisal team conducted a socioeconomic assessment,
which admittedly did not capture many of the project's economic benefits. In addition, economic impact
estimates reflect only the early results of mainly commercial promotion activities undertaken rather than the
effects of re-positioning a firm for longer-term export development. They also do not factor in capital
investment that may have resulted from project's assistance but which could play an important role in
economic outcomes.

The project supported the development and acceleration of an institution building process that led to
increased exports and job creation. Accordingly, the present analysis estimates the economic benefits
related to additional or accelerated exports, jobs created, savings in transactions costs and additional fiscal
revenues.

Expected socioeconomic benefits from the EMAF . At the appraisal, it was estimated that about 350
                                                         5


firms would benefit from the EMAF.           Most beneficiaries were expected to be firms with no prior
international market sales, and the remainder exporters interested in diversifying their product/market mix
(e.g., the existing subcontractors in the garment sector). They were expected to accrue international market
awareness and know-how, forming the basis for a change in business behavior, which in many cases was
expected to lead to increased international competitiveness and outward-oriented growth.

Therefore, in quantitative terms, a first-order ex-ante economic assessment was prepared (see project files
for pertinent data) based on an EMAF of US$10 million reaching 350 small and medium-scale firms. For
the assessment, a number of simplifying assumptions were made:

  · An average US$28,500 grant (accorded from the EMAF) would increase exports by 2.5 times in the
      first year after the program is implemented, 5 times in second year, and 15 times in the third year.
      Then all benefits would stop (the enterprise may shift to another product, market saturates, etc.).
  · According to experience in other countries, such as Madagascar, Ecuador, and Mauritius, this growth
      path took into account the possibility that half of the beneficiaries of the EMAF might not produce
      significant exports.
  · Benefits were discounted at the 180 day LIBOR rate of 6.0 percent.
  · Value-added distribution within this export stream was based on average observed data for Ecuador,
      with fairly high weight assigned to agro-business and light manufacturing, thus making it applicable,
      as a gross estimate to Tunisia.
  · Taxes on exporting firm were calculated on average fiscal recovery, not nominal rates, which were
      17.5 percent on payroll taxes and 20 percent on income at the time of appraisal.
  · Taxes on export firm employees, also based on recovery rates, were 9.35 percent on salaries and 3
      percent effective based on VAT paid out of salaries on expenses in the economy.

As qualitative gains are translated into incremental exports, this can be expected to yield roughly: (a) higher
value added (mainly wages and profits) in export products; (b) broader export market linkages (more
products exported by more firms); and (c) more linkages to domestic producers as indirect exporters (share
of local raw materials, intermediate, and finished goods in product cost). In the case of a US$10 million
EMAF, covering 350 firms on average, incremental exports was estimated to be US$225 million over a
5-year period, with a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$185.5. The present value of the related value added



                                                      - 24 -

yields about US$29 million as workers salaries, US$38 million to the financial sector (it was assumed that
one-half of export expansion is from expansion investments and the other half from new investments;
therefore banks participate in financing), and US$28 million from profits. The present value of the total
indirect tax recovery on this grant was estimated to be about US$45 million.

The re-estimated calculations using the same methodology, which capture the actual incremental exports
between 2002-2004 and those projected over 2005-07, yield total EMAF-related exports of US$418 million
and a PV of net economic benefits of US$286 million, which is 63 percent above appraisal estimates. The
EMAF component also anticipated a positive social impact, due to the increased business generated and
particularly expanded employment. Based on comparable past export and employment data for Tunisia, it
is estimated that EMAF participants created approximately 4,000 new jobs among micro, small
­and­medium size firm (MSMEs) over 2000-2004, yielding an average grant cost per job of about
US$4,000.


FAMEX I - Estimated Economic Analysis
                       Appraisal
Year                                                         1         2         3        4       5
                                                        2000      2001      2002      2003    2004    2005      2006
Incremental Exports                                                                                   Total
Assumed ratio of additional exports to US$1 of grants        2.5       5.0      15.0
Number of exporters assisted by EMAF                        140       150        60                       350
Investment (matching grant portion), US$ millions          (4.0)     (4.3)     (1.7)                      (10)
Average grant investment per exporter                   (28,571)  (28,667)  (28,333)                  (28,571)


Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 1 (140)        10.0      20.0      60.0                      90.0
Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 2 (150)                  10.7      21.4    64.2              96.3
Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 3 (60)                              4.3     8.6    25.7      38.6
Additional total annual exports                             10.0      30.7      85.7    72.8    25.7
Additional cumulative exports                               10.0      40.7    126.4    199.2   224.9
Net Present Value of Incremental Exports
Investment (matching grant)                                (4.0)     (4.3)     (1.7)                      (10)
Recurrent management operating costs                       (0.7)     (0.7)     (0.6)                       (2)
Costs (investment plus recurrent costs)                    (4.7)     (5.0)     (2.3)                      (12)
                                                           (4.7)     (9.7)    (12.0)


Additional annual exports                                   10.0      30.7      85.7    72.8    25.7
Net annual financial flows                                   5.3      25.7      83.4    72.8    25.7
Net cumulative flows                                         5.3      31.0    114.4    187.2   212.9
NPV of incremental exports (at 6% discount rate)                                              $174.8
NPV of Export Value Added
Total value added generated                                                                   $108.7
Salaries                                                                                       $28.7
Financing costs                                                                                $37.6
Profits                                                                                        $27.6
Taxes
  from exporters                                                                              $41.9
  from employees                                                                               $3.5
 Total taxes                                                                                  $45.4
Total NPV taxes / Total investment & recurrent cost                                            3.79




                                                           - 25 -

 Implementation Completion Report
 Year                                                     1            2       3       4        5           6       7        8
                                                      2000        2001     2002    2003   2004       2005       2006  2007
 Incremental Exports                                                                                 Total
 Re-estimated ratio of additional exports to US$1 of                                                          -
 grants
 Number of exporters assisted by EMAF                       33        152     173    162      80.0                         600
 Investment (matching grant portion), US$ millions         -0.1       -0.5    -1.6   -3.1      -3.3                       (8.5)
 Cumulative matching portion                                         (0.6)   (2.1)  (5.2)     (8.5)                       (16)
                                                                                                                             -
 Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 1                       2.2      6.6   13.0
 Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 2                               15.2   30.4    60.8
 Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 3                                      17.3    34.6        69.2
 Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 4                                              16.2        32.4    64.8
 Exports generated by exporter assisted in yr 5                                                           8.0    16.0     32.0
 Additional total annual exports                              -       2.2     21.8   60.7   111.6      109.6     80.8     32.0
Additional cumulative exports                                 -        2.2    24.0   84.6   196.2      305.8     386.6   418.6
 Net Present Value of Incremental Exports
 Additional total annual exports
 Investment (matching grant) Additional cumulative        (0.1)      (0.5)   (1.6)  (3.1)    (3.3)                        (8.5)
 exports
 Recurrent management operating costs                     (0.2)      (1.1)   (1.1)  (0.7)    (0.2)                        (3.3)
 Costs (investment plus recurrent costs)                  (0.3)      (1.6)   (2.7)  (3.8)    (3.5)                       (11.8)
                                                          (0.3)      (1.9)   (4.5)  (8.3)   (11.8)


 Additional annual exports                                    -       2.2     21.8   60.7   111.6      109.6      80.8    32.0
 Net annual financial flows                               (0.3)        0.6    19.1   56.9   108.1      109.6      80.8    20.2
 Net cumulative flows                                       5.3        5.9    25.0   81.9   190.0      299.6     380.4   400.6
 NPV of incremental exports (at 6% discount rate)                                                                       $285.8
 NPV of Export Value Added
 Total value added generated                                                                $177.8
 Salaries                                                                                    $47.0
 Financing costs                                                                             $61.5
 Profits                                                                                     $45.2
 Taxes                                                                                             Onshore Only

   from exporters                                                                            $68.6     36.79
   from employees                                                                             $5.7       3.07
  Total taxes                                                                                $74.3     $39.9
 Total NPV taxes / Total investment & recurrent cost                                          6.28       3.37




Socioeconomic benefit from the PEFG. The data and calculations are available in project files.                    The
appraisal estimate for PEFG economic benefits were based on the following assumptions:

   ·     As the PEFG agency, commercial banks, and SME exporters learn about the PEFG operation, the
         guarantee coverage fund ratio would gradually increase from 2 in the first year to 4 in the second
         year, 8 in the third year, 10 in the fourth year, and 15 in the fifth year (the international norm of the
         guarantee coverage ratio is up to 15 to 20 for a well-managed guarantee fund). For the reasons
         discussed in the ICR, this assumption did not materialize. The highest fund coverage ratio was 2
         after the change in PEFG management. It was never more than 2 as the issue of "bad-faith" risk
         was not addressed during project implementation, thus providing a big disincentive for the banks to
         use the scheme.

   ·     Average annual turnover of preshipment export finance would be three (i.e., the average
         preshipment export finance maturity is four months). In most cases, this was the case. In a few



                                                            - 26 -

         cases, the turnover was two as the maximum average maturity was increased to 300 after the
         Mid-Term Review.

   ·     For an export order of US$1, the PEFG would cover US$0.81 (90 percent loan share times 90
         percent guarantee share). The ICR calculation of the average coverage ratio is 50% ($0.5 per $1).

   ·     Additional annual exports of US$1 million would generate an additional 100 jobs.

   ·     Social benefits of the PEFG operation are measured by the additionally generated export
         value-added which is assumed to be 50 percent of the additional export value.

   ·     Social costs of the PEFG operation are composed of:
                 i.    net defaults (i.e., gross defaults minus recoveries);
                 ii. administrative costs;
                 iii. opportunity cost of the fund.

   ·     Net default rate would decline from 4 percent in the first year to 3 percent in the second year, 2
         percent in the third year, 1.5 percent in the fourth year, and 1 percent in the fifth year as a result of
         technical assistance provided to SME exporters, these exporters' learning-by-exporting, and
         improved collection of defaulted exporters' unpaid debt. At the time of the ICR, the default rate
         was zero. However, after the first year (following the management change), the default rate reached
         20 percent and gradually declined due to slow business development and increasingly prudent
         COTUNACE policy.

   ·     PEFG administrative costs would be 2 percent of the guarantee outstanding, in the initial phase, and
         decline thereafter.

   Given the appraisal assumptions, it was estimated that US$1 fund can cover US$3.7 on annual exports,
   if the fund-PEFG coverage ratio was 1: ( {1/(0.9)(0.9)}{3} = 3.7). Under the assumption that when the
   PEFG scheme was fully implemented under good management, the fund - PEFG coverage ratio was
   estimated to be 15. Therefore, US$1 fund could cover US$55.5 in annual exports ({3.7}{15}) = 55.5 ).
   As such, a US$5 million PEFG fund could potentially cover US$280 million annual exports after five
   years. Alternatively, it was estimated that if the average import contents of the Tunisian garment
   exports were 60 percent of the export values and the PEFG coverage were limited to the import finance
   for export production, about US$463 million garment exports per year can be transformed from
   international subcontract-based trade to export L/C and associated import L/C-based trade, based on a
   US$5 million PEFG fund. The NPV of the benefits at 6 percent discount rate would then amount to
   US$277 million for the first 5 years of the program. The actual results (US$35 million of additional
   exports) were far lower than these estimates (that were revised by almost half after the Mid-Term
   Review) because several key assumptions were not realized for the reasons detailed in the ICR.


5
 The data and calculations are available in project files




                                                             - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/16/1998                 3    TASK MANAGER (1); PSD            S               S
                                             SPEC. (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              6/1/1998                  8    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             EXPORT DEV (1); MATCHING
                                             GRANTS (2); TRADE
                                             FACILITATION(1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              9/7/1998                  9    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             EXPORT DEV (1); MATCHING
                                             GRANTS (2); TRADE
                                             FACILITATION(1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/17/1998              11     TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             EXPORT DEV (1);
                                             MATCHING GRANTS (2);
                                             TRADE
                                             FACILITATION(1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2)
              2/18/1999                 3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             MATCHING GRANTS (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              11/28/1999                2    TEAM LEADER/EXPORT DEV           S               S
                                             (1); MATCHING GRANTS (1)
              06/19/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS              S
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR DEV. (1)
              11/02/2000                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              03/02/2001                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              07/26/2002                2    PSD SPEC./TTL (1); TRADE         S               S
                                             FACILITATION (1)
              12/27/2002                4    PSD SPECIALIST/TTL (1);          S               S
                                             MATCHING GRANTS (1);
                                             E-GOVERNMENT (1);
                                             CUSTOMS (1)
              05/15/2003                4    PSD SPECIALIST/TTL (1);          S               S



                                              - 28 -

                                           TRADE FACILITATION (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                           INSURANCE GUARANTEES
                                           (1)
               10/08/2003              2   PSD SPECIALIST/TTL (1);               S    S
                                           TRADE FACILITATION (1)
               06/04/2004              1   PSD SPECIALIST/TTL (1)                S    S


 ICR
               11/29/2004             4     PSD SPECIALIST/TTL (1);              S    S
                                            CUSTOMS (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            SR. PROGRAM ASST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                313 (incl. iden./prep.)
  Supervision                                                             447
  ICR                                                                      25
  Total                                                                   785




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 18778-TUN, April 30, 1999

Project supervision files.




                                              - 32 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results




                                      - 33 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                            Outcome of the Tunisia Export Development Project
         Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILI) Stakeholder Workshop

                              December 5, 2004, Maison de l'Exportateur, Tunis




                            Presentation of the results of beneficiary surveys of the EDP I

                                              Date -- Location -- Time

                                    6/12/04 -- Maison de l'Exportateur -- 9h-12h



              List of Participants

 Marouane El Abbassi                               Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts

 Hamid R. Alavi                                    World Bank (Team leader)

 James C. Hanna                                    World Bank

 Denis Chemillier-Gendreau                         World Bank consultant

 Steve W. Wan Yan Lun                              World Bank

 Mustapha Mezghani                                 World Bank consultant

 List of other participants (available from
 CEPEX)


The ILI stakeholder workshop was attended by the implementing agencies (CEPEX, COTUNACE,
Tunisian Customs, Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Commerce), staff from Ministry of Transport
and Communication, the Port Authority, banks, export consultants, private sector exporters and trade
logistics providers, the European Commission, the African Development Bank.                  The session was
co-moderated by Hamid Alavi (Task Team Leader) and Marouane Abassi (Advisor to the Minister of
Commerce and the EDP II Project Manager).

The workshop held on December 5, 2004, was attended by a large number of representatives from the
government and civil society, including businesses as well as the donor community. A list of participants is
available at CEPEX.

The Bank and counterpart team also had the opportunity to discuss the EDP's performance results with a
large number of stakeholders during the EDP II project launch in October 2004. A DVD on the interviews
with a number of EMAF beneficiaries about the schemes' relevance and results is available upon request
from our files.




                                                         - 34 -

The workshop begun with a presentation by the Bank team of the results of beneficiary surveys and focus
group discussions for individual components. In the case of EMAF, the results of impact assessments at
several implementation stages over 2002-2004 were also presented . These assessments were conducted by
                                                                     7


independent specialist advisors to FAMEX, involving a representative sample of over 300 businesses,
almost half of total beneficiaries. The workshop was then focused around questions that were raised by the
team (see below). The participants commented on the EDP achievements and discussed ideas to improve
the performance in areas were the results could be improved. The general discussion pointed out that the
results have been satisfactory and have had significant institutional development impact, creating
market-based incentives and institutions. Key messages from the workshop are outlined below.

1.      Export Market Access Fund

1.1.    Overall outcome and relevance

It was pointed out by the participants that the EMAF program has transformed traditional public-sector led
export promotion in Tunisia (e.g., FOPRODEX). For the first time in Tunisia, the private sector is paying
for export services and a core of local consultants has been developed around the EMAF program, which
can make these market initiatives sustainable.

Assistance focused on the process of export development as well as practical solutions to reach potential
buyers and supply chain intermediaries.

1.2.    Management efficiency and responsiveness

The EMAF management team was applauded for its efficiency and responsiveness in proactively assisting
clients.  Through various seminars and twining arrangement with foreign and local experts, the
management team facilitated knowledge transfer about foreign markets and requirements, as well as
know-how for potential exporters about the process of exporting.

1.3.    Sustainability

As to the question about the sustainability of the scheme's outcome, participants pointed out that they have
witnessed a sharp improvement (through EMAF) of export service delivery compared to previous methods
(e.g., FOPRODEX) which the participants did not find very effective in addressing the real needs to enter
export markets. They also noted another three key reasons. First, the emergence of a core of export
consultants that can assist firms conclude sales in foreign markets. The willingness of enterprises to pay
for export services. Third, the export capacity created at the enterprise level (e.g., through the development
of export cells).

1.4.    Recommendations for the future

Accompany more enterprises in developing export capacity and practical knowledge of products and
markets. Assist enterprises in setting up export units in their companies.

Help export consulting sector to further develop their practical expertise with respect to specific markets
and products.




                                                    - 35 -

2.       Preshipment Export Finance Guarantees

2.1.     Overall outcome and relevance

Banks showed a very heterogeneous attitude towards the PEFG. Some of them said they initially made an
extensive use of it and then stopped, others never really started. A large number of banks indicated however
that there is a strong potential for PEFG. They indicated their lack of satisfaction about the treatment of
default cases due to bad faith. In their view, as long as this issue is not explicitly resolved by the Comité
d'agrément des risques, they will not extensively use the scheme.

2.2.     Management efficiency and responsiveness

There was a certain concern about management weaknesses, although some participating enterprises were
positive about PEFG management performance and their responsiveness to the clients.

2.3.     Recommendations for the future

·        Include the export consultants in the promotion activities of PEFG and coordinate with them.
·        Enhance awareness programs among the banks and their branches in Tunisia
·        Resolve the issue of "bad-faith" risk
·        Clarify to potential clients the difference between PEFG and export credit insurance.

3.       Trade Facilitation

The beneficiaries and logistics providers indicated strong satisfaction with the achievements of the project
concerning trade facilitation. They suggested however that the counterparts address the following technical
issues that are likely to further facilitate trade transactions:

(a)      The Customs' response time to TTN transactions needs to be reduced, especially concerning the
         customs declarations; otherwise, the benefits of TTN will be limited.
(b)      Fee payments delays on the TTN should be accelerated.
(c)      Customs should accept on-line invoice documents (scanned) as opposed to paper-based documents
         that need to be submitted in person to the Customs.
(d)      Cooperation among parties involved in trade clearance processes should be improved.
(e)      Reduce further the need to submit certain trade documents to different agencies on paper, despite
the fact that they are all available on TTN network.
(f)      Encourage trade professionals and customs brokers to use TTN rather than SINDA to increase the
         full benefits of the TTN network to reach the trading community.
(g)      Integrate the technical control procedures into the TTN system.
(h)      TTN should develop the capacity to process and trace transactions.

7
 Midterm Review (March 2002); Balance of FAMEX I and orientation of FAMEX II (September 2003); FAMEX qualitative evaluation (end-2003);

GEOMAR Report (April 2004); Sigma Conseil Survey (September 2004); FAMEX Impact Study, ISTIS (April 2004).




                                                               - 36 -

Additional Annex 10. Counterpart Evaluation Report

REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
MINISTERE DU COOMMERCE
ET DE L'ARTISANAT
           --°--
        DGCEC
                                      Evaluation du Programme de
                                    Développement des Exportations

        Emprunteur / agences d'exécution :
        La répartition initiale des agences d'exécution a connu, en cours d'exécution, quelques
modifications qui concernent essentiellement l'agence d'exécution de la Composante C « Facilitation du
Commerce ». en effet, le Ministère du Commerce, a été remplacé par le Ministère des Finances puisque,
suite à la décision de rattacher Tunisie-tradenet au Ministère des Finances, tous les intervenants de cette
composante sont devenus sous la tutelle du Ministères des Finances, ce qui a nécessite la modification de
l'Accord de PRET dans ce sens.

        Les agences d'exécution sont les suivants :
        - Composante A : FAMEX/CEPEX
        - Composante B : Compagne Tunisienne de l'Assurance du Commerce Extérieur
        - Composante C : Ministère des Finances

        L'évaluation des résultats du projet par les agences d'exécution a fait ressortir les données
suivantes :

        * Composante A : FAMEX :

        Le programme FAMEX est globalement positif et a été apprécié par ses bénéficiaires à savoir les
entreprises et les conseillers en exportation.

        Le FAMEX a, dans le cadre de sa conception et de sa gestion, enregistré des points forts qui
concernent :
1.      La conception globale du programme avec notamment la mise en place d'un compte spécial à la
        Banque Centrale de Tunisie et une expérience de gestion par des experts du secteur privé tout en
        étant dans un organisme public.
2.      Un bon suivi de la part de l'équipe de la Banque Mondiale constituée de responsables constructifs
        et proactifs qui a réalisé des missions régulières en Tunisie .
3.      Des ressources financières disponibles et suffisantes qui ont permis de conduire le programme à
son terme dans de bonnes conditions.

        * Composante B : FGFAE :

      - Les performances du fonds :
      les valeurs des indicateurs de performance du fonds de garantie de financement à l'exportation avant
expédition ont été révisées lors de l'évaluation à mi-parcours des performances d'exécution du programme.
Cet examen a montré que les objectifs fixés se basaient sur des expériences internationales             qui
nécessitaient une certaine adaptation préalable au contexte national tunisien.



                                                    - 37 -

      - Les synergies entre le FGFAE et la FAMEX :
      la synergie avec la composante FAMEX devrait être étudiée dans les deux sens ; en effet la
COTUNACE est membre du Comité de Direction du FAMEX et le Famex est aussi membre du Comité
d'Agrément des risques du FGEAE. Si bon nombre de clients du Famex n'ont pas utilisé le fonds c'est que
leurs besoins dépassaient le cadre d'intervention du FGFAE.

         * Composante C : Facilitation du Commerce :
         - Sous- composante Liasse-unique :
      Le projet Liasse Unique vise à conférer plus de compétitivité à l'économie nationale à travers la
simplification des procédures du commerce extérieur, d'une part, et la réduction des délais de transit des
marchandises par les Ports, d'autre part. En effet, le projet consiste à connecter tous les intervenants
institutionnels au serveur « Liasse Unique » pour leur permettre de s'échanger les informations pour
l'automatisation du traitement des dossiers des entreprises et d'offrir des services en ligne à travers un
Guichet Unique Virtuel.

      La simplification des procédures du commerce extérieur est en soit un programme multi-sectoriel qui
implique plusieurs acteurs, outre Tunisie Tradenet en tant que gestionnaire de la plate-forme de la Liasse
Unique, et couvre plusieurs volets : technique, organisationnel et réglementaire. A ce titre, le système
Liasse Unique est constitué en effet d'un ensemble de composantes :

      - La plate forme TradeNet
      - Les systèmes d'informations des différents partenaires : Douanes, Ministères , Banques, OMMP
      - Les systèmes d'informations des entreprises
      - Le réseau de télécommunication.

      Jusqu'en décembre 2003, le réseau n'a pas enregistré les résultats escomptés. Le nombre d'abonnés
est resté faible ( 100 par rapport à 1200 ciblés : 200 commissionnaires en douanes et 1000 entreprises qui
font plus de 100 opérations par an) . Le nombre de dossiers traités n'a été que de 120 000 environ durant
20 mois alors que 1500 000 formalités sont accomplies annuellement.

      Cette situation, outre la réticence au changement, s'explique par :
      - Une réactivité insuffisante de la part des services sollicités : délais de réponse jugés trop longs par
         les premiers abonnés qui de ce fait n'ont pas été réguliers dans l'utilisation du service malgré la
         gratuité affichée.
      - La coexistence du mode papier et du mode électronique qui s'ajoute à la réticence au changement
des différents acteurs

      A partir de janvier 2004, l'activité a commencé à enregistrer un élan significatif grâce à la circulaire
de la Banque Centrale de Tunisie qui invite les banques à utiliser systématiquement le réseau TTN pour la
domiciliation des titres de commerce extérieur. Ainsi,le nombre de clients est passé de 100 à 400 en deux
mois et Presque de 1000 titres de commerce extérieur transitent quotidiennement par TTN.

      Ce niveau d'activité permet d'affirmer que la plate-forme est, du point de vue applicatif, à même
d'assurer le traitement de 100% des transactions du commerce extérieur.

      Du point de vue capacité des équipements, TTN est en train de renforcer la plate forme centrale par
des capacités de traitement supplémentaires et de mettre en place un site de back-up qui servira de secours
en cas de panne momentanée du site principal.




                                                    - 38 -

      En outre, des actions de sensibilisation, de formation et d'assistance technique sont menées par le
Ministère des Finances et TTN de manière continue pour accompagner l'adhésion des entreprises et des
acteurs institutionnels. Dans ce cadre il y a lieu de signaler les principales activités suivantes :

      - Un Comité de Pilotage présidé par le Secrétaire Général du Ministère des Finances se réunit chaque
samedi depuis mars 2002.
      - Une réunion hebdomadaire se tient à l'Association Professionnelle des Banques.
      - Une réunion mensuelle se tient au le Ministère de la santé.
      - Des réunions périodiques sont organisées avec les différents départements concernés.
      - Des séminaires ont été organisés avec les différents organismes professionnels du secteur du
transport.

      - Sous-composante Douanes :
      1- Projet du renouvellement SINDA : le projet a été achevé. Le système informatique est actuellement
plus performant pour le traitement automatisé des déclarations et l'échange d'informations entre tous les
points d'entrée en douanes.

      Le reliquat du projet a été réaffecté pour l'acquisition de 350 PC mais vu l'échéance de la clôture du
projet , l'appel d'offres a été annulé.

      2- Acquisition des scanners : projet achevé et payé. Les effets positifs se traduisent par un contrôle
des marchandises efficace et rapide.

      3- Construction du centre de formation : construction achevée . le projet sera fonctionnel en cours de
2005 . La partie concernant l'acquisition des meubles a été annulée vu l'échéance de la clôture du projet.

      4- Centre de recherches et de documentation douanière: l'acquisition du matériel d'imprimerie a été
achevée. Un projet complémentaire a été annulé à cause de l'échéance de la clôture du projet.
.
      5- Laboratoire d'analyse : l'acquisition du matériel de laboratoire a été achevée. Concernant
l'aménagement de laboratoire, l'approbation du rapport des dépouillements techniques et financiers de
l'aménagement et de l'extension de laboratoire a été accordée par la commission départementale des
marchés le 22 septembre 2004. Le projet a été annulé.

      Autres partenaires (Secteur privé) :

      De part les objectifs du Programme du Développement des Exportations, le secteur privé est impliqué
dés le départ dans le projet.

      Ainsi, les associations professionnelles telle que l'Union Tunisienne d'Industrie du Commerce et de
l'Artisanat (UTICA) est Membre dans les différents comités qui étudient les demandes des entreprises pour
bénéficier du projet à savoir le Comité de Direction du FAMEX (CDF) pour la Composante A (FAMEX)
et le Comité d'Agrément des Risques (CAR), pour la Composante B (FGFAE). D'autre part, l'UTICA est
aussi membre du Comité de Pilotage du PDE qui est présidé par Monsieur le Ministre du Commerce.

      La contribution du secteur privé dans le suivi d'exécution a permis d'augmenter l'adhésion des
entreprises tunisiennes au projet. D'autant plus que le secteur privé pour la Composante A « FAMEX » est
un co-financier puisque le FAMEX est un fonds à coût-partagé, ce qui constitue une expérience pilote en
Tunisie.


                                                      - 39 -

- 40 -

