Report No. PID7030
Project Name                     Tunisia-Export Development Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           PSD
Project ID                       TNPE55814
Borrower                         Republic of Tunisia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Commerce
PID Date                         October 30, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           November 1998
Project Board Date               March 30, 1999
Background
Tunisia's export performance has been commendable in recent years, but
traditional exports are facing severe competition in a changing global
environment : manufactured exports growth rate in real terms has declined from
12.8t p.a. during 1987-91 to 4.0w p.a. during 1992-97.    In addition, Tunisia's
share in certain key export products has fallen in traditional export markets
relative to that of new competitors. For example, in Men's and boy's
clothing, Tunisia's share in the European Union (EU) imports has increased
from 1.0t to 1.4t during 1988-97, while the same share for China has increased
from 3.8w to 11.7t during the same period.
Like many other countries in the 1970s and 1980s, Tunisia promoted its private
sector by protecting it from internal and external competition, and by
granting it tax and credit privileges. At the same time, it created the
offshore sector to counter the anti-export bias of a protected domestic
economy, that fueled the strong export performance during that period.     The
offshore sector accounts for about 80 percent of merchandise exports, but
despite preferential access to the EU market, value added and profitability
have been falling in the offshore sector. This has in part been due to the
fact that Tunisian export manufacturers are increasingly being undercut by
low-cost competitors in Asia and the Mediterranean.
While this strategy has succeeded in facilitating Tunisia's entry into export
markets, one consequence has been that the domestic manufacturing sector has
not had the stimulus to competitiveness that normally results from external
trade and competition, as the off-shore sector has few linkages to (except
semi-skilled labor and some services), and takes virtually no tradable inputs
from the domestic economy.    Despite export incentives for partial and
indirect exporters comparable to those for offshore firms, few onshore firms
have entered into export market.
There are two key concerns: (a) the success of the offshore sector exports is
being undermined by intense competition from other emerging economies in
Tunisia's traditional markets; and (b) the onshore sector has not developed
export production and marketing capabilities, and will soon be exposed to
severe competition from imports due to the free trade agreement (FTA) with the
European Union (EU).



Project Objectives
The major development objective is to enhance the ability of Tunisian private
exporters, especially in the onshore sector, to integrate into the global
economy. The proposed project would foster export competitiveness of Tunisian
firms by mitigating some of the disadvantages they encounter relative to their
foreign competitors (for example, export-related transactions costs and export
financing constraints for small and medium exporters).
Project Description
The main components of the proposed project include: (a) improving access to
export markets; (b) increasing access to preshipment export finance,
especially for SMEs and first-time exporters; and (c) facilitating trade by
reducing the number of import and export-related procedures and strengthening
electronic commerce. The Bank assistance under the project would consist of
financial and technical assistance to strengthen/develop enterprise support
institutions, develop modern preshipment export finance guarantee mechanisms,
and streamline trade procedures to expand exports. This assistance would be
provided with a focus on promoting public-private partnership.
Export Market Access Component. This component would possibly include (to be
confirmed following the appraisal) a matching grant fund (Export Market Access
Fund - EMAF) to cover on a temporary basis up to 50- of the cost of consultant
services required to enable enterprises, especially small and medium
enterprises in the onshore sector, to enter export markets. The EMAF would
offer its services solely in response to private sector demand on a non-
discriminatory and a first-come-first-served basis. The assistance would be
provided once an export plan is developed by the enterprise and the
entrepreneur has committed its own funds to implement it.     The component also
includes: (a) support for regulatory, procedural and institutional reforms to
encourage the development of international trading companies; (b) support for
a vendor development program to actively court vendor development managers,
professional buyers and buying chains, and design companies; and (c)
assistance to undertake design and viability study of trade service center to
house commercial information facilities, advisory services, conferences, one-
stop representation of trade support services, Centre de Promotion des
Exportations (CEPEX) and international traders.
Preshipment Export Finance Component. The project would support a Preshipment
Export Finance Guarantee Facility (PEFG) whose purpose is to encourage
financial institutions, through risk reduction, to lend (working capital
finance) to emerging exporters holding confirmed overseas letters of credit or
specified buyers' non-payment risk insurance for confirmed orders. The
objective of the Export Finance Guarantee is to cover a portion of emerging
exporters' non-performance risk in order to overcome a supply rigidity whereby
the perceived risk of these exporters is greater than the actual risk.
Eligible sub-loans financed by PEFG Facility would be guaranteed for 80- of
the outstanding principal amount.
Trade Facilitation Component. The project would provide support for
investments and technical assistance required to reduce the number of
procedures involved in trading activity with special emphasis on customs
procedures and port and cargo handling. For this purpose a coordinating body
("TunisFaC" -- Tunisie Facilitation de Commerce) would be established to
- 2-



implement a trade facilitation action plan. Existing projects such as the
trade professional training study by UNCTAD, container storage survey by STAM,
liasse unique and EDI message design/document redesign, Customs' SINDA
redesign, plans for a training institute and plans for changes in container
handling, in terms of operations, will all be integrated into this plan.
Project Benefits
The proposed project would assist private Tunisian exporters and non-exporters
(specially SMEs and first-time exporters) through a package of micro-level
interventions designed to put Tunisian exporters on equal footing with their
international competitors. It would build on the GoT's trade reforms,
initiated in the context of the Association Agreement with the EU. The
interventions would be simple and quickly implementable, and the benefits
would be measured in accordance with the key performance indicators for the
project's development objectives and outputs.
Export market access. Creating conditions for development of international
trading companies and design and procurement offices, as well as establishing
one or more trade service centers would help to assemble major buyers of
Tunisian exports and to provide them with all the necessary information to
conclude a purchase contract. As far as the proposed Export Market Access
Fund (EMAF) is concerned, a review conducted by the OECD on a similar scheme
in Britain found that about half of the firms from a sample of 420 firms that
received cost-sharing grants over a 3-year period, were later able to use
consultants at market prices, and 82t had begun implementing consultants'
recommendations. Information from a sample of 36 matching grant supported
activities in Indonesia shows that the first year of implementation achieved
additional exports of US$ 36 for every US$1 of grant received.
Export finance. The export guarantee scheme proposed under the project would
help reduce credit risks of trade financing for small and first-time
exporters, and would therefore enhance the willingness of the banking sector
to expand the supply of trade finance.
Trade facilitation. Trade simplification mechanisms proposed under the
project would make trade-related transactions more efficient. Improving the
information exchange between cargo handling and clearance activities (for
example, electronic pre-clearance of imports and exports, pre-scheduling of
transport, containers, ports and shipping facilitates) would help to simplify
and streamline cargo clearance process, and therefore reduce the time taken in
moving goods through ports and handling facilities.
Project Implementation
The overall responsibility for project implementation would be delegated to a
"Project Coordination Unit" (PCU) within the Ministry of Commerce. The PCU
would be in charge of coordinating the work of executing agencies for each of
the project components, in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan,
and with policies, criteria and methodologies specified in a Manual of
Policies and Procedures, to be prepared and agreed upon during appraisal. The
PIU would be headed by an experienced project coordinator and have
administrative structures, processes, and staffing conducive to an efficient
administration of the project.    The organizational structure, processes,
staffing and budgetary requirements for the PIU would be defined and agreed
-3 -



upon prior to negotiations.
Project Cost and Financing
Total project costs are tentatively estimated at $ 44 million, with a Bank
loan currently estimated at $31 million. The possibility of cofinancing for
the project will be investigated from different sources (EU, EIB, bilateral
donors) in the form of grants and/or loans.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The project's basic rationale is derived from cross-country experience showing
that the simultaneous actions to facilitate market access to SME and potential
exporters, reduce the barriers to access to working capital (preshipment)
finance by SME and new exporters, and reduce and facilitate steps and
procedures involved in trade transactions, are important to ensure success in
export development.
International experience has suggested that the effects of export development
policies can be masked by the large one-time costs required to enter export
markets - costs involved in finding information on export markets, upgrading
product design and quality, adapting packaging and labeling to export markets,
and establishing marketing channels. On the other hand, it is also found that
once these market entry costs are met, such investments encourage a
sustainable commitment to export markets by exporters as long as operating
costs are covered. The proposed project, by addressing these market entry
costs, would contribute to sustainable export development.
Preshipment export finance. Many emerging economies have offered preshipment
export finance guarantee (PEFG) schemes, to fill a gap in financial sector
which would not willingly take SME's export manufacturing non-performance
risks without PEFG schemes. PEFG schemes are even common in developed
economies, such as the United States EXIM bank. However, like any other
development policy instrument, the success or failure of a PEFG scheme has
depended on its management efficiency. The lessons from successful cases
(e.g., Korea, Taiwan, Mauritius) will be used in the design of the PEFG scheme
under the project. The early lessons in some other economies, including
Zimbabwe and South Africa, in which the Bank has recently helped put in place
PEFG schemes, are also used in the design of this component of the project.
Poverty Category
Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
Consistent with the requirements of OD 4.01, the project is proposed to be
classified in environmental screening category "C". The project is not
expected to have adverse environmental impacts. In addition, the environment
component of an on-going Bank project (Private Industry Support Upgrading
Project --PISUP) is expected to ensure that Tunisian exports meet the ISO-
14000 environmental standards. The progress under this component is
satisfactory. The capacity of the existing and new technical centers
developed under that project is expected to be available for the beneficiaries
of the Export development Project to ensure compliance to environmental
- 4 -



product standards in export markets.
Project Risks
Policy issues. The three key policy issues outlined in the export strategy
note (in project files) should be addressed in parallel to the project: (a)
reducing effective protection (resulting from the schedule of tariff
reductions under the Association Agreement with the EU); (b) foreign
investment regulations in the onshore sector; and (c) policies and measures
complementary to trade liberalization.
Institutional set up. Given the number of agencies and activities involved in
the project, and the limited previous involvement in Bank projects by the
Ministry of Commerce, there is a risk that institutional set up may become
complicated and counter-productive.
Program Objective Categories
The proposed project, by enhancing the overall competitiveness of private
industrial enterprises, directly addresses a wide array of private industry
development issues.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 13, 1998.
1 / More than sixty percent of manufactured exports are textiles and
garments, half of which are by offshore enterprises through
subcontracting activities and are marketed overseas by foreign
investors in offshore companies or foreign buyers.
2 /   The recent currency depreciation and collapse of domestic demand
in south east Asia is also adding to the competitive pressure in
key export markets.
3 /   Ninety percent of inputs of the offshore sector are sourced outside
Tunisia (mainly through subcontracting).
- 5 -



