Page  1
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
June 3, 1999
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Re:
Loan No. 4475 TUN
(Export Development Project)
Procurement Arrangements: International Competitive 
   Bidding and National Competitive Bidding
Section 3.07 and Parts B and C.1 of Section I of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement                                  
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
We refer to Section 3.07 and Parts B and C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 of the 
Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of Tunisia (the Borrower) 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), in respect 
of the above-captioned Loan, and to the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines).
For the purposes of the foregoing provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower 
hereby confirms that the following points will be taken into account:
A. 
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
1.
Origin of Materials.  Bidders will be encouraged to give priority to the 
use of available local goods, materials and products.
2.
Currency.  The foreign currency portion of the bid price shall be 
expressed in the currency or currencies of payment of the contract price.
B.
International Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
1.
Bid Opening.  Opening of bids shall take place in public, in the presence 
of bidders wishing to attend.
2.
Evaluation Criteria.  Bid evaluation criteria will be stated in the 
bidding documents.  No preference will be granted on the basis of: (a) national origin 
of the bidder, except for ICB, as provided in paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines, and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto; (b) the legal nature of 
the bidder; or  (c) financial facilities offered by a bidder such as export credit or 
suppliers credit.
3.
Public Sector Companies.  Any benefit granted to the Borrower's public 
sector companies over private sector companies or foreign companies in terms of 
guarantees shall be quantified, when evaluating competing bids, and added to the bid 
price for the purpose of comparison of bids.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Page  2
By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub
Authorized Representative
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie                 
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
