Page  1
August 29, 2001
H.E. Fathi Merdassi
Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment
Ministry of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis Belvédère
 Tunisia
Re:
Export Development Project
(Loan No. 4475- TUN) - Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") dated June 3, 1999 between 
the Republic of Tunisia ("the Borrower") and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the "Bank") and the Project Agreement of even date between the 
Compagnie Tunisienne pour l’Assurance du Commerce Extérieur (the "COTUNACE") and the 
Bank, relating to the Export Development Project (the "Project"). We also refer to 
your correspondence dated August 4, 2001 (Fax No. 2188/3-2-1) requesting an amendment 
to the Loan Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration, has acceded 
to your request to allow the Special Account earmarked for COTUNACE to be used to 
finance goods, training and consultants’ services under Part B of the Project.  
Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Schedule 6 (Special Accounts), paragraph (1) (a) is amended and restated in its 
entirety to read as follows: 
"(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means: (i) in respect of the CEPEX 
Special Account, Categories (1), (4) (a) and (5) (a); (ii) in respect of the 
COTUNACE Special Account, Categories (2), (4) (b) and (5) (b); and (iii) in 
respect of the Borrower Special Account, Categories (3), (4) (c) and (5) (c)."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by duly signing and dating the 
confirmation of the enclosed copy of this Amendment Letter and returning it to the 
Bank. A signed duplicate original of this Amendment Letter is enclosed herewith for 
the Borrower’s official records. This Amendment Letter shall become effective as of 
the date of its countersignature.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Director 
Maghreb Countries 
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Fathy Merdassi
Authorized Representative
Date:
September 22, 2001
Page  2
