Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4475-TUN
Project Agreement
(Export Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRE DE PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS
Dated June 3, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4475-TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”) and CENTRE DE PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS (the “CEPEX”).
WHEREAS (A) By the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Tunisia (the “Borrower”) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to Thirty Five Million Dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CEPEX agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) By a CEPEX grant agreement (the “CEPEX Grant Agreement”) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and CEPEX, part of the proceeds of the loan provided 
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to CEPEX for purposes of carrying 
out Part A of the Project; and
WHEREAS (C) CEPEX, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CEPEX declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part 
A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial, technical assistance and trade practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) For purposes of Part A of the Project, CEPEX shall enter into 
the CEPEX Grant Agreement with MOF, acting on behalf of the Borrower,  providing for 
the transfer to CEPEX, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (4) (a) and (5) (a), under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b)
CEPEX shall exercise its rights and obligations under the CEPEX Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of CEPEX and the Bank, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and achieve the objectives of the Project, and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CEPEX shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive CEPEX Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. CEPEX shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress achieved in carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the CEPEX Grant Agreement, and 
such other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project.
Section 2.04. CEPEX shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project, or the performance by CEPEX of its obligations under this Agreement or under 
the CEPEX Grant Agreement.
Section 2.05. Responsibility for general policy guidance and overall 
coordination of the carrying out of the Project shall be vested in the Steering 
Committee, to be maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the Project 
with membership and terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.06. Responsibility for overall supervision and monitoring of the 
carrying out of the Project shall be vested in the PCMU, to be maintained by the 
Borrower under terms of reference and work programs satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.07. Not later than June 30, 1999, CEPEX shall appoint a committee (the 
EMAF Steering Committee), with representation and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, responsible for decisions pertaining to supporting the on-going operations, 
supervising the execution, and coordinating the administration of the EMAF.
Section 2.08. (a) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, CEPEX shall provide 
Matching Grants to Beneficiaries under the EMAF in accordance with the procedures and 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the EMAF Operations Manual.
(b)
CEPEX shall exercise its rights in relation to each Matching Grant in 
such manner as to:  (i) protect the interests of the Borrower and of the Bank; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of 
the Loan and the objectives of the Project.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of this Agreement or those of the 
EMAF Operations Manual, the activities to be carried out by CEPEX under Part A of the 
Project pursuant to the EMAF shall meet the following principal eligibility criteria:
(i)
the activity shall contribute directly to the diversification of 
export 
products or markets or to increasing value added;
Page  3
(ii)
the activity shall be complementary to other Project activities;
(iii)
the activity shall focus on the development of sustainable 
capacity and 
expertise for supporting export production and/or 
marketing, especially in the 
private sector or in the area of 
requiring public/private cooperation;
(iv)
the activity shall not be intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or 
for luxury consumption purposes, and shall not be included 
in the following 
SITC groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower and 
CEPEX:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(d)
In respect of each activity to be carried out under Part A of the Project 
pursuant to the EMAF, CEPEX shall submit to the Bank for its prior approval all 
details in respect of the eligibility criteria to be met as set out in  the EMAF 
Operations Manual and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request from 
time to time.
Section 2.09. CEPEX shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Page  4
Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part 
A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.10. CEPEX shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CEPEX
Section 3.01. CEPEX shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial, technical assistance and 
trade practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CEPEX shall at all times administer and operate the EMAF in 
accordance with the EMAF Operations Manual, and otherwise in accordance with sound 
administrative, economic, financial and technical assistance and trade practices, and 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. CEPEX shall not, without the prior 
written agreement of the Bank, amend or otherwise alter the EMAF Operations Manual or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. CEPEX shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CEPEX shall establish and thereafter at all times maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
(b)
CEPEX shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements referred to in 
Paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and a report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CEPEX 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CEPEX thereof.
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CEPEX:
28 Rue Gandhi
1001 Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
Page  6
CENTRE DE PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS
By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub 
Authorized Representative 
