Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4475-TUN
Loan Agreement
(Export Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 3, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4475-TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the “Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the “Bank”).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the “Project”), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Centre de Promotion 
des Exportations (the “CEPEX”) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CEPEX part of the proceeds of the Loan 
as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Compagnie 
Tunisienne pour l’Assurance du Commerce Exterieur (the “COTUNACE”) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
COTUNACE part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (D) Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, through 
its Customs Authority (the “CA”), Ministry of Commerce (the “MOC”) and Ports Authority 
(the “PA”), as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS (E) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, and in the project agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
CEPEX (the “CEPEX Project Agreement”) and in the project agreement of even date 
Page  2
herewith between the Bank and COTUNACE (the “COTUNACE Project Agreement”).
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the “General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means, individually, a small or medium commercial or 
manufacturing direct or indirect exporting enterprise, including a first time direct 
or indirect exporter, established and operating within the Borrower’s territory, 
eligible to receive a Matching Grant from CEPEX under the EMAF in accordance with the 
eligibility and selection criteria set forth in the EMAF Operations Manual, and the 
term “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, more than one Beneficiary;
(b)
“Category” means, individually, a category of items set forth in the 
table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the term “Categories” means, 
collectively, more than one Category;
(c)
“CAR” means the Borrower’s PEFGF Risk Approval Committee (Comite 
d’Agrement des Risques) to be appointed by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(d)
“CA” means the Borrower’s National Customs Authority, and such term 
includes any successor thereto;
(e)
“CEPEX” means the Borrower’s Center for Export Promotion (Centre de 
Promotion des Exportations), an industrial and commercial public enterprise, 
established and operating under the Borrower’s rules and regulations pursuant to the 
CEPEX Charter, and such term includes any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank;
(f)
“CEPEX Charter” means the founding charter, articles of incorporation and 
by-laws, or other similar instrument of CEPEX, as amended up to the date of this 
Agreement, issued pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 73-20 dated April 14, 1973, as 
may be amended from time to time;
(g)
“CEPEX Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and CEPEX pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement and Section 2.02 
(a) of the CEPEX Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CEPEX Grant 
Agreement;
(h)
“CEPEX Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and CEPEX 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CEPEX Project Agreement;
(i)
“CEPEX Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i) of, and Schedule 6 to, this Agreement;
(j)
“COTUNACE” means the Borrower’s Tunisian Company for Foreign Trade 
Insurance (Compagnie Tunisienne pour l’Assurance du Commerce Exterieur), a public 
enterprise, established and operating under the Borrower’s rules and regulations 
pursuant to the COTUNACE Charter, and such term includes any successor thereto 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(k)
“COTUNACE Charter” means the founding charter, articles of incorporation 
and by-laws or other similar instrument of COTUNACE, as amended up to the date of this 
Page  3
Agreement, registered in the commercial registry Borrower under No. 2894 on September 
8, 1984;
(l)
“COTUNACE Grant and Management Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and COTUNACE pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement and Section 2.02 (a) of the COTUNACE Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the COTUNACE Grant and Management Agreement;
(m)
“COTUNACE Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
COTUNACE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the COTUNACE Project 
Agreement;
(n)
“COTUNACE Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) (ii) of, and Schedule 6 to, this Agreement;
(o)
“Covered Risk” means the risk of loss suffered by a participating 
financial intermediary as a result of the failure to pay when due sums owing under a 
pre-shipment export finance loan granted to an Eligible Enterprise in the context of 
the PEFGF, as determined in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Standard Form of Guarantee Certificate;
(p)
“Dinars” and “TD” mean the Borrower’s lawful currency;
(q)
“Eligible Enterprise” means, individually, a small or medium commercial 
or manufacturing exporting enterprise established and operating within the Borrower’s 
territory, and engaged, directly or indirectly, in export transactions that are 
covered either by an irrevocable documentary credit which is confirmed in the 
Borrower’s territory by a participating financial intermediary party to a Guarantee 
Certificate or by export insurance against market interruption and non-payment, all in 
compliance with the eligibility and selection criteria set forth in the PEFGF 
Operations Manual, and the term “Eligible Enterprises” means, collectively, more than 
one Eligible Enterprise;
(r)
“EMAF” means the Export Market Access Fund provided under Part A of the 
Project to be administered and operated by CEPEX pursuant to the provisions of the 
CEPEX Project Agreement and the EMAF Operations Manual;
(s)
“EMAF Operations Manual” means the manual, to be adopted by CEPEX 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, setting forth the 
administrative, financial, operational and personnel procedures, including, inter 
alia, criteria for providing Matching Grants to Beneficiaries, accounting, financial 
reporting and auditing procedures, for the administration and operation of the EMAF, 
and the conduct and monitoring of its activities, as such manual may be amended from 
time to time with the prior written agreement of the Bank;
(t)
“Escrow Account” has the meaning ascribed to it under Section 1.01 (b) of 
the COTUNACE Project Agreement;
(u)
“Fiscal Year” means, individually, the twelve (12)-month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s or CEPEX’s or COTUNACE’s fiscal years, which 
period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the 
term “Fiscal Years” means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year;
(v)
“Guarantee” means, individually, a certificate of guarantee issued under 
the PEFGF by COTUNACE to a Guarantee Holder in respect of a Covered Risk, and the term 
“Guarantees” means, collectively, more than one Guarantee, provided, however, that 
Guarantees shall exclude any failure to pay sums owing under pre-shipment export 
finance loans that are due to: (i) the situation or behavior of the foreign buyer, 
(ii) the occurrence of war, revolution, riot or national disaster in the territory of 
the foreign buyer; or (iii) the occurrence of loss of or damage to the production 
equipment of an Eligible Enterprise;
(w)
“Guarantee Certificate” means any of the contracts referred to in the 
Schedule to the COTUNACE Project Agreement;
Page  4
(x)
“Guarantee Holder” means a participating financial intermediary who, 
having granted a pre-shipment export finance loan to an Eligible Enterprise on the 
context of the PEFGF has been issued a Guarantee Certificate by COTUNACE in accordance 
with the provisions of the PEFGF Operations Manual;
(y)
“Input Goods” means the goods and/or services provided to an Eligible 
Enterprise by a supplier for the purpose of producing Output Goods for increasing the 
Eligible Enterprise’s export production capacity;
(z)
“Loss” means the amount denominated in Dinars, payable by COTUNACE to a 
Guarantee Holder upon occurrence of a Covered Risk in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Guarantee Certificate issued to such Guarantee Holder;
(aa)
“Matching Grants” means the grants to be provided under the EMAF by CEPEX 
to Beneficiaries in accordance with the provisions of the CEPEX Project Agreement and 
the EMAF Operations Manual;
(bb)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and such term includes 
any successor thereto;
(cc)
“MOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Commerce, and such term includes 
any successor thereto;
(dd)
“MOC Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(iii) of, and Schedule 6 to, this Agreement;
(ee)
“Output Goods” means goods produced by an Eligible Enterprise using the 
Input Goods;
(ff)
“PA” means the Borrower’s National Ports Authority, and such term 
includes any successor thereto;
(gg)
“Payment” means any payment made to a Guarantee Holder on account of a 
Loss;
(hh)
“PCMU” means the Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit established 
within MOC pursuant to MOC’s Decision No. 157, dated March 26, 1999, and such term 
includes any successor thereto;
(ii)
“PEFGF” means the Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee Facility provided 
under Part B.1 of the Project as established by the PEFGF Legal Framework and to be 
administered and operated by COTUNACE pursuant to the provisions of the COTUNACE 
Project Agreement and the PEFGF Operations Manual;
(jj)
“PEFGF Legal Framework” means the law and/or decree to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, 
establishing the PEFGF and governing the conditions of its administration and 
operation, and such term includes all implementing regulations thereto up to the date 
of this Agreement;
(kk)
“PEFGF Operations Manual” means the manual, to be adopted by COTUNACE 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of the COTUNACE Project Agreement and 
referred to in Sub-paragraph 3 (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, setting forth the 
administrative, financial, operational and personnel procedures, including, inter 
alia, the terms and conditions for issuance of Guarantees (including the modalities 
for determining the premiums therefor), accounting, financial reporting and auditing 
procedures, for the day-to-day administration and operation of the PEFGF, and the 
conduct and monitoring of its activities, as such Manual may be amended from time to 
time with the prior written agreement of the Bank;
(ll)
“SITC” means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(mm)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of, 
and in Schedule 6 to, this Agreement;
Page  5
(nn)
“Standard Form of  Guarantee Certificate” means COTUNACE’s Standard Form 
of Guarantee Certificate, as approved by the Borrower and the Bank, which contains all 
the standard terms and conditions to be included in the Guarantee Certificates;
(oo)
“Steering Committee” means the Inter-Departmental Steering Committee 
appointed pursuant to the MOC’s Decision No. 156, dated March 26, 1999; and
(pp)
“Technical Committee” means the Borrower’s Trade Facilitation Technical 
Committee appointed pursuant to the MOC’s Decision No. 155, dated March 26, 1999.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty five 
million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, B.2, B.3 and C 
of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) for amounts 
paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made in 
respect of Matching Grants under Part A.1 of the Project and Guarantees issued under 
Part B.1 of the Project; and (iii) in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 
of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
the following separate special deposit accounts in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment: (i) one such account for Part A of the Project (the CEPEX Special 
Account); (ii) one such account for Part B of the Project (the COTUNACE Special 
Account); and (iii) one such account for Part C of the Project (the Borrower Special 
Account). Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Page  6
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Part C of the Project through CA, MOC and PA; (ii) without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause CEPEX 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the CEPEX Project Agreement all the 
obligations of CEPEX therein set forth in respect of carrying out Part A of the 
Project; and (iii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause COTUNACE to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the COTUNACE Project Agreement all the obligations of COTUNACE 
therein set forth in respect of carrying out Part B of the Project; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
financial, insurance, technical assistance and trade management practices.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project, and  shall take or cause to be 
taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable CEPEX and COTUNACE to perform 
their corresponding obligations under the CEPEX Project Agreement and the COTUNACE 
Project Agreement, respectively, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part C of the Project, through CA, MOC and PA, in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, in respect of Part A of the Project, make 
available to CEPEX, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (4) (a) and (5) (a), under a grant 
Page  7
agreement (the “CEPEX Grant Agreement”) to be entered into between MOF, acting on 
behalf of the Borrower, and CEPEX under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and obligations under the CEPEX 
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and achieve the objectives of the 
Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the CEPEX Grant Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B of the Project and 
for purposes of funding the PEFGF, make available to COTUNACE, on a non-reimbursable 
grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (2), 
(4) (b) and (5) (b), under a grant agreement (the “COTUNACE Grant and Management 
Agreement”) to be entered into between MOF, acting on behalf of the Borrower, and 
COTUNACE under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and obligations under the COTUNACE 
Grant and Management Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and achieve the 
objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the COTUNACE Grant and Management 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall at all times take all measures necessary on its 
part to ensure that COTUNACE shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Guarantee Certificates in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower, the Bank and COTUNACE and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and achieve 
the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by CEPEX pursuant to Section 2.11 of the CEPEX Project 
Agreement, and in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by COTUNACE 
pursuant to Section 2.07 of the COTUNACE Project Agreement.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter at all times 
maintain, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of 
Part C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Page  8
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts, 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
Paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with Paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CEPEX shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CEPEX 
Project Agreement;
(b)
COTUNACE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
COTUNACE Project Agreement;
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either CEPEX or COTUNACE will be able to perform its corresponding obligations 
under the CEPEX Project Agreement or the COTUNACE Project Agreement, respectively;
(d)
The PEFGF Decree shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of COTUNACE to perform 
any of its obligations under the COTUNACE Project Agreement;
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CEPEX or COTUNACE, or for the 
suspension of any of their operations;
(f)
Any provision of the CEPEX Charter or the COTUNACE Charter shall have 
Page  9
been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived so as to, in the opinion of 
the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of CEPEX or COTUNACE, as the 
case may be, to carry out its respective Part of the Project;
(g)
Any provision of the EMAF Operations Manual or the PEFGF Operations 
Manual shall have been amended, suspended or waived so as to, in the opinion of the 
Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of CEPEX or COTUNACE, as the case 
may be, to carry out its respective Part of the Project; or
(h)
Any provision of the Standard Form of Guarantee Certificate, which, in 
the opinion of the Bank, shall be deemed to be a material provision, shall have been 
amended without the prior written consent of the Bank.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the events specified in Paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) consecutive 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
Any of the events specified in Paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (g) or (h) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The CEPEX Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CEPEX and has entered into effect in accordance with its terms;
(b)
The COTUNACE Grant and Management Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower and COTUNACE and has entered into effect in accordance with its terms;
(c)
The Borrower has adopted the PEFGF Legal Framework in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank and said Legal Framework has entered into effect in 
accordance with its provisions;
(d)
CEPEX has adopted the EMAF Operations Manual, and COTUNACE has adopted 
the PEFGF Operations Manual, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(e)
The Borrower has appointed the CAR in accordance with the provisions of 
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
That the CEPEX Project Agreement has been duly executed and authorized by 
CEPEX, and is legally binding upon CEPEX in accordance with its terms;
(b)
That the COTUNACE Project Agreement has been duly executed and authorized 
by COTUNACE, and is legally binding upon COTUNACE in accordance with its terms;
(c)
That the CEPEX Grant Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and 
CEPEX and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CEPEX in accordance with its terms; 
and
(d)
That the COTUNACE Grant and Management Agreement has been duly executed 
by the Borrower and COTUNACE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and COTUNACE in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Page  10
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvedere Republic of Tunisia
Cable address: 
Telex:
MCIIE
18060
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Noureddine Majdoub 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  11
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
  Loan Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants Under Part A
10,000,000
100% of amounts
of the Project
of Grants disbursed
to any Beneficiary
(2)
Guarantee Facility Under
 5,000,000
100% of the amount
Part B of the Project
of the Guarantee
(3)
Civil Works
 5,190,000
75%
under Part C
of the Project
(4)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a)
Under Part A
   100,000
100% of local
of the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(b)
Under Part B
   150,000
and 80% of local
of the Project
expenditures for
other items procured
(c)
Under Part C
 8,930,000
locally
of the Project
(5)
Consultants' Services
and Training
(a)
Under Part A
 3,900,000
100%
of the Project
(b)
Under Part B
   250,000
100%
of the Project
(c)
Under Part C
 1,130,000
100%
of the Project
(6)
Fee
   350,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
 _________
TOTAL
35,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
The term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) Matching Grants; (ii) goods 
under contracts costing less than four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) equivalent 
each; (iii) civil works under contracts costing less than seven hundred fifty thousand 
dollars ($750,000) equivalent each; (iv) consultants’ services under contracts with 
firms costing less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent each; and 
(v) consultants’ services under contracts with individuals costing less than fifty 
Page  12
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s export-led economic 
growth, by enhancing the competitiveness of small and medium commercial and 
manufacturing enterprises by: (i) improving access to export markets; (ii) improving 
access to pre-shipment export finance; and (iii) facilitating international trade by 
simplifying import and export-related rules and procedures and strengthening 
electronic commerce.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Export Market Access Fund
1.
Establishing and operating an Export Market Access Fund (EMAF) for the provision 
of Matching Grants to Eligible Enterprises to enable them to identify and effectively 
penetrate viable export markets and enhance their export competitiveness, through 
inter alia: (i) introduction of appropriate export know-how and expertise; and (ii) 
co-financing through provision of Matching Grants export business support services of 
Beneficiaries, including marketing, adaptation of production and general export 
business development planning and strategy.
2.
Supporting the development and transfer of international trading companies 
within the Borrower’s territory with a view to increasing their contribution to the 
Borrower’s total exports.
3.
Carrying out targeted vendor development programs with international experts’ 
support.
4.
Conducting a viability and design study of a trade center capable of 
disseminating information on international business opportunities and partnerships, 
housing commercial information facilities and data base, dispensing specialized 
business advisory services, hosting business conferences and providing one-stop 
representation of international trade support services.
5.
Strengthening CEPEX’s institutional capacity to carry out the foregoing, through 
the provision of necessary goods and technical assistance services.
Part B:
Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee
1.
Establishing and operating a Pre-shipment Export Finance Guarantee Facility 
(PEFGF) for the provision of pre-shipment export finance guarantees to cover 
manufacturing nonperformance risks of Eligible Enterprises.
2.
Strengthening of COTUNACE’s institutional capacity to carry out the foregoing 
through the provision of necessary goods and technical assistance services.
Part C:
Trade Facilitation
1.
Modernizing and simplifying the Borrower’s regulations and procedures for 
external trade through inter alia:
(a)
Designing and implementing streamlined procedures for the customs 
clearance of, and port and cargo handling services for, exports and imports associated 
with international business transactions of enterprises operating within the 
Borrower’s territory;
(b)
Establishing a common computerized network for documentary interchanges 
linking manufacturers, shipping agents, freight forwarders, container terminal 
operators and customs brokers with the computer networks of the CA, MOC and PA, and 
extending the linkage of said networks to all customs entry and taxpayer access 
points, including the development and installation of related management information 
Page  13
systems;
(c)
Updating the Borrower’s customs computer applications to enable the 
automated electronic processing of customs declarations, and designing, piloting and 
planning the implementation of new procedures and organizational arrangements 
conducive to efficient customs and other tax administration related to exports and 
imports associated with international business transactions of enterprises operating 
within the Borrower’s territory;
(d)
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s customs officials through 
the provision of specialized training programs and training equipment, the 
construction or development of a customs training center and the dissemination of 
customs related information and best practices;
(e)
Renovating and equipping the Borrower’s Customs Documentation Center, 
including provision of computer hardware and software in connection therewith;
(f)
Establishment of a laboratory to carry out techno-chemical analysis for 
the Borrower’s customs services, including the provision of equipment therefor; and
(g)
Provision of scanners to CA to simplify customs control.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
    Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in US Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2004
through October 15, 2015
1,460,000
And on April 15, 2016
1,420,000
___________________________ 
Page  14
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in US Dollars to be repaid, 
except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the “Guidelines”) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) equivalent or 
more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million five 
hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000) 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
Page  15
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) or more, and with respect to each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of four hundred thousand dollars 
($400,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the “Consultant Guidelines”) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services and training under the Project, estimated 
to cost less than two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, C.1(b) and C.1(c) of the Project which 
are estimated to cost less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for the design of information systems and marketing under the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Commercial Practice
Services to assist Eligible Enterprises in carrying out activities under Part 
A.1 of the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable 
to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  16
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Without any limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this 
Agreement,  for the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program for Part C of the Project shall consist of the following provisions:
1.
Responsibility for general policy guidance and overall coordination of the 
carrying out of the Project shall be vested in the Steering Committee, to be 
maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the Project with membership and 
terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Responsibility for overall supervision of the carrying out of the Project shall 
be vested in the PCMU, to be maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the 
Project with terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Responsibility for setting PEFGF Guarantee premiums shall be vested in MOF, and 
the responsibility for assessing PEFGF financial risks and to supervise COTUNACE’s 
compliance with the requirements and procedures of the PEFGF shall be vested in the 
CAR, to be maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the Project with 
membership and terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Responsibility for the supervision and coordination of the carrying out of Part 
C of the Project shall be vested in the Technical Committee, to be maintained by the 
Borrower throughout the duration of the Project with membership and terms of reference 
at all times satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Part C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
Page  17
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “Eligible Categories” means: (i) in respect of the CEPEX Special 
Account, Categories (1), (4) (a) and (5) (a); (ii) in respect of the COTUNACE Special 
Account, Category (2); and (iii) in respect of the Borrower Special Account, 
Categories (3), (4) (c) and (5) (c).
(b)
The term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term “Authorized Allocation” means, in respect of:
(i)
the CEPEX Special Account, an amount equivalent to one million 
dollars 
($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the 
CEPEX Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to six hundred thousand dollars 
($600,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
allocated to Categories (1), (4) (a) and (4) (b), plus the total amount 
of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of 
the Project, shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of three 
million dollars ($3,000,000);
(ii)
the COTUNACE Special Account, an amount equivalent to two million 
dollars 
($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the 
COTUNACE Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and
(iii)
the Borrower Special Account, an amount equivalent to one million 
dollars 
($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the MOC 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to six hundred thousand dollars 
($600,000) 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
allocated to Categories 3, (4) (c) and (5) (c), plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Part C of the Project, shall be equal 
to or 
exceed the equivalent of three million dollars ($3,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  18
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
If, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Page  19
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
