Docrment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3964- -
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 29.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
SECOND POWER PROJECT
February 28, 1985
This document hs a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(December 1984)
Currency Unit - Uganda shilling (USh)
USh 1.00 - US$0.002
USS 1.00   USh 550 I/
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC    -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
EAC    -  East African Community
ESMAP  -  Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IRR    -  Internal Rate of Return
LRMC   -  Long-run marginal cost
MPPT   -  Ministry of Power, Posts and Telecommunications
ODA    -  Overseas Development Administration (UK)
UEB    -  Uganda Electricity Board
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
GWh    -  Gigawatt hour
km     -  kilometer
KV     -  kilo volt
KWh    -  Kilowatt hour
MVA    -  Megavolt ampere
MW     -  Megawatt
toe    -  tons of oil equivalent
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  July 1 - June 30
UEB        : January 1 - December 31
1/  The exchange rate of USSI = USh 520 has been used in the calculations
for the proposed project.



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of Uganda.
Beneficiary:           Uganda Electricity Board (UEB).
Amount:                SDR 29.5 million (US$28.8 million equivalent).
*           Terms:                 Standard.
Onlending Terms:       20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 10% annual
interest; the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
UEB.
Project Description:  The project consists of four main parts:
(i)    At the Owen Falls Power Station, ten turbo-
generator units would be rehabilitated, and
structural repairs would be implemented to the
dam and to the power house. Furthermore,
electrical and mechanical equipment would be
rehabilitated, the workshop would be
refurbished, and tools and equipment for
maintenance would be provided.
Cii)   The Transmission and Distribution Network
would be rehabilitated, one of the transmis-
sion lines between Owen Falls and Kampala
would be uprated, and the transmissior. lines
between Kampala and Nkenda, and between Tororo
and Lira would be strengthened.
(iii)  These components would be supported through
the provision of vehicles, tools and equipment
for maintenance and repair services and
through the rehabilitation of UEB's Staff
Training Center and UEB's operational build-
ings and staff housing and the implementation
of a Training Study. Engineering and consult-
ing services for construction supervision
would also be provided.
(iv)   The Project would also include studies of
UEB's tariff structure and level and billing
and collection system, and the provision of a
computer for UEB. In addition, technical
assistance would be provided focusing on the
new Energy Department, on a forest and
fuelwood plantation inventory, on fuelwood
marketing, and on a household energy survey in
major towns of Uganda.
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Benefits:      The proposed Project would prevent the development of
a bottleneck in power supplies that would hinder
economic recovery in the medium term. It would also
strengthen UEB's operational capability and contri-
bute to future development of the power system
through engineering and design work for the next
hydroelectric project to be built in Uganda.
Project Risks:         The main risk affecting the Project is the ability of
the Government to maintain security in the areas that
will be traversed by transmission and distribution
system to be rehabilitated under the Project. In
addition to the physical security risk for work crews
and equipment, there is also the risk that prospec-
tive contractors might add a risk premium to their
bids or that they may suffer losses in case of
security incidents. In order to keep this risk low,
contracts will contain provisions to protert
contractors adequately.
Estimated Project
costs:                                                 Foreign   Local   Total
- -(USS milion)-
Owen Falls Power Station:
(a) Civil Works                 4.4       -        4.4
(b) Equipment                   9.2       0.6     9.8
Transmission &
Distribution Equipment          17.9      3.6    21.5
Tools, Workshop Equipment,
Vehicles & Taxes                 -        0.9      0.9
Engineering & Supervision          2.9      0.8      3.7
Training Center & Study            0.3      0.4      0.7
Other Studies                      4.1      1.4      5.5
Base Costs                      38.8      7.7    46.5
Physical Contingencies             4.7      0.6      5.3
Price Contingencies                5.8      0.9      6.7
Total Project Costs             49.3      9.2    58.5
Interest Financed                  3.1     11.8    14.9
Total Financing Required        52.$     21.0    73.4



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                    Foreign  Local  Total
---(US$ million)-
IDA                           27.6      1.2   28.8
CDC                           12.8      0.2   13.0
ODA                           12.0      -      12.0
UEB                            -       19.6   19.6
Total                       52.4    21.0   73.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                        IDA  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
-----(USS million)---
Annual              8.5   15.0   4.0   0.9   0.4
Cumulative          8.5   23.5  27.5  28.4  28.8
Rate of Return:        16.7X
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 5329-UG dated February 28, 1985
Map:                   IBRD 18542.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A
SECOND POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Uganda for SDR 29.5 million (US$28.8
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help fina,.ce a second power
project. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the Uganda
Electricity Board (UEB) for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of
5 years, at 10% annual interest.  UEB would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in May-June 1983 and its
report, entitled "Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 4733-UG
dated December 9, 1983), has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
A summary of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages:
(a) a favorable climate, fertile soils, and rich mineral base for
economic developr'ent;
(b) an established indigenous smallholder sector providing a widening
range of export crops and an ample domestic food supply;
(c) a small but rapidly growing industrial sector, contributing
exports of copper and textiles;
(d) a well-developed transport system, including facilities shared
with Kenya and Tanzaria under the East African Community (EAC);
(e) an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity, with substantial scope
for further development on the Victoria Nile; and
(f) one of the most advanced education systems in Eastern Africa.
1/   Part I is essentially the same as the one included in the President's
Report for the Agricultural Development Project (P-3912-UG) of
December 11, 1984.



-2-
The initial years after independence clearly demonstrated the economic
potential of the country. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 4.8%
per annum from 1963 to 1970, implying an increase in per capita terms of at
least 2% per annum. The country also was able to maintain a reasonable
savings rate (averaging 13%), which permitted implementation of an
ambitious investment program without undue pressure on domestic prices or
the balance of payments. Although Uganda's export volumes grew slowly,
export earnings were more than adequate to cover import requirements and
the country maintained a current account surplus in most years. The
Government's budgetary position also was sound. Revenue increased faster
than recurrent expenditure during the latter half of the 1960s and,
together with non-bank domestic borrowing, helped finance a significant
proportion of development outlays.
4.        Howe%er, after the coup in 1971, the situation quickly deterio-
rated. Under the military regime, many skilled personnel left the country,
the parastatal sector became bloated with the addition of many abandoned or
confiscated industries, and professional standards within the administra-
tion eroded. On top of these largely self-imposed problems, the Ugandan
economy was shaken by a series of external shocks: the sharp rise in
petroleum prices after 1973, the breakup of the EAC in 1977, and the damage
and looting which occurred during the 1978-79 war. As a result of these
developments, real GDP stagnated through 1977 and then fell over the next
three years. Import levels had to be cut by 502 from 1970 to 1979 due to
lower export volumes, worsening terms of trade (except during the coffee
boom years of 1977-79), and dwindling aid receipts. The Government's
budgetary position also became increasingly untenable as the revenue base
was undermined and expenditure control collapsed. The resultant deficit
was financed increasingly by bank borrowing, leading to monetary expansion
and price inflation (averaging 74% per annum from 1977 to 1979). Not
surprisingly, critical shortages developed and a large share of economic
activity was diverted to the pervasive parallel market system called
*magendo".
Recent Developments
5.        By April 1979, when the military regime was overthrown, the
Ugandan economy was in ruins. Initial efforts to promote recovery were
constrained by an unstable political situation, administrative weaknesses,
and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. As a result, many of the
adverse trends evident during the 1970s continued through 1980. In partic-
ular, real GDP continued to decline while the inflation rate rose above
100% per annum. Then, in mid-1981, the Government made a dramatic break
with the past by announcing a major devaluation of the Uganda shilling and
related price adjustments. Through a series of financial programs, sup-
ported by assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other
donors, further policy reforms have been introduced over the past three
years (see paragraphs 7-9). As a result, economic performance has shown a
marked improvement, despite the negative impact of internal security
problems and adverse world economic conditions. The difficult security
situation is explained by the disintegration of law and order during the
1970s and the need to discipline the security forces after the 1978-79



- 3 -
war. Although most of the country is now at peace, periodic incidents
continue to occur, especially around Kampala, disrupting production and
transport activities and diverting budgetary resources to security-related
activities. As regards the world economy, although Uganda's terms of trade
improved after 1981, the index remains at less than half the peaks achieved
during the coffee boom years of 1977-79 and only 65% of the level in 1970.
Equally important, Uganda's export earnings are constrained by quotas on
coffee sales imposed under the International Coffee Agreement (ICA).
Uganda's coffee production substantially exceeds its quota limit, and
stocks equivalent to 70% of quota exports have currently accumulated. The
combination of economic recession and tighter fiscal policies in developed
countries also has affected the availability of external assistance. For
Uganda, aid mobilization has been made particularly difficult by the legacy
of international isolation imposed during the 1970s and continuing concern
overseas about the security situation.
6.        Economic recovery is evident in a number of indicators:
(a) Since 1980, GDP has grown on average by 6% per annum. Recovery
was initially concentrated in subsistence agriculture, but growth
has aubsequently been particularly strong in monetary agriculture
(12% average annual growth 1982-84). Industry has been slower to
recover.
(b) Export volumes have risen by an estimated 41% from 1980 to 1983,
and would have recovered even more without the coffee quota
constraint. This export growth, together with better utilization
of aid, has helped to finance a much-needed expansion of import
volumes since 1981.
(c) Significant budgetary improvements, including the establishment
by FY 1982/83 of a healthy recurrent surplus, a major reduction
in the dependence of budgetary financing on bank borrowing, and
no less than a fiftyfold increase in recurrent revenues since FY
1980/81. These improvements have been absolutely central to
bringing down the rate of inflation from over 100% in 1981 to
about 30% in 1983. Recent developments indicate, however, some
acceleration of inflation due to weakening of fiscal and monetary
*                      discipline.
Despite this progress, overall levels of economic activity and trade remain
substantially below peak levels achieved in the early 1970s.  As a result,
per capita Gross National Product (GNP) still is only two-thiras of the
1970 level.
The Government's Policies and Programs
7.        The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second to this is the
goal of rehabilitating the productive sectors. The first step toward
rehabilitation was the introduction of the financial program for FY
1981/82, which has been followed by similar programs for FY 1982/83 and



-4-
FY 1983/84. These programs have been supported by three stand-by arrange-
ments with the IMF (for a total of SDR 320 million), drawings from the
First and Second Reconstruction Credits (providing US$145 million after
June 1981) made available by the Association, and assistance from other
donors. Major actions taken by the Government are summarized below:
(a) The official exchange rate was devalued from under USh 8 to USh
78 per US dollar in June 1981, and subsequently steadily
depreciated to about USh 500 per US dollar in November 1984. In
August 1982, the Government opened a second window where foreign
exchange was more freely traded in an auction system. After the
introduction of this dual exchange rate system, the two rates
steadily depreciated (although the Window II rate appreciated for
a while) and the differential between them narrowed. These
adjustments led to a substantial reduction in the premium and
importance of the unofficial market for foreign exchange. In
June 1984, the two windows were merged. Foreign exchange now is
made available through a weekly auction, with the rate determined
by the marginal bid.
(b) The initial devaluation in June 1981 was accompanied by the
removal of most price controls. The major exceptions were for
producer prices of traditional export crops, retail prices of
petroleum products, and utility tariffs. For these controlled
items, significant price increases were introduced.   Petroleum
prices were increased by more than twentyfold after December 1980
to reflect fully the impact of window-one exchange rate changes.
Producer price adjustments were more moderate, with increases of
about tenfold for most major export crops. However, these
increases are still substantially higher than general inflation
and net returns from the production of all major export crops are
now positive. Producer prices are adjusted on a regular basis to
ensure that net returns to the farmer remain positive.
(c) Various measures have been introduced to improve monetary and
fiscal discipline. To help control the demand for money and to
allocate credit, most interest rates were nearly doubled over the
past two years (although they remain negative in real terms). As
part of its obligations under the IMF stand-by arrangements, the
Government agreed to and met ceilings on the growth of net
domestic credit and net credit to the Government. On the fiscal
side, a number of measures were taken in mid-1981 to streamline
and improve the elasticity of the taxation structure. Strict
control also has been maintained over cash releases to
ministries, although this has sometimes been at the cost of
underfunding critical functions and accumulating domestic
arrears.
8.        The Government's original Recovery Programme, which included
proposals for policy and institutional reform as well as a project-specific
investment plan for FY 1982/83 and FY 1983/84, was presented to the meeting
of the Consultative Group in May 1982. All participants at the meeting



-5-
commended the Government's commitment, as reflected in the Recovery
Programme, to prioritize rehabilitation activities and to restrict overall
resource allocations to realistic levels. Following a progress review, the
Government published a Revised Recovery Programme in October 1983. This
updated document takes account of resource constraints and implementation
problems encountered over FY 1983/84 and incorporates FY 1984/85 fully into
the investment plan. However, the broad objectives and strategy remain the
came, focusing on short-term revival of the productive sectors. Priority
in all sectors is given to rehabilitation and improved utilization of
existing capacity. Although provision has now been made for preparatory
work on a number of new projects, most projects do not involve large
expenditures through FY 1984/85 and are essential to maintain momentum in
later years. The Revised Recovery Programme also includes a number of
innovations and changes designed to make it more effective for decision
making and to facilitate project implementation. This Programme was
discussed at a further meeting of the Consultative Group in January 1984,
at which participants again welcomed tle strategy and priorities as well as
the implied level and composition of Uganda's aid requirements for 1984 and
1985 (see paragraph 16).
9.        A decisive start in the process of economic recovery has now been
made. The basic priority for further action is to strengthen the adminis-
trative framework for implementing the Government's programs, for carrying
them forward, and for making them more effective. In some cases,
strengthening means rebuilding what already existed in the early 1970s; in
others, it means developing new institutions and policies relevant to
today's realities. The administrative weaknesses faced by Uganda (and many
other Sub-Saharan African countries) are inherently difficult to tackle and
progress will be slow. However, the magnitude of the task ahead should not
be allowed to undermine the commitment to much-needed economic reforms.
The Government has already initiated action in this area. The Report of
the Public Service Salaries Review Commission, which covers many issues
relating to the organization and operation of the civil service besides
salaries, was presented in November 1982 and is still under Government
review. The FY 1984/85 budget introduced a quantum increase in civil
service salaries, although there are indications that the Government is
having to borrow excessively from the banking system to finance this salary
increase. If inflation is to be kept under control, this development will
have to be monitored carefully. To facilitate recovery in the industrial
sector, the Government passed the Expropriated Properties Act in February
1983 to provide a legal basis for resolving ownership issues, and initiated
a series of financial and accounting studies on major parastatal
organizations. Various measures were introduced over the past two years to
improve foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing procedures.
Finally, the Agricultural Policy Committee has been established to advise
the Government on prices, marketing, and resource allocations for the
agricultural sector. The Secretariat of the Committee undertakes on a
regular basis an analysis of the production costs of the major export
crops, and makes recommendations to the Government on appropriate
adjustments to producer prices. Not surprisingly, given the severe erosion
of the country's productive base and infrastructure during the 1970s, much
remains to be done before Uganda's recovery can be considered complete.



- 6 -
However, the Government's Revised Recovery Programme and evolving policies
are headed in the right direction and merit support from the international
community.
Sectoral Priorities
10.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially of exports. This entails the highest priority initially being
given to production of export crops, to rehabilitation of supporting
transport and communications infrastructure, and to production of basic
consumer goods, building materials, and agricultural inputs by the
industrial sector. Other sectors, especially the social sectors, also
require urgent rehabilitation. But in thte near future, rehabilitation of
these sectors must be limited to the extent of their potential contribution
to recovery. Improvements in medical services, repair of classrooms, and
rehabilitation of urban water systems, for example, may be expected to
provide an important, if unquantifiable, incentive to producers.
11.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing the liveli-
hood for about 90% of the population and supplying almost all Uganda's
exports in recent years. Ugandan agriculture depends largely on small- and
medium-scale peasant farms. No attempt was ever made to encourage expa-
triate settlements. Even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, although areas like
Karamoja in the northeast, which are vulnerable to drought and depend on
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered periodic food short-
ages as a result of low rainfall and insecurity. Rehabilitation of agri-
culture is the top priority for Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee,
cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could all continue to grow rapidly over
the next three years (although the previous peak levels are not likely to
be reached until later in the 1980s and coffee exports will probably remain
subject to ICA quota constraints). In addition, scope exists for expanding
non-traditional exports (e.g., hides and skins, foodstuffs, and fertil-
izers) to neighboring countries. Revival of cotton and other agricultural
production would also supply some domestic industrial needs. During the
rehabilitation phase, the Government has given top priority to improving
incentives, partly through adjustments in producer prices. Closely related
is the supply of inputs, implements, spares for processing and trcnsport,
and consumer goods to stimulate the production of surpluses. Over the
longer term, agricultural services, including research and extension, also
will need more attention.
12.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g., textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, the sector largely
collapsed during the 1970s. Although industrial production began a modest
recovery during 1982 and 1983, indications are that this recovery may have
halted in 1984, with many enterprises still closed and average capacity
utilization of only about 30%. Recovery in the industrial sector has been
hampered by a number of constraints. The bulk of the sector has not yet
made the investments necessary to put their equipment in working order, due



- 7 -
primarily to the shortage of working capital to purchase spare parts and
equipment, foreign exchange for imported inputs, and locally-available
materials. Other constraints, such as unresolved ownership questions,
creditworthiness problems of firms, unreliable infrastructure, and poor
management also deter recovery in the sector. The Government has declared
its intention to follow a 'mixed economy" strategy, with only essential
public services reserved exclusively for the public sector. In other
areas, domestic and foreign private enterprise is encouraged, either wholly
owned or in joint ventures with the Government. The Government expects to
close or sell a number of existing industrial enterprises, while the
financial viability of the remaining parastatals is to be restored through
increased tariffs, asset revaluation, and injections of new capital.
Actions initiated by the Government in this area, including the
Expropriated Properties Act and a program of financial and accounting
studies, were noted in paragraph 9. However, the modalities for
restructuring the parastatal sector are still to be worked out fully.
13.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined ear-
lier: departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and in-
adequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the EAC in 1977 had a serious effect,
especially on Uganda's access to international trade routes. As a result,
Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and aircraft and her
part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya and Tanzania. This
necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda and seriously disrupted
international traffic movements while increasing their cost. Transport
was, moreover, the sector possibly most seriously affected by the war and
the widespread subsequent looting. The vehicle fleet, in particular, was
decimated. Rehabilitation of the transport system and sector institutions
thus becomes a key requirement for economic recovery.
14.       The Bank Group recently updated its earlier assessment of
Uganda's energy sector. Energy use is primarily based on fuelwood,
electricity, and petroleum. Fuelwood is estimated to account for about 91%
of total energy and 48% of commercial energy consumption in Uganda.
Concern is, therefore, mounting that uncontrolled cutting will eventually
deplete the most accessible forest resources and lead to further soil
erosion.  The proposed project includes provision for a national forest
inventory and other surveys, as a precursor to rehabilitating the depleted
forests and to the preparation of national fuelwood and household energy
strategies. At present, Uganda's electric generating capacity is less than
its rated capacity due to a backlog of major maintenance, and any unused
capacity would be quickly absorbed as the economy recovers, as substitution
is made for more expensive fuels (such as petroleum products), and if new
long-term export agreements are concluded with neighboring countr'es. As
regards petroleum, the Government has succeeded in reducing the cost of
imports in recent years through the impact of higher retail prices on
domestic consumption and smuggling as well as the improvement in supply
arrangements. Promotion efforts for the exploration of petroleum resources
in the Albert Rift are underway (through the Petroleum Promotion
Exploration Project, for which a US$5.1 million IDA credit is being



-8-
proposed separately'), although local oil production remalns a longer-term
and uncertain prospect.
15.       The Government endorses the goals of the International Drinking
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade and is giving high priority to the water
and sewerage sector. The main objective for this sector is to restore
basic services through rehabilitation of existing water supply and sewerage
facilities. In addition, with the assistance of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Bank Group, an updated water sector
study/action plan is underway using various studies previously prepared by
the World Health Organization, Swedish International Development
Association, and United Nations. This study will help to improve the
Government's planning capacity in the water sector.
Aid and Debt
16.      Under the base-case scenario presented in the last Country
Economic Memorandum, Uganda's GDP is projected to grow by 4.7% per annum
through 1985 and 3.6% per annum over the subsequent five years. These
projections assume a steady improvement in the internal security situation
and continued progress on economic reforms. The viability of this scenario
is also critically dependent on the availability of foreign exchange to
finance recurrent imports and priority rehabilitation projects. The recent
recovery in export performance is expected to continue. However, an
important factor in this assumption is that Uganda's coffee quota will be
increased from 2.3 million bags in 1983 to 2.5 million bags in 1985.
Although Uganda's case for a higher quota is strong and a small increase
was granted recently, a further increase is not assured. The current
account deficit, in real terms, is projected to rise in 1984 and then
steadily decline over the remainder of the decade. This has major
implications for external financing requirements:
(a) Commitment levels are required to increase by an average of 52
during 1984 and 1985 to US$444 million in 1985 and then to
continue rising by about 4% per annum (below the projected rate
of international inflation).
(b) The composition of commitments is as important as the levels
themselves. Under Ugandan conditions, balance of payments
support will continue to be essential for at least the next two
to three years. However, project aid will become increasingly
important during the second half of the decade and even has a
role to play in the short term, provided it is consistent with
the rehabilitation priorities in the Revised Recovery Programme.
Technical assistance, while not as large in dollar terms, is
important to improve public administration and to make other aid
effective.
(c) The net benefit to Uganda of higher commitments could soon be
eroded if they are not provided on concessional terms. This does
not preclude the possibility of utilizing some commercial bank
loans or suppliers' credits in essociation with concessional
assistance, but only for selected projects that generate
additional net foreign exchange earnings to cover fully the



-9 -
related debt obligations. However, arrangements which involve
prior claims on foreign exchange, such as coffee barter deals,
should be avoided.
17.       On the Ugandan side, every effort must be made to strengthen aid
coordination and administration. To this end, the Government has now
reaffirmed that formal responsibility for aid management, including signing
agreements and approving disbursements, lies with the Ministry of Finance.
To facilitate this function, an aid coordinator has been appointed at the
Permanent Secretary level and he is to be assisted by a staff of twelve.
In addition, the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED) has e
vital role to play in assuring that aid mobilized is in line with the
priorities of the Revised Recovery Program and in monitoring aid utiliza-
tion and project implementation. Therefore, appropriate staff, facilities,
and technical assistance should also be allocated to the MPED so that these
functions can be performed effectively and working level contacts between
MPED and the Ministry of Finance can be strengthened.
18.       Uganda's external debt outstanding and disbursed had reached an
estimated US$661 million by the end of 1983. Of this amount, 3.5% was due
to the Bank/Association (for Uganda's notional share of EAC loans) and
13.5% to the Association alone. Fortunately for Uganda, the terms of new
aid commitments since 1979 have been highly concessional, with about half
being grants and the balance being loans with a grant element of 60%.
However, other debt obligations, such as war-related assistance and IMF
purchases, have helped to raise the overall debt service ratio to around
50% during 1981-83. Under the base-case scenario in the Country Economic
Memorandum, the debt service ratio is projected to fall back to 46% in 1984
and 31% by 1990. This, however, is still cause for concern. The down-side
risks are very real. Uganda's export structure still depends heavily on
coffee earnings, which could be constrained by further quota restrictions
and unfavorable price movements. Also, the Government may find reduction
in import requirements for security-related activities difficult. Finally,
adequate amounts of assistance on concessional terms may not be forthcoming
to support recovery. This outlook reinforces the importance of external
debt management. Progress has been made over the past year in improving
debt recording and an External Debt Management Office has been estab-
lished. The real priority now is to develop an appropriate borrowing
program for Uganda.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 2/
19.       Uganda joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) in 1963. Two years earlier, in 1961, the Uganda
2/   Part II is essentially the same as the one included in the President's
Report for the Agricultural Development Project (P-3912-UG) of
December 11, 1984.



- 10 -
Electricity Board had already received a World Bank Loan of US$8.4 million
for a (First) Power Project (Ln. 279-UG of March 29, 1961) with the
guarantee of the United Kingdom. Between 1967 and 1971, the Association
provided seven credits to the country totalling US$48.0 million for
projects in education, roads, and agriculture (tea, tobacco, and beef
ranching). In addition, Uganda benefitted from 10 loans amounting to
US$244.8 million for the development of common services of the East African
Community and for the East African Development Bank. IFC's first
investment in Uganda, in a textile company, was sold to the Government in
1970. The second, to help finance two lodges in the national parks, was
cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC approved new investments
in the Sugar Corporation of Uganda and in the Toro and Mityana Tea Company
in FY84 and in the Development Finance Company of Uganda in FY85. Annex II
gives further details about IFC investments in the country.
20.       Operations of the Association in Uganda were interrupted because
of the military regime from June 1971 until February 1980 (paragraphs 4 and
5). Since February 1980, the Association has provided 13 credits to Uganda
totalling US$473.5 million. The credits were based on a lending strategy
consistent with priorities identified in the Government's Recovery
Programme and were designed to help restore the economy to a fully
functioning level through: rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and
productive capacity; strengthening of administrative, institutional, and
technical capacity; and implementation of appropriate sector policies.
21.       To meet urgent rehabilitation needs, the Association has been
providing funds under three reconstruction credits. The first
Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 983-UG of 1980 for US$72.5 million)
included a participation of US$17.5 million by the Government of the
Netherlands (Credit No. 983-1-UG). It also was complemented by a European
Economic Community Special Action Credit (54-UG for US$20.0 million). In
addition, the Government of Canada provided a grant of Can$3.0 million and
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund made
available a program loan of US$5.0 million. Although the Reconstruction
Program originally experienced implementation delays and slow
disbursements, it now is fully disbursed. A Program Performance Audit
Report is under preparation. The Second Reconstruction Program (Credit
No. 1252-UG of 1982 for US$70.0 million) is under implementation. The
Governments of Canada and the Netherlands made grants in the amounts of
CanS5.0 million and DFL 15.0 million, respectively, in supplementary
financing for the Second Program. The Third Reconstruction Program (Credit
No. 1474-UG of 1984 for US$50.0 million) became effective in November
1984. An amount of DFL 20.0 million is being provided as supplementary
financing by the Government of the N-therlands.
22.       The Association also has been supporting technical assistance to
key institutions through the First Technical Assistance Project (Credit
No. 1077-UG of 1981 for US$8.0 million) and the Second Technical
Assistance Project (Credit No. 1434-UG of 1984 for US$15.0 million).
Disbursements are nearly completed for the First Project. Commitments are
being made more quickly for the Second Project. Although small in
financial terms, technical assistance represents an essential component of



- 11 -
the Association's lending strategy, both to strengthen the Government's
administrative/institutional capacity as well as to facilitate project
preparation and implementation. It also serves the vital objective of
assisting training, both directly and through upgrading of facilities.
23.       In addition, the Association has been providing rehabilitation
credits, which total US$268.0 million, for engineering related to water
supply and phosphate exploitation operations and for agricultural,
education, highway, industry, telecommunications, and water supply and
sanitation projects. These projects also include technical assistance
components. Annex II gives further details about the projects.
Implementation has been somewhat slower than expected, largely due to the
shortage of Government counterpart funds (paragraph 25).
24.       For the immediate future, operations of the Association will
remain focused on rehabilitation projects. Operations of the Association
are expected to shift gradually into traditional projects in the
agricultural, energy, industry, and transport sectors. This shift will
help support the continued recovery of the economy and its further
development. The Association intends to continue to provide technical
assistance in these sectoral projects.
25.       Disbursements from the Association to Uganda grew from US$1.2
million in FY80 to US$41.2 million in FY84. A comparison with other
portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates that the disbursement
rate for Uganda was higher than the average for the Region, ranging as a
proportion of outstanding commitments from 44.4% in FY80 to 30.3% in FY83
(compared with 20.4% and 27.2% in the same years for the Region as a
whole).  In FY84, the disbursement rate for Uganda declined to 17.7%,
mostly because of lack of local funds to be provided by the Government,
whilc that of the Region declined to 23.1%.
26.       In addition to its own lending portfolio, the Bank Group is
administering an Agricultural Reconstruction Program financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (Loan No. 80-UG for US$17.6
million and Grant No. 85-UG for US$0.94 million of 1982); an Assistance in
Economic Planning Project (No. UGA 79/011 of 1981 for US$3.3 million) and a
Line of Credit to Assist the Uganda Development Bank (No. UGA 80/017 of
1983 for USS2.0 million) financed by the UNDP; and an Industrial Loan to
the Uganda Development Bank (Loan No. 301-PG of 1983 for US$15.0 million)
financed by the OPEC Fund.
PART III: THE ENERGY SECTOR
Sector Issues
27.       The Government's recovery program which maps out a coherent
strategy, embracing macroeconomic and sectoral policies as well as
individual projects, now has as its basic objective the rehabilitation of
the production sectors and the improvement of existing capacities. Thus



- 12 -
the Government's evolving strategy in the energy sector has had timely
support from the UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Report (Report No.
4453-UG, entitled 'Uganda: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector," dated
July 1983) which identified the sector issues and made recommendations.
These were endorsed by the Government and marked the first step toward a
national strategy in the energy sector since the end of the civil war in
1979.
28.       The main issues identified were:  (a) the high cost of petroleum
imports; (b) relatively low efficiency in the use of petroleum products and
woodfuels; tc) distortions in retail prices of petroleum products and
shortcomings in the retail pricing formula; (d) unreliability of power
supply and high power system losses; (e) shortfall in power generation
capacity to meet forecast demand beyond the mid-1980s; (f) low level of
power tariffs and inappropriate tariff structure; (g) insufficient supply
of fuelwood, especially in the Kampala/Entebbe region; (h) inadequate level
of stumpage fees; and (i) lack of sectorwide coordination and planning. A
follow-up Energy Assessment Status Report was issued in August 1984.
29.       The major institutions of the sector are the Ministry of Power,
Posts and Telecommunications (MPPT), Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), the
Bank of Uganda (petroleum importation and marketing), the Forestry
Department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Geological
Survey and Mines Department in the Ministry of Lands, Minerals and Water
Resources, and the National Research Council in the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Development. The importation and marketing of petroleum
products in Uganda is handled by six oil companies in three of which the
Government has equal shareholdings with non-government partners. Energy
policy is coordinated by a nucleus staff within MPPT, MPED and the
subsector institutions. To assist in setting up the Energy Department
newly instituted in MPPT to facilitate energy policy coordination and
integrated sector planning, the Government requested technical assistance
under the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
(ESMAP) for an Energy Sector Institutional Review focussing primarily on
the formation and operation of the Department. The Bank mission visited
Uganda in June 1984 and has prepared a report outlining the technical
assistance which is proposed to be a part of this project.
30.       The Government has taken several important and well-directed
initiatives in each energy subsector. It is also attempting energy
efficiency improvements under the Bank's Industrial Rehabilitation Credit.
During the last year and a half, these efforts have remaii:ed largely in the
study phase, although in a few cases implementation has been initiated,
including a number of fuel substitution efforts involving conversion to
heavier fuel oil and bagasse. Energy-related rehabilitation efforts in the
transport sector aim at reducing specific fuel consumption through improve-
ments in vehicle maintenance and repair facilities, training of drivers and
mechanics, railway track repair and regrading, and rehabilitation of road
networks. As noted above the Government has also taken strong steps to
strengthen the institutional capability of the energy sector and to seek
technical assistance for priority activities in the energy sector.



- 13 -
Energy Resources
31.       Uganda has ample hydropower and woodfuel potential for energy
development. It has the disadvantages common to many African countries
of having to import all of its petroleum products. No petroleum or gas has
been discovered but the Government is supporting the identification and
promotion of prospects as de, cribed in paragraph 37 below in order to
encourage future participation of oil companies. There is no coal; peat
exists but does not justify exploitation. Geothermal sources and uranium
prospects have been identified, but the former has low priority because of
the great hydroelectric potential; assessment of the uranium potential is
in progress.
32.       Renewable Energy Resources - Fuelwood.  Uganda's woodfuels
contribute the main supply of energy to the population; forests and
woodlands are estimated to cover 2.76 million hectares, or 12% of the
country's total area. The energy assessment report recommended among other
fuelwood production-oriented directives that a national inventory be made,
complemented by a survey of consumption trends and projections for all wood
products in order to identify the areas of critical shortage. A national
inventory of natural forest reserves and plantations, together with
fuelwood marketing and household energy surveys, which will serve as inputs
for the preparation of a household energy strategy, is included in the
Project. Preliminary estimates indicate that fuelwood consumption in 1983
was 13.6 million tons, which is well above the sustainable annual yield of
10.9 million tons (excluding non-energy uses) and an increase of 4% over
1982.
33.       Hydroelectric Resources.  Uganda's  hydroelectric potential is
concentrated on the Victoria Nile with its unlimited storage provided by
Lake Victoria. The Nile within Uganda falls into three sections, namely
Lake Victoria to Lake Kyoga, Lake Kyoga to Lake Albert (both forming the
Victoria Nile), and Lake Albert to the Sudanese border at Nimule (Albert
Nile). The available head is concentrated in seven locations, with a total
potential capacity of about 1,745 MW and annual firm generation capability
of about 10,200 GWh. Although the hydroelectric potential is substantial
and relatively low-cost by world standards, the potential can be developed
only in increments that are large relative to the size of the Ugandan
demand, and therefore the potential for substantial exports to neighboring
countries is a significant factor in determining the economics of
development.
.
34.       Other Renewable Energy Resources.  The assessment report
recommended that studies should be made of the economics of new renewable
energy options such as geothermal and solar energy, use of crop residues,
alcohol, biogas, wind, peat and papyrus. Uganda's geothermal potential has
not been studied since 1971 when a UNDP study concluded that it might be
about 450 MW. To promote the use of crop residues, a USAID-funded pilot
project for producing charcoal from coffee husks has been commissioned
recently near Jinja. Makerere University is involved in a number of
research programs in various forms of renewable energy: biogas production
and utilization; solar water heating for industrial and commercial applica-
tions; solar drying for food preservation; and solar crop drying. In



- 14 -
addition, the Forest Research Center is engaged in research on charcoal
production techniques. These modest programs were originally financed by
Overseas Development Administration (ODA, United Kingdom) and carried uut
with assistance from USAID and the Commonwealth Service Council.
35.       Imported Energy:  Petroleum.  Uganda imports all of its petroleum
requirements, either by refining crude through the Mombasa Refinery or by
direct purchases on the Kenyan and Middle East markets. White products are
transported to Nairobi by pipeline and on to Kampala by rail or road (more
than 90% were transported by road in 1982 compared to only 20% in the early
1970s). The six oil companies operating in Uganda maintain their own
storage facilities as well as retail outlets.  In line with the pattern of
economic activity, distribution and consumption of petroleum products are
concentrated around Kampala and Jinja. In 1983, the transport sector
accounted for 75% of consumption of petroleum products while the industrial
and domestic sectors consumed 14% and 11X respectively. The complex import
and marketing arrangements for petroleum products were reviewed in the
energy assessment report, and the alternatives recommended to minimize the
foreign exchange costs on these supplies were diversification of supply
sources, reduction in transport costs to the Ugandan border, development of
new supply routes and maintenance of a product stockpile.
36.       The Petroleum Desk was established in 1982 in the Bank of Uganda
as a subsector unit responsible for monitoring petroleum imports and
distribution and has been useful in assisting the Ministry of Power, Posts
and Telecommunmications (MPPT) with formulating policy recommendations.
The Government and the oil companies operating in Uganda have diversified
supply sources for petroleum products through purchases on the Middle East
market as well as processing crude oil through the Mombasa Refinery. A
second route through Tanzania in addition to the Kenyan route has been
tried and determined to be feasible. The minimum safety stockpile has been
increased from about two weeks consumption to the equivalent of four to
five weeks based on present consumption levels.
Petroleum Exploration
37.       An air-mag survey has been completed to identify prospective
areas of petroleum exploration as recommended in the assessment report, and
the initiation of a petroleum exploration program in the northwest is
anticipated. The Bank's proposed Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
would provide funds for gathering additional information on prospective
areas and would cover: (a) geological data gathering and field mapping
where necessary; (b) geophysical surveys; and (c) geochemical studies.  The
project, coordinating with petroleum exploration efforts in neighboring
countries, notably Zaire, also would assist in preparing a promotion report
that would be offered for sale to oil companies upon completion of the
geophysical survey work mentioned above.
Energy Demand and Supply
38.       Per capita energy consumption in Uganda is estimated to have been
0.35 toe (tons of oil equivalent) during 1980, of which only 0.06 toe was
commercial, i.e. petroleum products, electricity, and marketed woodfuels



- 15 -
exclusive of woodfuels gathered as a free good. This level of commercial
energy consumption is comparable to estimates for other low-income
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. In Uganda's case, the low level of
commercial energy consumption reflects not only the country's low per
capita income, but also the dominance of the subsistence sector and the
significant decline in the industrial and transport sectors during the
1970s. For the same reasons, energy consumption is concentrated in the
household sector and supplied primarily from woodfuels. Electricity, which
is the major area of government involvement in the energy sector, has never
supplied more than 4% of commercial energy consumption. In terms of
primary supply, in 1980, 88% of Uganda's commercial energy was domestically
produced from woodfuels, with the balance coming from imported petroleum
products.
39.       Since mid-1981 the Government has introduced a number of major
policy reforms, including devaluation of the Ugandan shilling and related
price adjustments. These measures have contributed towards a recovery in
economic performance over the past two years. The impact of the
Government's policy reforms (paragraph 7) on commercial energy consumption
has so far been constrained principally by higher energy prices. The
declining trend of commercial energy consumption since 1970 is now
reversing, and even a conservative forecast growth rate of commercial
energy demand averages 4.8% per year over the remainder of the 1980s.
Total imports of energy-related petroleum products increased at an average
annual rate of 3.6% between 1981 and 1983.
Energy Prices and Pricing Policy
40.       Petroleum Products.  Retail prices for all energy sources in
Uganda declined in real terms during the 1970s, contributed to a general
deterioration of efficiency in the sector, and escalated the smuggling of
petroleum products to neighboring countries. The assessment report
recommended adjustment of petroleum product prices in line with major
changes in the exchange rate to reflect their economic cost of supply.
This has been done regularly since late 1982 and after the price increases
announced in December 1984 petroleum prices at that time corresponded to
the economic cost of supply.
41.       Electricity.  Up to mid-1984, tariffs were among the lowest in
the world and far below the long run economic costs of supply despite three
50% increases since early 1982. In 1983 the average sales price to
resident consumers was equivalent to about US cents 1fKMh. However by the
time of appraisal of the proposed Project in mid 1984 the average price had
declined to the equivalent of US cents 0.5/kWh due to devaluation of the
Ugandan currency and it was determined that without an immediate tariff
increase of between 400% and 500%, the Ugandan Electricity Board (UEB)
would not be able to meet its operating costs and to service its debt for
the remainder of 1984 and 1985. The Government subsequently authorized and
UEB has put into effect as of August 1, 1984 tariffs that were considered
to be sufficient to meet these needs. The effect of this increase (430%)
and the need for further increases in 1986 and thereafter (or sooner if
inflation continues at its present level) are discussed further in
paragraphs 73 and 74 below. The tariff rate still remains low by world



- 16 -
standards, yielding an average revenue from Ugandan consumers equivalent to
US cents 1.5/KWh in late 1984. The tariff rate is also still well below
the long-run marginal cost of meeting increases in demand above existing
supply capacity in Uganda.  A firm estimate of the long-run marginal cost
will not be available until the ongoing Power Development Study on future
hydroelectric development in Uganda and the tariff study included in the
proposed project have been completed. However, a broad estimate of this
cost, equivalent to about US cents 5/KWh, was derived in the energy
assessment report. The bulk tariffs for supplies to Kenya (40% of total
power sales) are also far below economic costs.
42.       Woodfuel.  In the woodfuel subsector the Government's major
concern is the high level of retail prices for households, especially in
Kampala. The most effective way to reduce retail prices for woodfuels
would be to improve supply. The proposed project will begin to address
this with a fuelwood marketing survey and a household energy survey in
major towns, which would contribute to developing a strategy for the
subsector.
Power - Uganda Electricity Board (UEB)
43.     UEB, the implementing agency of the proposed project, supplies 2%
of Uganda's population with electricity principally from the Owen Falls
Hydroelectric Station. The country's average annual generation capability
is about 900 GWh. Due to the difficulties of the past decade, UEB has only
been able to carry out routine maintenance, and the present firm capacity
of the station is substantially below its rated firm capacity of 135 MW.
At the time of the appraisal mission in mid 1984, four of the ten units
were not in operation, and two of these four units require major overhaul
before they can be restored to service. The proposed rehabilitation
project includes measures to restore these units to service without which
UEB would be unable to fully meet the demand on its system in the near
future. UEB's organization and financial position are described in
paragraphs 70 to 76 below.
Transmission and Distribution
44.       The transmission network in Uganda consists of overhead
transmission lines and substations operated at 132, 66 and 33 KV, and is
supplied from the Owen Falls power station. The 132 KV lines connect Owen
Falls power station to Nkenda in the west (passing by Kampala), Masaka in
the southwest, Tororo in the east and Lira in the north. A 132 KV line
connects the Kenyan system to the Ugandan system at Tororo substation where
sales to Kenya are metered. The total length of the transmission and
distribution lines at the end of 1981 was 9,951 km. The total transmission
transformer capacity was 395 MVA.
45.       The transmission system is controlled from the control center
located at Owen Falls Power Station. As the system is supplied by one
source, any fault in the power station results in total loss of supply
throughout the country and to Kenya. Total loss of generation at the Owen
Falls power station has been experienced many times, although the duration



- 17 -
has never exceeded about two hours. The transmission system has no loops,
which reduces the security of supply to outlying areas. Some transmission
lines are very long and pass through unpopulated areas; thin makes them
difficult to maintain and operationally hazardous. The distribution
networks of the main towns such as Kampala and Tororo are reaching their
capacities and voltage drops affect the operation of equipment such as
motors and TV sets. Local overloading of the distribution systems occurs
due to rising domestic demand, including illegal connections. Total system
losses have averaged about 16% of UEB's billings to Ugandan consumers for
1981-83. UEB is presently instituting some measures to reduce this level
through reduction of unaccounted consumption apart from technical losses,
and the proposed project includes additional measures. The power factor is
low (about 65%). This situation has to be remedied before system demand
rises beyond the present rated level of system supply capability, estimated
to occur about 1988 or sooner if the generating units at Owen Falls Power
Station are not rehabilitated. After rehabilitation is completed, system
supply capability will meet forecast demand through 1991.
Power System Rehabilitation
46.       Due to scarcity of financial resources, both local and foreign,
UEB's construction and maintenance program has been very limited since
1968. Despite reasonable success in maintaining power supply, UEB has not
been able to undertake a major system reconstruction program. Assistance
for transmission system repairs, especially in areas hit by war, has been
obtained through grants under the Government's recovery program, totalling
US$6.9 million. However, these financial resources were not enough to
cover all rehabilitation requirements. UEB's need for vehicles,
communication equipment and spares for the system is so acute that a list
of emergency materials and equipment has been prepared for financing from
IDA's Second Reconstruction Credit and these goods are currently en route
to Kampala.
Connections to the UEB System and Access to Service
47.       The total number of connections in mid-1984 on UEB's billing
records was about 106,000. Of this total, connections to domestic
consumers accounted for about 75,000, commercial consumers about 30,200 and
industrial and other consumers about 800. However, these totals include a
category which UEB terms "nil consumers", which represents connections for
which there has been no consumption registered on meters on successive
readings. A review of the billing and connection records is included in
the proposed project.
48.       Analysis of UEB's billing records indicates that the active
connections to residential consumers totaled about 40,000 in mid-1984.
Assuming an average household size of six, the number of people having
access to electricity is estimated to be about 250,000, which is only 2% of
the total population. However, the proportion of the population in the
major urban centers that is connected to the UEB system ranges from 15 to
20%. Per capita consumption of electricity in 1982 was only 23 kWh, one of
the lowest levels in the world. In the late 1960s per capita consumption
of electricity was more than double the present level.



- 18 -
Sales to Kenya
49.       In 1955 Uganda contracted to supply Kenya with firm power of 45
MW for 50 years starting in 1958. This provides a needed source of foreign
exchange while providing low cost power to Kenya. This agreement was
modified in 1964, when the contracted supply of firm power was reduced to
30 MW and Kenya was committed to maintaining a minimum load factor of 90%.
Since 1981, Kenya has altered its pattern of demand on the Ugandan system.
During 1984, maximum Kenyan demand has reached 63 MW at night. There has
been a noticeable increase in Kenyan maximum demand from March 1984 due to
the effect of the present drought in Kenya on its hydropower production.
This practice, while never put on a formal basis, has worked to the
advantage of both countries. For Kenya, the use of Ugandan power limits
the drawdown of the country's steadily declining reservoir storage as well
as the need for costly thermal generation. For Uganda, the arrangement has
reduced the possibility of demand exceeding system supply capability during
the peak load periods, and it has allowed Uganda to earn sales revenue from
hydroelectric energy generated at nighttime that would otherwise be
spilled. Exports to Kenya have accounted for a substantial proportion of
UEB's revenues (44% in 1983), even though the contract price for this power
is very low.
50.       Ugandan power exports to Kenya remained within 260 and 300 GWh
per year between 1971 and 1978, except for 1976 when it dropped to 237 GWh,
thus showing remarkable consistency during a period of strained relations
between Uganda and Kenya. Currently imports from Uganda account for about
11% of total supply in Kenya and 44% of total output in Uganda. Power
exports to Kenya fluctuated substantially between 1978 and 1983, with the
lowest levels of 165 GWh and 186 GWh occurring in 1979 and 1981, and the
highest level of 300 GWh occurring in 1980 corresponding inversely with the
availability of energy from hydropower stations in Kenya.
Sales to Tanzania
51.       The Government has recently agreed to construct a transmission
link with a capacity of 16 MW (126 GWh/year) for export to Tanzania along
the west side of Lake Victoria as far as Bukoba. Financing is being
negotiated and the new transmission line and transformer station will be
completed during 1987 at the earliest. The demand on the Uganda system
from this region is forecast to be substantially below the transmission
line capacity for some years after commissioning. Uganda is negotiating a
bulk tariff with Tanzania and will use data from the Power Development
Study (paragraph 52) for this purpose.
Government Strategy in the Energy Sector and Power Subsector
52.       Government is presently implementing an economic rehabilitation
program and is addressing energy issues sectorwide (paragraphs 27 and 30).
In the case of power, the Government plans to develop the country's
advantage of abundant and relatively low-cost hydroelectric potential for
export to neighboring countries. The proposed project is designed as part
of the rehabilitation component of this strategy, together with the
emergency assistance provided ahead of this project. The groundwork for



- 19 -
development of Infrastructure is currently underway with the preparation of
a Power Development Study.  This study will determine the least-cost power
development program, taking into account Uganda's comparative advantage in
power production in the region, and it will identify the economically
optimum location of the next major hydroelectric development in Uganda.
Previous Bank Lending in the Power Sector
53.       Before the country's independence the Bank made a loan to UEB in
1961 of US$8.4 million equivalent (Loan 279-UG) for the expansion and
improvement of the transmission and distribution system and construction of
small hydroelectric and diesel plants and distribution networks to supply
isolated areas.
Bank Group Support for the Energy Sector
54.       After the resumption of lerding to Uganda in 1979/80, the Bank
Group initiated its support for the energy sector through the Energy Sector
Assessment Mission of October/November 1982 (paragraphs 27/28). The Bank
Group is currently assisting the energy sector through project lending and
through assistance from ESMAP. Energy efficiency improvements are being
attempted under the Industrial Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1248-UG of
1982, US$32 million). In addition, the overall upgrading of the country's
infrastructure, including airfields and roads, through the Second
Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 1252-UG of 1982 for US$70 million) and
the Third Highway Project (Credit No. 1445-UG of 1984 for US$58 million),
will facilitate petroleum exploration. The proposed project will assist
the electric power and forestry subsectors, by rehabilitating Uganda's
power generation, transmission and distribution system and through inven-
tories of forests and plantations to increase the supply of fuelwood.
ESMAP and Bank staff are collaborating in the preparation of a forestry
project. ESMAP has also prepared a proposal for expatriate petroleum
specialists to assist the new Energy Department in finding less expensive
means to procure and transport petroleum. It also is providing assistance
in institutional strengthening, energy efficiency, a preliminary industrial
energy audit, and a power loss reduction study (paragraph 30). In the
petroleum subsector, the Bank Group is encouraging the Government to
improve the efficiency of the sector with particular emphasis on regional
cooperation (paragraph 37).
Bank Strategy in the Energy Sector and Power Subsector
55.       The Bank has an important role to play in promoting policy and
institutional reform as well as providing additional resources for the
power sector. The Bank's role is to bring about improvements to power
system reliability and efficiency, to strengthen UEB's management, to
promote rational pricing policies and sound financial performance, to
ensure power system development in accordance with the least-cost option
and to assist Uganda in exploiting its comparative advantage in
hydroelectric resources by exporting more power. The Bank is also
following a strategy of encouraging the development of regional projects
where these projects have the potential to benefit all the countries
concerned. Funds (US$2 million) have been included in the loan to Kenya



- 20 -
for the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project (LN 2237-KE) for the
revision of the long-term development program, considering among other
options the future role of imports from neighboring countr4es for the
benefit of both importing and exporting countries. The Power Development
Study (paragraph 52) will provide a basis for discussions with neighboring
governments.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
56.       The proposed project was prepared by the Uganda Electricity Board
(UEB) with the assistance of consultants and the Association. It was
appraised in July-August 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled 'Uganda -
Second Power Project" (No. 5329-UG, dated February 28. 1985) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held
in London in February 1985. The Ugandan delegation was led by H. E.
Ambassador E. Kamuntu from the President's Office, Mdinistry of Finance, and
included officials from UEB. The main features of the credit and project
are given in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report.
57.       The proposed project together with the emergency assistance,
totaling US$6.9 million, being supplied from the Second Reconstruction
Credit (paragraph 46), is part of the Government's energy rehabilitation
strategy. The concept and the terms of reference for the feasibility study
of the proposed project were included in the assessment report (paragraph
27). On this basis, the Government requested IDA to consider providing
some of the funds needed to rehabilitate the Owen Falls hydroelectric
scheme and the associated transmission and distribution facilities. As a
result, a mission visited Uganda in July-August 1984, to appraise the
proposed project.
Objectives of the Project
58.       The primary objective of the proposed Second Power Project is to
prevent the development of a bottleneck in power supplies that would hinder
economic recovery in the medium term. This objective would be achieved
through uprating and rehabilitation of existing generation capacity at the
Owen Falls power station and the capacity of the existing transmission and
distribution system.  The proposed project also has the objective of
strengthening UEB's operational capability. Assistance would be given
under the proposed project for studying UEB's electricity tariff levels and
structure, planning and project implementation capability and training
needs. The project also contributes to future development of the power
system through inclusion of funds for carrying out engineering and design
work for the next hydroelectric project to be built in Uganda. Studies
which address the broader energy objectives of improving sector
organization and laying the groundwork for a household energy strategy
wGuld also be funded. The proposed project would establish the Bank's
position as a major participant in the dialogue on Uganda energy sector



- 21 -
development. The Bank's involvement in this project has enabled a firm
financing plan to be arranged by encouraging other donor agencies to
contribute substantital foreign exchange resources. The Bank will also use
Its involvement in the project to provide technical assistance in line with
the Bank's power sector strategy. The Bank will also assist the Government
and UEB to strengthen UEB's financial situation through implementation of
sound policies on tariffs and investment planning.
Project Justification
59.       The least cost power development program for Uganda is based on
indigenous hydroelectric resources, with rehabilitation of Owen Falls
Station as the first stage followed by a new hydroelectric station in
1991. A new hydroelectric station would not be a timely alternative to
rehabilitation of the Owen Falls Power Station, and interim sources of
power based on new thermal capacity would have to be installed to avoid
major disruption to the Ugandan economy before the commissioning of new
hydroelectric capacity. Rehabilitation of the Owen Falls Power Station
provides a much lower-cost source of power than a new hydroelectric
station. Thermal types of generation capacity are also much higher-cost
options than rehabilitation of Owen Falls Station.
Project Description
60.       The main features of the proposed project are:
(a) For the Owen Falls Power Station: structural repairs to the dam
and power house; rehabilitation of the ten turbo-generator units;
rehabilitation of electrical and mechanical equipment such as
main cables, switchgear and control equipment, auxiliaries,
intake and draft tube equipment, and service gates;
(b) Transmission and Distribution works include: reconductoring and
cable repairs, replacing wooden poles and brush clearance for
overhead lines; rehabilitation of underground networks; rehabili-
tation of substations; uprating of the 66 KV line between Kampala
and Jinja and the strengthening of the lines between Kampala and
Nkenda and between Tororo and Lira; and supplying tools and
equipment for maintenance and repairs;
(c) Supporting these components are provisions for: the purchase of
vehicles for maintenance and repair services; refurbishment and
rehabilitation of electrical and mechanical workshops; provision
of a computer; rehabilitation of UEB's training center, opera-
tional buildings and staff housing; engineering and consulting
services for supervision of construction; and consultancy for
carrying out studies of (i) the tariff structure, (ii) training
needs, (iii) the billing and collection system, and (iv) engi-
neering work for the next hydroelectric project; and
(d) Technical assistance in the form of studies for the Ministry of
Power, Posts and Telecommunications, which wGuld focus: on the



- 22 -
formation and operation of the Energy Department; on a forest and
plantation inventory and on a fuelwood marketing survey as well
as a household energy survey in the major towns of Uganda.
Implementation
61.       Despite the past constraints mainly in obtaining spares, tools
and vehicles, UEB has been relatively effective in providing power.
However, UEB has not undertaken any major construction since building the
Owen Falls Power Station. Therefore it is proposed that the project
include engineering and consulting services for design and equipment
specification works as well as for construct.ion supervision for both the
power plant and the transmission and distribution systems.
62.       UEB has enough sk'lled staff to undertake the major tasks of this
project, but will require contractors for civil works on the dam and power
house at Owen Falls and for the uprating of the 66 KV transmission line
between Kampala and Owen Falls and the strengthening of the lines between
Kampalr mnd Nkenda and between Tororo and Lira. UEB would provide the
labor for rehabilitation of the electrical and mechanical equipment at Owen
Falls under the supervision of the equipment and material suppliers as well
as the consulting engineers. The transmission and distribution system
rehabilitation works would be undertaken by UEB personnel under close
supervision of consulting engineers. The consultants would provide
technical assistance in planning, procurement, design and construction
standards, project implementation and control. A Project Coordinator would
be assigned by UEB to supervise the total project. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with UEB for establishing and filling this post by
June 30, 1985 (Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement). The proposed
project includes funds for implementing the findings of the stores and
workshop study. An initial emergency supply of vehicles have been financed
from the IDA Second Reconstruction Credit. Additional vehicles and tools
are included in the project. The successful bidder for the turbo-generator
equipment will provide erection supervision; the successful bidder on
communication equipment will provide the necessary training. The project
will require five years to be completed, because the rehabilitation of the
ten generating units at Owen Falls has to be carried out one at a time in
order to minimize the reduction of in-service generation capacity.
Cost Estimates
63.       The project cost (net of interest on financing required, US$14.9
rillion) is estimated to total about US$59 million of which about US$49
million (about 84%) is in foreign exchange. The total financing require-
ment, including interest during construction, is estimated to be about
US$73 million. The local costs of about US$21 million include about US$0.8
million for duties and taxes, primarily on vehiCles, tools and equipment.
UEB is exempt from taxes and duties on power system equipment. The project
cost estimate is based on current quotations from various equipment
manufacturers and contractors in Europe. The base costs are expressed in
January 1985 price terms. Physical contingencies of 15% for civil works
and 10% for equipment have been included. Price contingencies reflect the
estimated international inflation rates. A detailed breakdown of the



- 23 -
estimated Project Cost is in the Credit and Project Suwvary at the
beginning of this report.
Financing Plan
64.       The local costs of the project (about US$21 million equivalent)
would be funded by UEB (about US$20 million including interest during
construction of US$12 million), using resources generated from its opera-
tions, and by CDC and IDA (totalling about US$1.4 million equivalent). For
the total foreign cost component, estimated at about US$52 million equiva-
lent, IDA would make available about US$28 million equivalent. ODA would
finance on a parallel basis a total of UKEII million (US$12.0 million
equivalent) for specifically identified British-supplied Project components
(consulting engineering for the Project and rehabilitation of Owen Falls
generating units). The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) would
also make available a total of USS13.0 million equivalent for the proposed
Project. The prospective financing plan is thus as summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. IDA funds
would be onlent to UEB for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5
years at an interest rate of 10% per annum. The Government would finance
the interest requirement during the five years of project ,mpEimentation,
and UEB would bear the exchange risk. ODA's terms for UEB would be the
same.  CDC's contribution of US$13 million would be provided to UTEB for a
term of 20 years including a grace period on principal repayment of 5
years. CDC would finance the interest requirement during the five years of
project implementation and would include this requirement in the principal
amount (US$13 million equivalent) of the loan. UEB would bear the exchange
risk.
Procurement
65.       All procurement would be evaluated by th2 consulting engineers
prior to submission to the Central Tender Board of the Ugandan Government
so that UEB would be responsible for bid evaluation and contract award in
consultation with the consulting engineer. All major components of the
project which would be financed from the proceeds of the IDA credit would
be procured in accordance with :ne Bank Group's standard procurement
guidelines.  The minor civil works on transmission installation will be
performed by UEB staff. However, the civil works for the training center
and the local offices reconstruction (at Mbarara and at Masaka) and UEB
staff housing would be cart.ed out by local contractors on the basis of
local competitive bidding, as this work would be of no interest to inter-
national bidders. The consulting engineering services for the rehabilita-
tion of the intake gates, turbines and generators and associated equipment
at Owen Falls funded by ODA, would be let on the basis of negotiated
contracts. Negotiatee contracts with the original suppliers of the turbo-
generator units would achieve the best contract conditions for UEB in terms
of price, equipment performance and contract program. The CDC funds would
be made available to UEB in accordance with joint cofinancing arrangements
with the Bank. Thus all CDC-financed items would be procured in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines.



- 24 -
Disbursement
66.       The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of five years and
used towards the foreign costs of (i) the Owen Falls Power Station: US$5.4
million; (ii) the transmission and distribution system: US$17.5 million;
(iii) vehicles, a computer, training facilities, and technical assistance:
US$4.5 million; and (iv) technical assistance local costs: US$1.4
million. ODA funds would be used to finance the total foreign cost and of
the turbo-generator work and the associated engineering. CDC funds would
be used for financing 30.5% of foreign costs of all items financed by IDA
plus the total foreign cost of interest during construction on their loan.
67.       The disbursement is scheduled at a quicker rate than the standard
profile for power projects in the Eastern Africa Region because most equip-
ment would be procured within the first few years in order to be available
for the transmission and distribution rehabilitation works. This plus the
need for initial payments are the reasons for the relatively large dis-
bursement in 1985. The project does not include the usual construction
of new facilities, and all foreign currrency expenditures are for the
purchase of equipment and erection materials. The project is scheduled to
be completed by June 30, 1990, and disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1990.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
68.       The records and reports necessary to monitor progress of the
project, its evaluation, and the preparation of a project completion report
were agreed upon during negotiations, as were monitoring guidelines for
project implementation.
Risks and Environment
69.       The major project risk is the ability of the Ugandan Government
to maintain secure working corditions for project implementation and
subsequent maintenance. There are certain areas in the country in which
the rehabilitation work on t'he transmission and distribution systems could
be delayed and even suspended due to difficulties experienced by the local
authorities in maitirai.iing public security. Most problems have occurred in
the area located about ten to fifteen miles northwest of Kampala. No
problems are anticipated at Owen Falls, the locale for most of the project
works. Where necessary, contracts will contain provisions to protect
contractors against losses resulting from security failures. The physical
environment would remain unaffected by the Project.
UEB's Management, Staffing and Training
70.       UEB has remained a relatively effective institution during the
last ten to fifteen years of national disorder. It has however become
accustomed to performing a limited program under close supervision of top
management. An in-depth study of UEB's organizational requirements is
necessary to initiate changes needed for the management of the proposed
project and also in the long term. This study will be financed through the
Bank's Second Technical Assistance Credit (No. 1434). During negotiations



- 25 -
agreement was obtained on implementing the findings of the organizational
study as soon as these findings have been determined and agreed by the
Government, UEB, and IDA (Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement). The
project also includes a new computer for processing UEB's billings and
collections. However, a complete in-depth study of billings and
collections procedures is necessary before a new computerized system is
implemented. The project includes funds for consulting services for this
study. During negotiations agreement was reached that UEB should maintain
an agreed relationship between outstanding accounts receivable and annual
operating revenues [Section 4.02 (c) of the Project Agreement].
71.       UEB has a staff of about 2,600, of which about 150 are
professional level, 650 are intermediate technical level and 1,800 are
junior, skilled and unskilled workers. With the exception of the chairman/
managing director, all staff are Ugandan. For the immediate future,
including implementation of the proposed project, the staffing situation is
satisfactory, but an enlarged and upgraded training program and rehabilita-
tion of the training center at Owen Falls will be required. A study of
UEB's training needs up to the year 1995 is included in the project and
would complement the Power Development Study. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached on the study's completion date of June 30, 1986 and a
program for its subsequent implementation (Section 2.06 of the Project
Agreement).
UEB's Financial Posilion
72.       UEB's financial ratios at December 31, 1984, based on the current
estimates, appears to be acceptable with a current ratio of 2.1 and a debt-
equity ratio of 39/61 (historical) and 3/97 (revalued). However, current
assets include customer accounts receivable balances which reflect about
five months of sales. Therefore UEB's current position at December 31,
1984 was not strong but is expected to improve due to the 430% tariff
increase effected on August 1, 1984 (paragraph 41).
73.       Inflation in Uganda which appeared to be diminishing and coming
under control in recent years after a long period of high double digit
gnitude, again soared after the implementation of the overall wage and
salary increase in July 1984. It is now anticipated that the inflation
*            rate for 1984 will have reached about 60% on an annualized basis and that
the level of inflation in the immediate future will be difficult to predict
with accuracy. Therefore, for the purposes of this report, future operat-
ing results and financial positions of UEB have been projected in USS
terms. Thus the financial performance shown in these projections reflect
only the anticipated international inflation in United States currency and
tariff increases shown in these projections must be augmented by increases
relative to the movement of the USh against the USS to derive the corres-
ponding tariff rate in Ugandan currency terms, assuming that exchange
fluctuation will be consistent with local inflation. Additional correc-
tions will have to be made where there is a lack of consistency with local
inflation. If inflation remains near the 1984 level during the project
implementation period, significant tariff increases will be required to
compensate for the related movement in the exchange rate.



- 26 -
74.       Based on these USS projections, UEB would have positive earnings
throughout the 1985-1991 period with rates of return based on a revalued
asset-base of 1% in 1985, 5% in 1986, 6% in 1987, 7% in 1988 and 1989 and
8% thereafter. This performance anticipates tariff increases in US$ terms
of 50% in 1986, 24% in 1987, 11% in 1989 and 16% in 1990. The tariff
increase percentages for 1986 and 1987 apply to Ugsndan sales; the percent-
ages for 1989 and 1990 apply to all sales including the bulk sales to Kenya
and Tanzania. Revenues in 1991 based on this tariff program would be US
cents 3.37/KWh for Ugandan services and US cents 2.77/KWh overall compared
with the preliminary estimate for a long-run marginal cost of about US
cents 5/KWh. During negotiations, agreement was reached that UEB will
achieve these annual rates-of-return on average net revalued plant in
operation and that this measure of performance will be based on the US$
equivalent of UEB's operating performance and financial position [Section
4.03 (a) and (d) of the Project Agreement|. UEB will review the adequacy
of its tariffs to meet these requirements annually by June 30 and, if
necessary, adjust its tariff structure or level accordingly [Section 4.03
(b) and (c) of the Project Agreement]. In addition, there will be
quarterly reviews and, if necessary, appropriate increases of UEB's tariffs
to take account of local inflation [Section 4.04 (a) of the Project
Agreement].
75.       The performance measures detailed in the preceding paragraph will
require special financial reporting quarterly and annually, respectively,
showing UEB's operations in US dollar equivalents and reflecting the
revaluation of UEB's fixed assets [Section 4.03 (d) of the Project
Agreement], and showing the results of UEB's quarterly review and related
tariff action within one month of the close of the calendar quarter
[Section 4.04 (b) of the Project Agreement].
76.       The financial projections exclude the requirements for a second
hydroelectric generating station since the decision on the size and plans
for its financing have not been taken. It would appear that construction
of this facility should begin about 1987 if it is to bE completed by 1991
when present demand forecasts show a need for additional generating
capacity. Higher revenues and rates of return than those reflected in the
projections will probably be required to provide at least the local fund
component for the financing of the facility. This situation will be
initially monitored through the application of the debt service covenant.
Therefore, during negotiations agreement was obtained that UEB will consult
with the Association on the development of the next hydroelectric station
and UEB would not incur any new debt without IDA's agreement unless
historical twelve-month net revenues of UEB cover future maximum debt
service, including that related to the new debt, at least 1.5 times
(Sections 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and 4.06 of the Project
Agreement).
Tariff - Bulk Supply to Kenya and Tanzania
77.       In the past, when Uganda had substantial surplus capacity, sales
to Kenya at even lower rates than the present levels were justified as
extra income for power supplied at zero marginal cost, and these sales were
an important source of income to UEB and foreign exchange to Uganda.



- 27 -
However, when the demand on the Ugandan system surpasses existing
generating capacity, which is projected to occur about 1991 if this
proposed rehabilitation project is implemented, power supplies to Kenya
will have an opportunity cost for Uganda equal to the long-run marginal
cost of installing new capacity, estimated at about US$0.05/KWh in 1984
prices. UEB has been discussing the level of the Kenya bulk supply tariff
with the Kenyan authorities and anticipates another increase in the near
future, since even if the tariff is increased to reflect the cost of
installing new capacity (paragraph 74), Ugandan power would remain a
low-cost source of supply to Kenya. Kenya has unofficially indicated its
willingness to review the situation. Formal discussions are scheduled to
be initiated when the supporting data are available from the Power
Development Study.
78.       In 1983 the Government agreed to export 16 MW (126 GWh/year) to
Tanzania along the west side of Lake Victoria as far as Bukoba, and UEB has
agreed to construct the transmission line to connect with the Tanzanian
transmission facilities to provide this service. This construction is
unlikely to be completed before sometime in 1987 and revenue from this
source has been reflected in the financial projections beginning in 1988.
For projection purposes the revenues from this service and from that
provided to Kenya have been estimated from 1988 reflecting a rate which
approximates 50% of the average retail rate for service to Ugandan
consumers. An additional increase in the Ugandan tariffs of 25% would be
required in 1987 to compensate for the additional revenue projected from
Kenyan sales if the 520% increase reflected in the export tariff cannot be
negotiated. Therefore, the timing and amount of bulk tariff increases
which can be obtained will influence what increases might be required to
comply with the earnings requirements detailed in paragraph 74.
UEB's Proposed Financing Plan and Terms
79.       During the project implementation period j1985-1990), UEB's
construction program anticipates expenditures of US$97.6 million including
interest financed of US$14.9 million. About 71% or US$69.4 million of the
total construction program during this period relates to the proposed
project. Internal generation would cover the direct local cost of the
project construction, the interest requirement on the project debt after
the interest financing periods have expired, the debt repayment require-
ments on the project debt after the grace periods have expired, and the
debt servicing requirements on all other debt. Internal generation after
covering debt services produces 39% of the funds required for construction
during the project implementation period, which is reasonable.
Future Operations and Financial Performance
80.       The projected results of operation for UEB in USS equivalent for
the 1984-1991 period indicate that UEB's financial performance and
condition would be satisfactory throughout the period. This performance is
based on the estimated average annual rate of increase in sales of about
7%, and the proposed tariff increase program in addition to the increase
made effective August 1, 1984 and the revision of the bulk tariff in 1988.



- 28 -
Internal Rate of Return
81.     The internal rate of return (IRR) of UEB's present rehabilitation
investment program, of which the proposed rehabilitation project is the
major component, is estimated to be 16.7%. The IRR is derived from
comparison of the economic costs of the program with the economic benefits
in terms of demand that will be served from the rehabilitated facilities.
The estimated IRR does not include investments required to meet major
increases in demand, specifically a new power station. Benefits are
defined by incremental energy demand served by reference to the case in
which the rehabilitation program is not undertaken, valued at the average
tariff yield prevailing in January 1985. At the tariff level required to
meet UEB's financial objectives (paragraph 74), the IRR is estimated to be
21.6X. Both estimates of IRR are above the estimated value Eor the
opportunity cost of capital in Uganda (12x).
82.     A firm estimate of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of meeting
increases in demand for power is not yet available. A preliminary estimate
of the LRMC is about US cents 5/KWh. The present tariff yield (equivalent
to US cents 1.4/KWh in January 1985) is thus much lower than LRMC.
Government policy should be to raise tariffs in accordance with LRMC before
the next hydroelectric station is commissioned. Furthermore, valuation of
benefits according to the present low average tariff gives a minimum
estimate of IRR since it excludes the value of consumer surplus. Since the
increment of energy demand under consideration constitutes a large
proportion of the total demand in some years, the element of consumer
surplus is a substantial source of benefit for the project. The mission
has derived a broad estimate of the value of the forecast consumption in
terms of consumer willingness-to-pay for power from the public system of
equivalent to about US cents 9.6/KWh, which is well above the LRMC of
supply and, therefore, illustrates the scope Government has for tariff
reform.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Uganda
and the Association, the Project Agreement between the Association and the
Uganda Electricity Board, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately.
84.       The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and UEB and the execution of the CDC Loan Agreement between CDC and UEB and
of the CDC Guarantee Agreement between CDC and the Borrower, and the
fulfillment of all conditons for the commencement of disbursements from the
CDC Loan, would be special conditons of effectiveness for the proposed
credit [Section 6.01 (a) and (b) of the Development Credit Agreement].
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III to
this report.



- 29 -
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 28, 1985



- 30-                                       ANNX I
Page 1 of 5
TA S L r  3A
UCANDA                 - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA SHEEr
UGawM                                RERNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERiAGE) la
HOST                (MoT  RECENT CBTIATE) lb
RICCNT       LOW INCOME AFRICA        MIDDLE INCOKM
9b0/b     1970/b    ISTLATC/b        SOUTH OP SAHARA      AFRICA S. o0 SAHARA
AREA (TJUSh1  SQ. RE)
TOTAL                               236.0       236.0        236.0
AGRICULTURAL                         89.3        99.8        107.6
CWP PER CAPITA (US9)                   100.0       160.0        Z30.0             249.1                   1112.9
m   caMUscu P  CWAITAi
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EqUIVALrNT)        27.0        58.0         23.0              62.3                    529.0
POPULATIO  AM vnIAL mUnmcs
POPULATtONHNID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    7286.0      9758.0      13451.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         5.2         8.0          8.7              19.2                    29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)         ..          ..         24.7
STATLONARY POPULATION (HILL)         ..          ..          8.5
POPULATION MOWENTIS                  ..          ..          2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Di.                        30.9        41.3         55.2              32.5                     55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             81.6        97.8        121.1             119.2                    111.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-l6 YRS                          43.3        44.4         45.0              45.6                     45.4
15-64 YRS                          53.6        52.6         51.6              5l.5                     51.7
65 AND A5OVE0                       3.1         3.3          3.3               2.9                      2.9
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               2.8         2.9          2.7               2.8                      2.8
URUA                                7.3         7.1          3.4               6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PrER THOUS)        49.4        49.9         50.1              48.6                    47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THODS)         21.2        18.4         18.7              17.7                     15.2
GROSS REPRoDUCTION RATE               3.4         3.4          3.0               3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOOS)            ..         3.3         16.1 /c
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)           .           ..
FOOD AIID Im0TRrI
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(I9*9-71-100)                       107.0        99.0         86.0              85.8                    91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       96.0        98.0         80.0              86.4                     98.2
PRoTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           51.0        55.0         50.0              49.9                     56.7
or WHICH ANAKAL AND rULSE          23.0        24.0         27.0 /d           38.3                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          28.0        17.0         22.0              23.8                    38.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT nIRTH (YEARS)        43.0        46.8         46.6              48.4                    52.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER1 THOUS)      138.9       113.2        120.0             117.5                   102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                                *-        22.0         35.0 /c           21.8                     35.6
URBAN                                *-        88.0        100.0 Ic           61.5                     54.1
RURAL                                ..        17.0         29.0 /;_          14.2 IC                 27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        76.0         94.0 /c           32.0
URBAN                                ..        84.0         82.0 Ic           69.2
RURAL                                ..        76.0         95.0 Ic           24.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          15050.0      9160.0 Ie  26810.0 /d         27477.8                  11948.3
POP. PER NUIRSINC PERSON          1030.0       5120.0 7    4180.0  d          3396.2                  2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             750.0       640.0        610.0 /c         1089.0                    986.9
URBAN                              80.0        80.0        100.0 Ic          395.2                    368.7
RURAL                             1710.0     1820.0       1600.0 Ie         3094.0                   012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            .-       154.1
BNOC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 *         4.8
URMN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (: OF OWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URmAN                                ..          ..
NURAL                                                     ..                 ..



-31 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TA I L E  3A
UGANDA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                                 R    CRENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES) 3I
HOST                 (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT        LOW INCOME AFRICA        MIDDUL INCOlM
1960/b     1970/b     ESTIMATE/b        SOUTH OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT IRATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    49.0         39.0         54.0               69.2                     91.0
MALE                     65.0         48.0         62.0               78.8                     90.5
FEMALE                   32.0         31.0         46.0              57.6                      73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     3.0          4.0          5.0               13.1                     17.4
MALE                      4.0          6.0          7.0               17.6                     23.7
FEKALE                    3.0         2.0           3.0               8.3                      14.8
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)            11.6         7.4          3.7                7.2                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             31.0         34.0         34.0              46.1                      38.6
SECONDARY                           18.0        20.0          21.0 /I            25.9                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                25.1 /f       ..         52.3               44.3                     35.6
COrnS rICH
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            3. 5         3.0           ..                3.8                     20. 7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          12.4         23.6         21.8              41.9                     100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAID FOP              0.1          1.4          5.8 /j            2.0                      18.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               7.3         8.5          1.6 bIA            5.4                     17.2
CINEMIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     0.3          ..           0.1 Id             1.4                      0.3
LAR ORMC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           3255.0       4187.0       5427.0
FEtALE (PERCENT)                    35.1         34.6         33.6              36.5                      33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.0         86.0         83.0               77.4                     57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.0         5.0           6.0               9.8                      17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               44.7         42.9         40.3               41.0                     36.3
MALE                                58.8         56.8         54.1               52.1                     47.6
FEKALE                              31.0         29.3         26.9               30.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1          1.2                1.2                      1.4
IN1  DISTIBUTIONI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        20.0 th
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         46.6 l.
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         6.2 /&.
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         16.6 /h
PV     TARGLT GROIIPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..              168.3                    525.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..            ..              90.8                     249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
4                  LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..            ..             107.7                     477.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..         87.0 Id           65.0                     186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POTERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                 ..          ..            ..               34.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..            ..              65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/s   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 19SO" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  "Date for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic   1975; /d 1977; /e  Registered, not all practicing in the country; If Ages 16 and over; kj 1979; lh African
population only.
JUNE. 1984



- 32-                                                                                      ANN EX I
Page 3 of 5
ML IJYtrJ99L"a_AqrM!5n!P
tate.   iIihaUhits       .Ii..ii                     Z ..-.*asuII' Isti. i.-  a...' ssh,smss   s                        .slih...mmmibilt  leah.  .tei is,  i..  -i us, haisssm55
Nslt    ae.   Stt s.   Sih  ....5 .-d.ti             ........ sg-a s...s Sidi  les.Sn                    id tdi   es          tg.  h                         lia       0  salss
sst.sa   I  tisit..Sat5iSN sn  si  iagm.sa  ..ss tlisi   it..                    s  it.  taA.m. m.dms  5'.  -'..  isI                               . a         m      _st  - ii  nm.., I
ifA  lihasass  ...t..t                                                      P.~~~~~jstl ~~555.r. tt.jtt  isa~~   .......m ..e.iia    amiaie    m.tts
Tsti-tse   sei .   -mitsa.-dsrssallla.d                     .      sa.                          aiys.mrea;.smIlJlas.adt.t.-h..sisiii.iii.ai
-5...  l-A -Isa         N                4psmima i..Iii
ft.1 ..... ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~mtiaiilhd
~  i apiatCtj-   apm.tisimees                         tms     si. pss,esibeIs .st.ea    5.1    asiSM.tit.dmatilid
.5 t  am   55.  essisis  setsed   s asld  taC   iteslttet.eitmssst,tst.t Imemita rssai.  titmm.l..is                            ...h.mmasm    -idee-dlt.-I.s
stas.  ti5  Sd  tS)ds..                                                             a  i lss   asmIisIma.  *ssimssals  ieldimgtiltisli   .eiils
N    A. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,   t   a   a-idd                                   es    l.pise   h i.mt-md   am    .
dl-  ...             -ts   epi.m  N.spi.   .isc.intsdai  em. amtt...   iemta    a     dt..s                                                                             a  h         is
N'-       .tm.a       .     smitsss    sat-a.assassisis.ms m.i..s-.is                                                                         spsaeaamset
ae    em.it NIa.m.mim    is..5   m    qtses-                            pt,tat                            i.i        ieaseasied.mitmmis
itha   is    Se  dam.                                                        Ietst-.ijmme   tStmsi'    -ma  -taas   i eatss.si  mess dattiia
iThem..pmisl.  istist.  ISa i a  ms--asi had.
assittgims. sail ems.. hilitsitimi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN
a1itI~~~~wm.iiassITtm~~~~~.s-se. S  ~~~~~s..tte'.  I. '55.1. tel5  sas tea;  mast-itt.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ NI
pshas.-   msist~.. ssi.imtej    tet...ta                                           sad                           j.sis.ss r        misatel![m.tma  satei ami
sssim.-setrias.ties.tum.edlle:sms.ihamamssh.1d5.N .m.smmssstaNi.-mias
reee.trea.mesItssemi. it    ri. i. tm  s   ems. .i     Nsi                             a.-. l.ma-mats.
tee.,   mapaicaisi-i  .amm  'h       ....s.. hee.  .i..a.l. mi..iiai   atmit   .itesie.ime.
.asem5    Asti.  maieiimi . s-ad-mA sese   ises  sad  se    est'
tiheat.. aam-t-.taeeae. is.mit-.msstr~ islhssseulad tea...ihasa-t-
telistes  s .atiii  sdmatiRi,ms.si.,mam.stsi.sM~~mt   a  me.    ei.
tiii..i  . a                  A.ii e    isaat  amts5.-IS    a-pi  t   amsm                                    ri ~ ~               tr s astiei-s-.                        m.el    Mi.'
tat. --ua   -tsa     seaL.               -Ne iaed. a..mse-atutimmmmi..   t t.7l sas r.     tssst.i- ai.                                                                          
seahss.smassiasets    iIt=es    aa  ta                                                                         .mse.t.is.aatm ss..aetl.as.-m dssais
tstss-iarlat.               eaie   ssilia   i.h  iiii sN   taas                                                    s. aisiasisdi a mm   s.ia  mrtst-d-l eAi



-33-                                              ANE I
7Tatf 5
BDMMEEEL nM   D    - UGf
GNP PE CAPTrA DN 1983 al - US$220
GRD6S NATIPQ1      D N 1983 b/ d/                        RKIAL RA3E OF CM    (Z, Ccnstant Prices)
US$ Mlllion    Z               1970-75   1975-81    1982 d/    1983 d/
GNP at Market Prioes          8,058     100.0               -         -3.2      8.2         5.8
Grko  Dbmestic InNestmet        689       a6              -11.9       -4.7      27.1        -
Grnes Naional Savng             433       5.4             -16.9      -10.4     44.7         -
Owrent Acwut alnce            -151      -1.9                .          .
Export of Coods, NFS            379       4.7             -11.3       -7.3     36.0         3.9
Tmport of Goobds, NFS           509       6.3              -9.2       -5.9      3.1        5.0
WILE  IUED DN 1983 (At 1983 Prices) b/ ct d/             GOVERINM   FINANE
Centmal Goverment
US$ MiUlln     Z                                            (UShi Millin)    (Z of GCP)
1982/83 d/   1983 d/ 1971/72
AgricultLue                   5,853      76.0            Ojrrenrt Pecelpts                  52,822       4.2      13.5
i&Nistry                       307        4.0             wrrent. Expenditure              43,871        3.4      13.5
Services                      1,539      20.0           QCrrent Surplus                     8,954        0.7       -
Toral                       7,699     100.0            Capital E5qenditure                 8,817       0.7       8.6
ZOE:, aErr AND PRIM                      1979       1980      1981     1982 d/    1983 d/
(lSh Million Qitst.uXIbI Fad Period)
Maw, Supply                            13,166      17,435    30,849    38,512     54,422
Ba*k Credt to Goverrment                9,485     14,848    29,332    34,111      40,868
Beank Credit to Other Sectors           3,371      5,951     11,459    21,371     35,186
1979       1985      1981    1982 d/    1983 d/
-Percentage or Ix Nex  ers      -
Fbney as Z of GDP                        11.9        8.0        6.9       4.1       4.3
General Prioe lndex (1966 - 100) e/     1,702      3,527      6,800    13,104    16,616
Aexmal perentr   chaigus in
General Price Index                   85.6      107.2       92.8      92.5      26.8
Bark Credit to PEblic Sector             30.1       56.5       97.5      16.3      19.8
Bark Credit tD PriVate Sector             4.7       76.5       92.6      86.5      64.6
a/ Calcjlated by the same con'ersion techique as the World Bark Atlas (adlusting for the overvaled exchag rate but not for
ay urderrecordirg of 'eado  transactios).
b/ GNP, Tnvestment and Sviins calculated at the offrial windwcm earchige rate. The esstes of GNP at mrket prices are
therefore bigber tha the per capita 21P estimate (which is adjusted for rhe overvalued exche  rate) times population.
c/  Up-to-dare figures on enployat and producrivity are unavailable.
dl Estlates.
Z/ MP deflator.
Nbt aplicable.
Decadber 11, 1984



- 34                                                AN       I
Pw  5 of 5
EMND  C IEVE'W? D.  - IZUGNDi
BALRIE  OF A PMXS                                                           .         M1WNIE EXO    (AFVwaW 198D-83)
US$tia   Xd/
198D      1981      1982a/   1983/
(US$ Millo)                    Coffee                           315       96.4
Cotton                             5         1.5
Ecports of Goods, NS                        332        250       354         379      Tea                                 1        0.3
ImpDrts of Goods, WS                       -572      -508       -512        -509      Other Exports                       6        1.8
Retource Gap (deficit - -)                 -20        -258      -158        -130       Sub-Total                        327      100.0
Factor Services ad Tramfews (net) b/         -9          3       -20         -21      Adjusasts el                      -14       4.3   w
Balanc  on Current Accmo                   -248       -256      -160        -151        Total                           313       95.7
official Grants                              93        106        91          79
Public M6LT Loao (net)                       83         8         64          27      EERUMC L DEHr, I  EBR 31, 1983
Disbursewents                            (135)       100      (121)        (94)                                         lSS Million
Amortization                             (-52)      (-92)     (-67)       (-67)
Use of Fund Credit                           27        125        92         101      Public Debt, incl. &uarmeed             661 a/ f/
other Items n.e.i. (net)                   -107         85       -66         -22     N?bGuarnteid Private Debt
Overmll Balance of Paymerits               -154        61         12          20      Total Outstadiig and Disbused           661
Resves (eld year)                             4         25        60          88      NEr MU  SEVIC  RK'I0 ER  1983 I/
Paynmnt Arras (end year)                    257       217          -           -                                                   t
Petroleum IWorts                             124       116       101         105      Public Debt, incl. Ciranteel                38.7
Pecroleti Expors                              -          -         -                  Non-Guarnt.eei  Private Debt
Toa  OutstandliT and Disbumed               38.7
RALE O  EXC lANZ c/                                                                   IN)D/MIA IEDI)IC (Dec. 1. 1983) (US$ MULim)
*" f/ MI
Anaml Averges
198D      1981      1982      1983         Outstadirg and Disbsed              37.5     123
US$1.00- U.Sh6                             7.4      50.0       94.0    156.9          Undisbursed                          -       212
USh 1.00 - US cents                       13.5       2.0        1.1       0.6         Outstanding, incl. Undisbursol      37.5     335
a.l Estiates.
b/ Eldes officLal grts.
c/ At window am. The wiTdow-wo  xharge rate was USh 270 - US$1 at the enl of April 1983.
d   2    un aidjusted uerdundise exorts.
e/ Includes errors and arission, ard adjussents for valuation, coaeage aid timlng for 198D-&.
f/ Includes Uganda's notitml shre (262) of EAC loan, but excludes Itf.
i Debt service paynEnts (inclhding 1W obligsations) as a percerage of cports of gods and services.
Not savilable.
Deceiber 11, 1984



35                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1984
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                 Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                  8.40   120.531/
1077-UG   1981    Uganda   Technical Assistance                       8.00       2.44
1110-UG   1981    Uganda   Water Supply Engineering                  9.00        2.99
1228-UG   1982    Uganda   Phosphate Engineering                     4.00        0.53
1248-UG   1982    Uganda   Industrial Rehabilitation                35.00       31.40
1252-UG   1982    Uganda   Second Reconstruction Program            70.00       21.57
1328-UG   1983    Uganda   Agricultural Rehabilitation              70.00       60.59
1329-UG   1983    Uganda   Third Education                          32.00       27.66
1367-UG   1983    Uganda   Posts and Telecommunications
Rehabilitation                        22.00       10.47
1434-UG   1984    Uganda   Second Technical Assistance              15.00       14.06
1445-UG   1984    Uganda   Third Highway                            58.00       58.00
1474-UG   1984    Uganda   Third Reconstruction Program             50.00       50.00
Total                                             8.40   493.53      279.71
of which has been repaid                        8.40     2.77
Total now outstanding                             0.00   490.76
Amount sold:                       17.50
of which has been repaid         17.50
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    0.00   490.76 1/
Total undisbursed                                                    279.71
1/  Includes exchange adjustment.
Note:  Two further credits have been provided.  The Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (Credit No. 1510-UG for US$28.0 million) was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 19, 1984 and was signed on November 28, 1984. The
Agriculture Development Project (Credit No. 1539-UG for US$10.0 million) was
approved by the Executive Directors on January 8, 1985 and was signed on
February 12, 1985.



- 36 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
AS OF SEPTEMK.R 30, 1984
Fiscal                                                            Amount In US$ million
Year         Obligor                   Type of Business         Loan    Equity    Total
1965     Mulco Textiles, Ltd.          Textiles and Fibers      2.80     0.71       3.51
1972     Tourism Promotion             Tourism                  1.11       -        1.11
Services (Uganda) Ltd.
1984     Sugar Corp. of Uganda         Food and                 8.00        -       8.00
Food Processing
1984     Toro and Mityana Tea          Food and                 1.53       -        1.53
Co., Ltd. (TAMTECO)          Food Processing
1985     Development Finance           Development Finance       -       0.37       0.37
Compau.y of Uganda
Total gross commitments                              13.44      1.08      14.52
Less cancellation, termination,
repayments and sales                                4.41      0.71      5.12
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                              9.03      0.37      9.40
Total undisbursed (including                           9.53     0.37       9.90
participants portion)                              -          -        -
Source: IFC Disbursements Section.



- 37 -                        ANNEX III
Page i of 2
UGANDA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to the Association )    October 1982/
and date of first Association mission        :)     January 1984
(c)  Date of appraisal mission                          July/August 1984
Date of completion of negotiations                    February 1985
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                           August 1985
II. Special Implementation Action by the Association
None.
III. Special Conditions of the Project
Ca)  UEB to establish a post of and appoint a Project Coordinator
acceptable to the Association who shall be responsible for
supervising the Project (paragraph 62);
(b)  UEB to adhere to agreed financial performance indicators
(paragraph 68);
(c)  UEB, in consultation with the Government and the Association, to
implement the findings of the study on its organizational
structure financed ur *r the Second Technical Assistance Project
(paragraph 70);
(d)  UEB to maintain an agreed ratio between outstanding accounts
receivable and its annual operating revenues (paragraph 70);
(e)  UEB, by March 31, 1986 to carry out a study to determine its
training and manpower requirements to 1995, by April 30, 1986 to
submit the study to the Association for comments, and in
accordance with an acceptable timetable to implement the
recommendations of the study, taking into account the
Association's comments (paragraph 71);
(f)  U`FB to earr annual returns on the average current net value of
its fixed assets in operation of 5%, and to increase its
revenues, if economic conditions allow, with the objective of
achieving annual rates of 6% in 1987, 7% in 1988 and 1989 and 8%
in 1990 (paragraph 74);



-38 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) UEB to review quarterly the adequacy of its tariffs to maintain
its agreed rate of return and to revise tariffs expeditiously as
required for this purpose (paragraph 74);
(h) UEB to submit to the Association annually trithin six months of
the end of each of its fiscal years financial statements in US$
equivalent (paragraph 75);
(i) UEB to submit reports on its quarterly reviews and tariff
actions within one month of the close of the quarter (paragraph
75);
(j) UEB to consult with the Association on the development of the
next hydroelectric station, and to incur no new debt without the
Association's concurrence unless revenues for the preceding year
are at least 1.5 times the future maximum debt service
(paragraph 76).



Wr                                  I..                          I. 1A.                                       'r                                  A
UGANDA                                    i
SECOND POWER PROJECT                                                      s U D A N
TO bC  RFMARI% IIATEO
MAIN POWER LINES 1132 IV-
_       POWER STATION                                              N           MO       \
(9      MFIIIN DIStRIBUTION NETWORKS    A        (                                                                               MadiOpe.
132 kV Pow.r L..ws
66 kV PDw, L.,.n 
33 kV P3., Lu.o.
II kV Pow rL..**                                                                    Ait
FIYDRO ELECTRIC POWER 5TArIONS    /
DIESEt POWER STATIONS I
- Mmn Pa,od Roods
Olh.. ARa.n Rood,             - -     /
O      S.cSlecd Towns                .          Nf                                   al*..N
*       N9aNomai Cop.iol            C .
4o    D0,-cl Cau.IoI.     A         b
_- -      Intu.nau,.,aI  oa ndo'.rn                                                                                   I _5_tl
9     20    *0O   80  so        i fi
KILOMETERS                (                           /                                 I         ax
2.0       4         -.0                                                                          Ap/ 
L  Q_        2p         4p        r.pMILE  /                     /A
Z AI R E                                                                      7 ". '-u
-                                     Bugon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,..--
.0                                                // Fl>- > >-@1
Nosongop 
MLI5ENDf                           go.
Kog                                                                      \                    \             B^.4nbso Koa   L,        5      te   Tl
-'-p  ~    el
R VV A N 0 A                                                                                               o                      Bus        TI
KA) A ROLE               "'* '            -           LIISLNDI       '             j       .or
-I'                                                                                                                       gG.         Ow.Fllds 
.     l ~                                                                            .                                                                              . I_ 
I .   .)                                                                                                                                                             I.^B^aAA -
'5t                                                ArA B/  ARNZA ItA =_-_
*         /                                                                                                                                                               14   '   >/8Fb  ' 
J   >- - '  t        w A 19 D AI                                                                                                       -   .                          -
_                   .,TANZANIA"~



Ji- ~       ~         u'c  AN_._                                                                                          bD 54
JECT              -    U u    A N
J,
,~~~~~~~~ _                                                                                           I-\_ __/~s_/>
; > / f a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oeborB o
X  Ad ~~~~+                1t,*@5<                                       1 7      \ ~~~~~~~K E Ns Y A
\~~~~~~Alf..    A,sm                               Kegu                                                  1%   l1
ki..o~~~~~~~~KE                                                                          Y
1>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I- '                                                               .-1     \ c/J
Apec a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i*~c~
I     b       * >/~ ItAPCHORWA
s-s.,~~~~~~~~~~k
\~~~~~~.                           .z    A          ?            '         X 
Ni~~~s,ooN                                                                                           .-   t _ tz0   1Fb j'  .)> 
M~~~~~ -                                                           '-'   .*,
Ko-O                                                          1951
XJ~~                                                                i               .                    X~
atUPEND                                                                                  tz           SD       ThOE
/                                                                I                     "'M<EISY-{ I~~~~~~~~~~~~0-
-A        K =_W ,  t^_-,  
Z   A  NJ I  A  __,___ t 3-> toet4~~~~~~~~~~~~~c W.A
FitRulEobo   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -      ~ ~ ~~             NCOLS.E-X_\ } l  )&<=)~~~ETHOPI
:;   . 1   ar                     wr                                                            OCTOlEl 1W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I






