Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15194
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1560-UG)
DECEMBER 26, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shilling (USh)
US$ to USh
Appraisal year (1984):   5.2
Actual (yearly average)
1985                   6.7
1986                   14.0
1987                   42.8
1988                   106.1
1989                   223.1
1990                   428.9
1991                   734.0
1992                   1,133.8
1993                   1,195.0
Currency Unit = SDR
USh to SDR (end of year)
1985                   15.4
1987                   85.1
1989                   486.2
1991                   1,308.8
1993                   1,552.3
USS to SDR (yearly average)
1985                   1.0984
1987                   1.2931
1989                   1.2818
1991                   1.3682
1993                   1.3963
Abbreviations
AfJDB    African Development Bank
CDC    Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA    Canadian International Develop ment Agency
ESMAP Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GSMD   Geological Survey and Mines Department, Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water Resources
GWh    Giga Watt hour (million kWh)
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
JICA    Japanese International Cooperation Agency
kW      Kilo Watt
kWh    Kilo Watt hour
LRMC   Long Run Marginal Cost
MPPT   Ministry of Power, Posts and Telecommunications
MNR    Ministry of Natural Resources
MW      Mega Watt (thousand kW)
NDF    Nordic Development Fund
NORAD Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
ODA    Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PCR    Project Completion Report
PLC    Power Line Carrier
SCADA  System Control and Data Acquisition
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
UEB    Uganda Electricity Board
Fiscal Year
January 1- December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Uganda
Second Power Project (Credit 1560-UG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the UJganda: Second Power project (Credit
1560-UG, approved in FY85), prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower provided Part 11.
Comments by the co-financiers were considered in the PCR.
The project's main objective was to assist Uganda's economic recovery initiated in the early 1980s
by improving electricity supply from the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB). Sector objectives were to
rehabilitate UEB's power system and strengthen its operational capability and the government's energy
planning capacity.
The project rehabilitated part of the Owen Falls hydroelectric plant and refurbished the
transmission and distribution network. In Kampala, the rehabilitation works went beyond the original
project design. It also helped the Energy Department plan for a forest plantation inventory (later done by
the Ministry of Agriculture) and conduct a household energy survey. Studies on tariffs, billing, generation
and distribution planning were carried out and part of their recommendationis implemented. UEB was
reorganized, its staff trained, and tariffs increased. But poor collection of bills, overstaffing and low
productivity still mar its performance.
The project cost is estimated at US$I 13.4 million, including rehabilitation works to be completed
by 1997 with financing from the Overseas Development Administration. IDA financed US$40.2 million
and succeeded in mobilizing US$68.3 million from four co-financiers and suppliers credits.
IDA's performance was satisfactory: frequent supervision missions, acceptance ofjustified clhaiges
to project scope, and reallocation of credit funds helped project execution. Borrower's perfornance was
marginally satisfactory, best towards the end of the project, when UEB implemented most of the physical
components-not as good all along in the areas of power sales and financial management.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory mainly because of its physical achievements. Its
sustainability is rated as likely because UEB already initiated measures to commercialize its operations
under the IDA Third Power project. Its institutional development is rated as moderate.
The PCR presents a satisfactory account of project implementation and results.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I
Contents
Preface.3
Evaluation Summary.5
PART 1: PROJECT EVALUATION FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.9
Project Background.9
Project Design and Implementation.11
Project Objectives and Description.13
Project Implementation.15
Disbursements.19
Procurement.21
Project Results.23
Project Sustainability.27
Bank and Borrower Performance.29
Project Relationship.31
Project Reporting.33
Lessons Learned.35
PART II: PROJECT EVALUATION FROM TIlE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.39
Annex 1: Other UEB contracts Under Second Power Project.49
Annex 2: Uganda Electricity Board Units Generated.51
Annex 3 Project Cost at Completion as of 30 June 1994.53
PART III: STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION.59
Table 1: Related Bank Group Loans and Credits..61
Table 2: Project Timetable..62
Table 3: Credit Disbursements..63
Table 4: Project Implementation..64
4.1 Contract Completion Dates.64
4.2 Studies.65
4.3 Comparison of UEB's Selected Indicators.66
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing..67
5.1 Project Costs: Comparison of SAR Estimates and Actual Costs.67
5.2 Project Financing.67
5.3 IDA Disbursements.68
Table 6: Economic Impact..69
Table 7: Status of Compliance with Major Covenants..70
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources.72
8.1 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs.72
8.2 Bank Resources: Missions.73
Table 9: UEB's Balance Sheet..75
Table 10: UEB's Income Statement..76
Table 11: UEB's Funds Flow Statements..77
document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization. I






3
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report for the Second Power Project in Uganda, for
which Credit No. 1560-UG in the amount of SDR 29.5 million (US$ 40.2 million equivalent)
was approved on March 19, 1985 and made effective on June 26, 1986.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1993, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1990. The Credit was fully disbursed and the last disbursement took place on April 20,
1994.
Co-financing for the project was provided in the form of a CDC loan to UEB of Pound Sterling
9.6 million, and an ODA grant of Pound Sterling 9.34 million. ODA later increased the grant to
about Pound Sterling 30 million to cover additional rehabilitation costs at the Owen Falls
hydropower station.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Eastern Africa Department. Part II was prepared by the Borrower (the Uganda
Electricity Board and the Ministry of Natural Resources).
Preparation of the PCR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission on June 21-28, 1994. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda. The Borrower submitted its first draft of
Part II in June, 1994, and the final report in November 1994. Parts I and III were sent to the
Borrower and the cofinanciers for comments on March 2, 1995. Comments were received from
the Borrower on March 21,1995, and from ODA on Mach 16, 1995. CDC communicated its
response on March 17, 1995.






5
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Second Power Project was the Bank's first operation in Uganda's energy sector in
more than twenty years. The operation was preceded by an energy sector review carried out by
the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP). It
provided much of the underpinnings for the project, while detailed project design was based on
an engineering study by independent consultants. At the time of appraisal, the political situation
in Uganda was unstable, and power sector facilities were in a very poor condition owing to
neglected maintenance during the preceding years of unrest. The Second Power Project was
designed to support the Government's recovery program, which had as its basic objective the
rehabilitation of the productive sectors and the improvement of existing productive capacities.
Project Objectives and Description
The primary objective of the project was to prevent the development of a bottleneck in
power supplies that would hinder economic recovery in the medium term, through the upgrade
and rehabilitation of existing generation, transmission and distribution facilities. The project
also aimed at strengthening UEB's operational capability, and the energy sector planning
capability of the ministry in charge of energy (currently the Ministry of Natural Resources).
The project included the following three main components:
Part A: Rehabilitation and uprating of ten turbo generator units and their associated gates,
structural repairs to the power house, dam and dam gates at the Owen Falls hydro power
station;
Part B: Transmission and distribution rehabilitation, provision of ancillary items and studies; and
Part C: Technical assistance to the Ministry's Energy Department
Project objectives were ambitious and addressed the priority needs of the energy sector.
However, as a result of the escalation of project costs and new requirements in the transmission
and distribution networks in and around Uganda's capital city, Kampala, the scope of Part B was
later modified to focus on the rehabilitation of the Kampala networks.
Implementation Experience
Implementation. Project implementation was at first very slow, but improved towards
the end of the project. It took eight and a half years from Credit signing to Credit closure
compared to the SAR estimate of five years. The major delays were a result of the following
three factors: First, the continued unstable security situation at the outset of the project focused
the attention of the implementation agencies more on ensuring the day-to-day operation of the
power system than on project implementation. Second, the need to modify the scope of Part B as
a result of underestimation of the extent of the rehabilitation works, cost-overruns and the
delayed project start-up. Third, the need to re-arrange the rehabilitation plan for the turbo
generators at the Owen Falls hydroplant and more work than originally envisaged. The
generators are expected to be fully rehabilitated and uprated in 1997, seven years behind



6
schedule. Implementation of the transmission and distribution components improved with the
gradual improvement in the security situation, and with the implementing agencies' increasing
familiarity with the Bank's procedures, in particular, international competitive bidding (ICB).
The training provided helped implementation as well.
Project Cost. As of end-1994, total project cost was about US$113 million, compared
to the SAR estimate of US$73.4 million. The actual costs of both the rehabilitation of the Own
Falls generators, and the transmission and distribution networks significantly exceeded the SAR
estimates, largely due to the underestimation of the scope of the rehabilitation, the unforeseen
requirements of the Kampala system, and delay in implementation.
Bank and Borrower Performance. The Bank's performance was generally satisfactory.
The Bank's 17 supervision missions had a substantial impact on improving project
implementation. At the preparatory stage, the Bank should have paid more attention to project
costs and scope to avoid cost over-runs and delays. With regard to the financial management of
UEB, the Bank should have been more decisive in enforcing compliance with the financial
covenants, especially the covenant requiring UEB to maintain the agreed relationship between
accounts receivable and its annual operating revenues. The borrower's performance in
implementing the physical components of the project improved over time, but its commitment to
improving UEB's commercial and financial management was weak. The borrower did not
comply with the rate of return covenant nor the accounts receivable covenant.
Results and Sustainability
Since the project has not been completed, its results cannot be fully assessed at this time.
However, based on the results so far, the project achieved its primary objective to prevent the
development of a bottleneck in power supplies, but was not successful in improving the financial
management of UEB. The Internal Economic Rate of Return of UEB's investment program was
re-estimated at about 14 percent. This is a reduction compared to the SAR estimates of between
16.7 and 21.6 percent, but is acceptable and justifies the investments made. The IRR should be
re-calculated when final data on costs and benefits are available in 1997. The sustainability of
the project depends on UEB's ability to improve its financial management and operational
efficiency, without which it will not be able to cover the cost of adequate operation and
maintenance of the facilities. To this end, measures have been initiated under the ongoing Third
Power project.
Structural Repairs to the Owen Falls Power House and Dam. The Project achieved
its objective to repair structural damages in the power house and dam, and to re-waterproof the
roof of the power house.
Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Owen Falls Generators. By the end of 1993, the
capacity at Owen Falls had been re-instated and the installed capacity of the plant had been
increased from 150 MW in 1988, to 168 MW in 1993, mainly by rewinding the alternators of the
generators using modern insulating materials. It is estimated that the rehabilitation and
upgrading of the remaining units will be completed in 1997, by which time the total installed
capacity will have been increased to 180 MW.
Distribution and Transmission Rehabilitation. The project achieved its objective to
rehabilitate priority transmission and distribution systems albeit behind schedule. The increased



7
and improved transmission and distribution capacity has made it possible for UEB to connect
new customers to the system and meet the growing demand for electricity by the economy.
Studies. Many of the recommendations of the studies carried out under the project were
implemented, for instance, electricity tariffs were increased in line with the recommendations of
the tariff study. Much of the underpinning for the ongoing Third Power Project results from the
studies under the Project. On the other hand, the Billing and Revenue Collection Study did little
to improve UEB's collection performance, largely because more emphasis was placed on the
installation of a new computer system than on ensuring that appropriate measures to improve
customer management were in place.
Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Natural Resources. The project contributed
to the establishment of the Energy Department which has come to play a more prominent role in
Uganda's energy scene, especially through its household and renewable energy projects.
Financial and Operational. The project did not achieve its objective to improve UEB's
financial performance and operational efficiency. Despite several tariff increases, UEB
continues to face severe financial difficulties. The main reason is UEB's poor collection
performance. The number of staff employed by UEB doubled during project implementation
and staff productivity, measured as the number of connections per staff employed, remained
significantly below the SAR targets. Under the ongoing Third Power Project, UEB has agreed to
implement a number of measures to address the above problems. For instance, the emergency
action plan to improve billing and collection procedures includes managerial and organizational
changes, and the investigation of options for improving customer management through possible
privatization of the billing and collection function.
Key Lessons Learned
(1)   Project implementation could have been expedited had project scope and cost estimates
been prepared more accurately. However, given that the project was the first Bank
operation in Uganda's energy sector in more than 20 years and that the country had
hardly recovered from an emergency situation, the task of obtaining fully accurate data
was difficult;
(2)   The Bank's flexibility in modifying the project scope based on new information of
investment priorities and costs was important for achieving project objectives;
(3)   In spite of the constrained economic and security situation and the fact that UEB had not
undertaken major construction in several years prior to project appraisal, its
implementation capacity was judged to be strong enough to undertake the project in a
relatively tight timetable. In retrospect it is evident that the project timetable,
particularly with regard to start-up was too optimistic. Specifically, slow award of
contracts led to delays;
(4)  The Bank should have been more decisive in enforcing compliance with the financial
Credit agreements, especially the covenant requiring UEB to maintain an agreed
relationship between accounts receivable and its annual operating revenues; and



8
(5)   The project has shown that measures to improve institutional and financial performance
have to be initiated up-front and be more comprehensive than those included in the
project. The project should have addressed weaknesses in power sector management
including the lack of autonomy and commercial orientation of UEB's operations. These
issues are now being ddressed under the ongoing Third Power Project, including the
possible privatization of the billing and collection function.



9
Part I: Project Evaluation from the Bank's Perspective
P21.=2crFC   DF\1rrY
Name:              Second Power Project
Credit Nuiber:   1560 - UG
RVP Unit:          Africa Region
Country:           Uganda
cector:            Infrastructure
Sub - Sector:    Power
1. Project Background
1.1   In 1981 the Government of Uganda made a dramatic break with the past and, with the
support from the IMF, the Bank, and other donors, introduced a series of financial and other
policy reforms. As a result, economic performance improved despite the negative impact of
internal security problems and adverse world economic conditions. The Government's recovery
program had as its basic objective the rehabilitation of the productive sectors and the
improvement of existing productive capacities. The Second Power Project was designed to
support this program.
1.2    At project appraisal Uganda's power system was in a very poor condition as a result of
the prevailing civil unrest in the country. Four out of the ten 15 MW generating units
(commissioned between 1954 and 1968) at Uganda's main power generating plant, the Owen
Falls hydro station, were out of service, there were cracks in the power house, and the 20 to 30
years old transmission and distribution systems needed rehabilitation and reinforcement. Indeed,
the need for spares, vehicles, and communication equipment was so acute that financing for
these;.items was provided under the Second Reconstruction Credit (Cr. 1252-UG) as a
preparatory measure.
1.3    Years of political insecurity and wars had taken a heavy toll on the Government owned
Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), which is responsible for all power generation and distribution
in Uganda. Yet, at appraisal, UEB was assessed to be more efficient than most other Ugandan
parastatals. The emergency situation that had prevailed in Uganda over the 10 to 15 years prior
to appraisal, had constrained UEB to concentrate only on keeping the system operating. The
SAR noted that planning and keeping abreast of development and new technologies had been
neglected. The electricity supply system had continued to be operated at a technology level that
was 20-30 years old. UEB had difficulty in providing sufficient funds to meet the costs of
imported spares and materials for routine maintenance and had been unable to generate any
significant contribution toward capital development. The SAR also noted that UEB had
experienced considerable difficulties in customer billing and account collection due to security
problems, lack of transport and periodic computer failure. Other reasons quoted comprised
inefficiencies of the Uganda postal system, and the non-payment of Government agencies.






I1
2. Project Design and Organization
2.1    The project was prepared by the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) and the Ministry of
Power Posts and Telecommunications (MPPT) with the assistance of international consultants,
IDA and ODA. It was designed to support the Government of Uganda's rehabilitation strategy.
The ESMAP energy sector review, carried out in 1982, concluded that the rehabilitation of the
existing generating, transmission and distribution facilities was a top priority for the
development of Uganda's power sub-sector.' This study provided much of the underpinning for
the project, while detailed design was based on the ODA-financed feasibility and engineering
study by international consultants.2
2.2    The project also included several components to address UEB's financial and
institutional problems. A new computer would make billings more timely and accurate, the
additional transport would improve the effectiveness of the meter reading, bill delivery and
collection efforts, and availability of connection materials would improve UEB's responsiveness
to customer demand and decrease illegal connections. To address UEB's organizational and
training needs, the project included studies of the organizational, manpower, and training
requirements.
2.3    The ESMAP study recommended that an inventory of wood sources and a study on
wood consumption be carried out. Both activities were included in the Project. The identified
energy conservation options were not picked up by the Project, as further ESMAP work in this
area was planned. Another ESMAP study entitled: "Institutional Strengthening in the Energy
Sector" was the basis for the TA to strengthen the Energy Department of the MPPT, which
during project implementation was reorganized and energy matters were brought under the
Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR).
2.4   It was realized at the early implementation stage that project costs were underestimated,
and that inadequate provision had been made for the rehabilitation of the Kampala network. The
project scope was therefore modified to effectively address the requirements of Uganda's power
system, for instance some contracts were let on a full turn-key basis.
1. 'Uganda - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector", Report No. 4453-UG, July 1983
2. "Rehabilitation and Uprating of the Uganda Electricity System", June 1984.






13
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Objectives: The primary objective of the project was to prevent the development of a
bottleneck in power supplies that would hinder economic recovery in the mnedium term, through
the upgrade and rehabilitation of existing generation, transmission and distribution facilities. In
addition, the project aimed at strengthening UEB's operational capability, and the energy sector
planning capability of the ministry in charge of energy, currently the Ministry of Natural
Resources.
3.2    The objectives of the project were ambitious, and were in line with the country's priority
needs in the energy sector. Given the demanding economic conditions and continued civil strife,
the implementation of the project stretched the capabilities of the implementing agencies to their
limits.
Description: The project included the following components:
Part A: Rehabilitation and uprating of ten turbo generator units, structural repairs to the
power house and dam at the Owen Falls hydro power station:
1.    Rehabilitation and uprating of ten turbo generator units;
2.    Civil works for structural repairs to the Owen Falls dam and power house;
3.    Rehabilitation and replacement of electrical and mechanical equipment such as
main cables, switchgear, control equipment, auxiliaries, intake and draft tube
equipment, and service gates; and
4.    Workshop refurbishment and provision of tools and equipment for maintenance.
Part B: Rehabilitation of transmission and distribution networks and provision of
ancillary items and studies:
1.    Substation equipment - provision of transmission transformers of 132 kV and 33
kV and control and switch gear equipment;
2.    Transmission and distribution lines - supply conductors, hardware, wood poles,
transmission towers, distribution transformers, underground line material and
consumer connecting material;
3. (a)  Kampala-Owen Falls line: uprating of the existing 66 kV transmission line to
132 kV (Transferred to Power III);
3. (b) Kampala-Nkenda and Tororo-Lira lines - strengthening of the existing 132 kV
lines (Dropped due to funds limitation);
4.    Communication and control - provision of new power line carrier and system
control and data acquisition facility (SCADA), telephone and radio equipment
(dropped due to funds limitation but funds were provided later by bilateral
agencies);
5.    Vehicles and tools - provision of about 30 new vehicles, forklifts, cranes and the
supply of tools and workshop equipment for UEB transmission and distribution
crew members and to the existing electrical, mechanical, communication,
metering and protection workshops in Kampala;
6.    Supply of billing computer to UEB;



14
7.      Reconstruction of the Jinja training school, provision of education equipment,
and the reconstruction of hostel facilities (hostel facilities' reconstruction was
dropped);
8.      Reconstruction of district offices at Mbarara and Masaka, civil works repair for
operational and residential buildings (dropped, but later undertaken by UEB
using its own funds);
9.      Provision of engineering services and consulting services including supervision
of construction; and
10.     Provision of the following studies:l
(i)     Prioritization study (added)
(ii)    Tariff study
(iii)    Billing and collection study
(iv)    Accounting study (added)
(v)     Rehabilitation of the Kampala network (added)
(vi)    Feasibility study to supply electrical power to Western Uganda (added)
(vii)    Feasibility study of an extension to the Owen Falls hydroelectric station
(viii)   SCADA study (added)
Part C: Technical assistance to the Ministry's Energy Department
1.      Provision of TA for the operation of the Energy Department
2.      Provision of TA for carrying out:
(i)    a forest and plantation inventory (implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture               and Forestry under another project);
(ii)    national fuelwood marketing survey; and
(iii)    household energy survey in the major towns of Uganda.
3. Additional studies were financed by ODA, AfDB, CIDA, and by the Second Technical Assistance Credit, Cr. 1434-UG. Cr
1434-UG: An Assessment of management, organization, manpower and training requirements of UEB, and a selective staff
development study and training manual. ODA: A Study to Review Stores and Workshop Facilities and Procedures. AfDB: a
Distribution System Rehabilitation and Loss Reduction Study, and a National Electrification Planning Study. CIDA: A study to
investigate the feasibility of developing hydroelectric capacity at the Bujagali site.



15
4. Project Implementation
4.1    Overview. It took eight and a half years from Credit signing to Credit closure,
compared to the SAR estimate of five years. Nevertheless, the project was not completed at the
Credit closing date. The IDA/CDC-financed components were completed by mid-1994, while
the ODA financed rehabilitation of the turbo generators at the Owen Falls hydro plant are
expected to be completed only in 1997. The Credit became effective on June 26, 1986, thirteen
months after credit signing. The main reasons holding up effectiveness were the long time it
took to obtain the legal opinion on the IDA lending documents from the Uganda Attorney
General, and the cross effectiveness of the CDC loan. Because of the continued political
instability in Uganda after Credit signing, project start-up was postponed further. UEB's main
concern at that time was to keep the system in operation, and consequently project
implementation was given lower priority. The slow contracting of the supervising consultants
for both the Owen Falls rehabilitation and for the transmission and distribution rehabilitation
components also delayed implementation. Additionally, the discovery that the project was
under-funded and that the original scope no longer effectively addressed the priority needs of the
system contributed to increasing implementation time as new studies had to be undertaken and
some tendering repeated. Slow payments of contractors, which was primarily caused by the long
issuance time of letters of credit by Bank of Uganda, also frustrated project implementation.
This situation improved when the special account was transferred from Bank of Uganda to a
local commercial bank. The appointment of a new General Manager and Board of Directors for
UEB in mid-1987 proved to be a turning point in strengthening project implementation.
Moreover, the improved security situation and the implementing agencies' increased familiarity
with the Bank's procedures, including ICB, contributed to a qualitative change in the
implementation of the physical components of the project
4.2    Structural Repairs to the Owen Falls Power House and Dam. The IDA Credit and
the CDC loan financed repairs to the power house and the dam. These works included the
insertion of 85 massive steel-wire anchors through the structure of the 30 year-old power station
structure into the bed-rock beneath, to prevent further cracking of the foundations4. This work
was completed in mid- 1990. The re-waterproofing of the power house's roof was completed in
1988. The Credit also financed repairs to the dam and dam gates. Further work to investigate
the need for dam strengthening is currently underway under the Third Power project.
4.3    Rehabilitation and uTpgrading of the Owen Falls Generators. Thc implementation of
this component, which was fully financed by ODA, was significantly delayed. The last generator
is expected to be rehabilitated and uprated by early 1997. The delay was caused partly by the
fact that the rehabilitation requirements varied from one generator to another and it was
apparently not possible to define them until the generators were opened up, and partly because
UEB requested that the generators be dismantled and rehabilitated in series instead of under a
program of overlapping outages as originally planned. UEB requested this re-arrangement
because it was concerned that it would not be able to meet the demand for electricity with several
units out of commission simultaneously. Coupled with the need for more work than originally
envisaged, the new rehabilitation program significantly extended the rehabilitation time and
increased project costs. As of end-]994, when the rehabilitation of the eighth unit (of 10) was
4. The SAR discussed several causes for the cracking of the foundations ana concluded that regardless of the cause, the only
remedial action that will prevent further deterioration was Ihe installatior, of the anchors.



16
on-going, the costs had already exceeded US$28 million compared to the SAR estimate to
completion of US$9.8 million.
4.4    Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation. Under this component, IDA and CDC
financed more than 20 supply and turn-key contracts for substations, transformers, overhead line
equipment, vehicles, poles, office equipment, hard and software for UEB's billing system, etc.
An intemational consulting firm assisted UEB's project coordinator in bid preparation and
evaluation, procurement and in the supervision of contractors. This component was originally
intended to rehabilitate the major transmission and distribution systems country wide. When the
project implementation finally started, more than two years behind schedule, it was realized that
the scope of the rehabilitation works was under-estimated partly because of the delay which had
led to additional deterioration, and partly because of the need to strengthen implementation by
letting major contracts on a turn-key basis instead of a supply basis as intended at appraisal. The
project also was under-funded and UEB was not able to provide the agreed contribution to
project financing. In addition, the rapid load growth in the Kampala area had put its distribution
system under pressure with frequent interruptions as a result. Consequently, the Bank agreed to
two additional studies: the first study was to examine the rehabilitation needs of the Kampala
system, and the second study was to prioritize between the several rehabilitation needs in the
country wide system. Based on the recommendations of these studies, the project scope was
modified to focus on the rehabilitation and upgrading of the networks in the Kampala area. Due
to the 'iigher cost of the project, four originally planned components could not be funded from
the Credit as planned: (i) communication and control - provision of new power line carrier and
SCADA, telephone and radio equipment; (ii) reconstruction of district offices at Mbarara and
Masaka, civil works repair for operational and residential buildings; (iii) Kampala-Owen Falls
line: uprating of the existing 66 kV transmission line to 132 kV; and (iv) Kampala-Nkenda and
Tororo-Lira transmission lines - strengthening of the existing 132 kV lines. Of these (i) was later
financed by NDF and NORAD, (ii) was undertaken by UEB by its own funds, and (iii) is being
carried out under the ongoing Third Power Project.
4.5    The supply and installation contracts under this project component were substantially
completed by mid-1994, compared to the SAR target year of 1987. At UEB's request, parts of
the transmission and distribution rehabilitation works were carried out by UEB staff using the
materials procured under the Credit. This contributed to improving UEB staff skills in
transmission and distribution system rehabilitation.
4.6    Studies. A total of 8 studies were carried out by international consultants. The initiation
of the studies was slow, due to, at least partly, the limited staff resources at both UEB and the
MNR at the initial stages of project implementation. The studies were completed by 1991 as
opposed to the SAR target year of 1988. Some of the studies were deferred at IDA's request.
The Accounting Study was added to the project scope at UEB's request as a response to IDA's
repeated remainders that UEB was not complying with the financial covenants of the project.
4.7    Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Natural Resources. The Credit financed a
petroleum adviser, a senior energy adviser, and a biogas expert, a Household Energy Planning
Program, training, vehicles and office equipment. Continued financing for the services of the
senior energy adviser and the biogas expert is currently provided under the Third Power Project.
The planned Forest and Plantation Inventory was not carried out because it was more
appropriately carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and for which financing
from other sources was obtained. The Fuelwood Marketing Survey and the Urban Household



17
Energy Survey were combined into the Household Energy Planning Program. It was completed
in 1990, and recommended a US$6.5 million investment program mainly aimed at improving the
efficiency of charcoal production and use. Although this study was comprehensive, neither the
Bank nor the Government considered its recommendations adequately justified, and it thus failed
to provide the basis for a household energy strategy as envisioned. In 1992, the Ministry agreed
to re-allocate about US$2 million to UEB to finance the repair of damages caused by fire at
Owen Falls.
4.8   Project Cost. The estimated cost of the project at the time of appraisal was about
US$73.4 million. Actual project cost was about US$113 million in December 1994, as shown in
Table 5.1 in Part III. The costs of both the rehabilitation of the Owen Falls and the transmission
and distribution systems were substantially higher than estimated in the SAR as a result of
implementation delays and also because the scope of the rehabilitation was under estimated.
Final cost data will be available when the Owen Falls rehabilitation has been completed in early
1997.
4.9    Project Risks. The major risk considered during appraisal was the ability of the
Government of Uganda to maintain public security and secure working conditions for project
implementation and subsequent maintenance. It was especially expected that the rehabilitation
work on the transmission and distribution systems could be delayed because of security reasons,
but the Owen Falls site would not be affected. In retrospect, it can be noted that at least three
additional risk factors should have been identified and addressed in a greater detail: the weak
initial implementation capacity of UEB and MPPT; the weak financial management of UEB
given that the appraisal team were unable to obtain up-to date financial data, and that UEB's
financial position was judged to be weak; and technical risks in regard to the rehabilitation
works.






19
5. Disbursements
5.1    A total of US$40.2 million (SDR 29.5 million) was disbursed. The Credit was fully
disbursed, but the disbursements were much slower than expected in the SAR mainly because of
the delayed start-up of the project. Disbursements were completed over a period of seven and a
half years compared to the appraisal estimate of five years. Because of the appreciation of the
exchange rate for the SDR, the disbursed amount was higher than the SAR estimate of US$28.8
million. At appraisal the disbursements were scheduled at a quicker rate than the standard
profile for power projects in the Eastern Africa Region because the project did not include the
construction of new facilities. In hindsight, this assessment was too optimistic.






21
6. Procurement
6.1    Schedule I of the Project Agreement (PA) stipulated that goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits " published by the Bank in August 1984, except for civil works for
the Training Center and for the reconstruction of local offices at Mbarara and Masaka which
could be procured through local competitive bidding. Minor civil works on transmission
installation could be carried out by UEB staff. The PA further stated that consultants shall be
selected based on the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants, published in August 1981.
The Bank agreed that UEB procure some urgently needed materials for the Owen Falls and the
transmission and distribution systems through international shopping. CDC followed the Bank's
procurement guidelines, whereas ODA applied its own rules.
6.2   Progress on procurement was reported to have been good during the final project years.
At the outset, the borrower and the implementing agencies were unfamiliar with ICB leading to
delayed procurement decisions.






23
7. Project Results
7.1    Even though the project is not fully completed, project results so far show that the
project contributed substantially to improving the quantity and quality of electricity supply and
in improving UEB's technical capabilities. The project was less successful in improving UEB's
financial management and operational efficiency and in improving the energy planning
capabilities of the Energy Department. The project was successful in establishing the basis for a
rational electricity pricing policy.
7.2    Structural Repairs to the Owe Falls Power House and Dam. The project achieved its
objective to repair structural damages in the power house, dam and dam gates, and to re-
waterproof the roof of the power house. These works helped to preserve UEB's key generation
asset.
7.3    Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Owen Falls Generators. At the time of the
preparation of the PCR, this project component had achieved about 70 percent of its objective.
By mid- 1994, seven of the planned 10 hydro generators had been commissioned, and work had
begun on the eighth. The installed capacity has increased from 150 MW in 1988 to 168 MW in
1993, as a result of the rewinding the alternators of the generators by modem insulating
materials. Over the same period, the generation output of the plant has increased from some 570
GWh to 980 GWh. Once the remaining units have been rehabilitated and uprated, the total
capacity will increase to 180 MW, and the reliability of the supply will improve further.
7.4    Distribution and Transmission Rehabilitation. The project achieved its objective to
rehabilitate priority transmission and distribution systems albeit with delays. The increased and
improved transmission and distribution capacity has made it possible for UEB to connect new
customers to the system and meet the growing demand for electricity by the economy; the
number of customers has increased by about 44 percent between 1988 and 1993, and sales have
almost doubled during the same period. In addition, the supply is more reliable. Based on
interviews with a limited number of industrial and commercial sector consumers in Kampala in
mid 1994, there has been a noticeable improvement in supply reliability recently. The continued
rehabilitation work under the ongoing Third Power project will further improve the networks.
System losses, which accounted for about 34 percent of Uganda supply in 1993, are, however,
unacceptably high and were not reduced during project implementation. UEB intends to initiate
a loss reduction project based on the Loss Reduction Study financed by AfDB. This key project
should be initiated as soon as possible.
7.5   Studies. Several important studies were successfully completed under the project and
many of the recommendations were carried out. Following the recommendations of the Tariff
Study, completed in 1990, UEB established the Long Run Marginal Cost of Supply (LRMC) as
the basis for tariff setting and its recommendations were fully implemented by July 1993, as a
condition of effectiveness of the credit for the Third Power project. The Study to assess the
management, organization, manpower and training needs of UEB, which was financed outside of
the Project by ODA, laid the foundations for the reorganization of UEB, and as a result, a staff
development scheme was carried out under which several senior managers received training in
Europe. The Billing and Revenue Collection Study recommended the purchase of computer
equipment and various improvements in UEB's procedures and practices. A new computer
system was installed albeit with delays. While the new computer offered increased efficiency in



24
billing procedures, UEB failed to improve its revenue collection performance largely because
greater emphasis was placed on the installation of the computer system than on ensuring that
appropriate measures to improve customer management were in place. Moreover, the important
issue of the quality and accuracy of UEB's customer data base was not adequately tackled.
Based on the recommendations of the Accounting Study, UEB computerized parts of its
accounting and reorganized its Finance Department. Even though UEB currently is able to
produce more reliable financial data than before, the lack of highly qualified accountants
hampered the full implementation of the recommendations of the Accounting Study.
7.6    In addition, much of the underpinning for the ongoing Third Power Project results from
the studies under the project. For instance, the feasibility and detailed design for the 102 MW
Owen Falls Extension, currently being constructed, was financed under the project.
7.7    Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Natural Resources. The project contributed
to the establishment of the Energy Department which has come to play a more prominent role in
Uganda's energy scene, especially through its household and renewable energy projects. A
major disappointment was that the Household Energy Planning Program did not produce results
that could have been implemented to develop a household energy development plan as
envisaged. Currently, the Third Power Project is providing follow-up financing for the senior
energy adviser and for the biogas promotion project. Continued support will depend on the
ongoing review of past achievements. There is also a need to strengthen the Department's
activities in new areas, and the ongoing Third Power Project is providing TA to assist the
Department to review legal aspects of private sector participation in the power sub-sector. An
additional area where the Department would need strengthening is the monitoring of the
recently liberalized petroleum products prices to ensure least-cost supplies to consumers.
7.8    UEB's Financial and Operational Performance. The project did not achieve its
objective to improve UEB's financial and operational performance, and follow-up actions are
being carried out under the ongoing Third Power project. At project appraisal, in 1984, UEB's
financial performance was unsatisfactory. UEB was not able to produce reliable financial
information. Its accounts receivable were estimated to be equivalent to at least 5 months of
billings. It was unable to cover the cost of routine maintenance and contribute towards capital
development. Despite an increase of 400% in the average tariff yield, the average revenue per
kWh was equivalent to about US cents 1.5 per kWh, while the supply cost was broadly estimated
by the ESMAP study to some US cents 5 per kWh. In addition, the monitoring of UEB's
performance in accordance with the Credit agreements, was judged by the appraisal team to put a
heavy burden on UEB's accounting systems. The SAR also was concerned whether UEB's
organizational structure and operational performance would be adequate to administer a major
project. Adding to these concerns were the low staff morale and attendance resulting from the
eroded purchasing power of staff salaries due to high inflation.
7.9    At Credit closing UEB's financial performance and its operational efficiency were still
unsatisfactory, despite the training and studies provided by IDA, ODA and AfDB- . UEB was
not able to reach the 8 percent rate of return on its fixed assets as covenanted in the legal
agreements for the Credit. This was partly due to the revaluation of UEB's assets and the low
bulk tariff for electricity exports to Kenya (sales to Kenya were priced at about US cents 0.3 per
5. ODA and AfDB financed expatriate executive officers for UEB's Finance, Stores, Training, Corporate Planning, Commercial
Operations and MIS Departments. Most of these staff have recently been replaced by UEB staff members. In addition, the British
Council provided scholarships for graduate studies in Europe. Continued institutional support is expected from the above sources



25
kWh in 1993), as well as the low domestic tariff which prevailed until mid-1993. Operational
inefficiencies, including high staffing levels, also contributed to the problem; the number of staff
employed by UEB doubled between 1986 and 1993 and staff productivity, measured as the
number of connections per staff, was low - 34 in 1993 - and below the SAR targets. In spite of
the increase in the average tariff to some US cents 7.3 per kWh in July 1993, UEB posted a loss
in 1993, and was not able to fully service its debt obligations for 1993 nor for 1994 .
7.10   UEB's financial difficulties stem mainly from its inability to collect revenue; in 1993,
7
receivables stood at more than 9 months of sales, compared to the covenanted 3 months7.
Private consumers accounted for about two thirds of UEB's hilling arrears, as public sector
billing arrears were covered by an annual debt swap arrangement between UEB and the
Government. The root causes of UEB's commercial difficulties are the unreliable customer data
base and systematic problems with inadequate organizational arrangements and management
control systems, ranging through meter reading, staff collusion with customers, and cash
collection. To remedy the situation, UEB has initiated an intensified program to disconnect
delinquent customers, carried out a customer census in Kampala to update its consumer data
base, and has agreed under the ongoing Third Power Project to implement an emergency action
plan to bring receivables down to 3 months of sales by the end of 1995. This plan includes
managerial and organizational changes, replacement of meters and investigating options for
improving customer management including possible privatization of billing and collection.
7.11   Economic Impact. The SAR reports two alternative IRR estimates: 16.7 percent and
21.6 percent. The difference between these two estimates is the value of incremental sales in
Uganda made possible by the investments; in the first case the SAR uses the average 1985 tariff
yield as the value, and in the other case the projected average annual tariff yield during project
implementation. The SAR correctly noted that the IRR estimates were financial rates of return
adjusted for price inflation and excluding duties and taxes, and did not take account of consumer
surplus. Based on the SAR methodology, adjusted for implementation delays, the IRR for
UEB's investment program was re-estimated at about 14 percent. This is a reduction compared
to the SAR estimates, but the IRR is acceptable and justifies the investments made. Despite the
substantial escalation in investment costs, the reduction in the IRR is not significant because the
investments were spread out over a longer period and because domestic tariffs were higher than
assumed in the SAR. As was the case with the SAR estimate, the re-estimated IRR did not take
account of consumer surplus; it thus underestimates the economic benefits of the project. Details
of the calculation are shown in Table 6 in Part III. Because the final data on project costs and
benefits will be available only in 1997, it is recommended that the IRR be re-estimated at that
time in conjunction with the supervision for the Third Power Project.
6. By mid-1994, the average tariff yield from domestic sales had increased to around US cents 10 per kWh, as a result of the
appreciation of the Uganda Shilling vis-a-vis the US dollar.
7. UEB's accounts receivable position worsened during 1993 and 1994, as a result of substantial tariff increases implemented in
July 1993 and August 1994.






27
8. Project Sustainability
8.1    The sustainability of the project is likely, provided that UEB improve its financial
management and operational efficiency, without which it will not be able to finance adequate
operation and maintenance of the facilities. With Bank support, under the ongoing Third Power
project, UEB has already initiated measures to improve its commercial operations and financial
management. In addition, the Government is intent to improve the efficiency of the sub-sector,
manifested by its current process to review development options for the energy sector and to
8
prepare an energy sector strategy in connection with the ongoing ESMAP study .
8. Issues and options in the Energy Sector. Draft report April 1994.






29
9. Bank and Borrower Performance
9.1    The Bank's performance was generally satisfactory. At the preparation stage, the Bank
should have paid greater attention to project costs and scope, though the difficult economic and
security situation in Uganda before and at the time of project appraisal posed limitations. The
Bank's 15 supervision missions had a substantial impact on improving the implementation of the
physical components of the project, and the Bank was flexible in accepting changes in project
scope and in reallocating funds when it became evident that the project was underfunded and
required refocusing. With regard to the financial management of UEB, the Bank should have
been more decisive in enforcing compliance with the financial covenants, especially the
covenant requiring UEB to maintain an agreed relationship - specified in a supplemental letter -
between accounts receivable and its annual operating revenucs (PA 4.01).
9.2    The borrower's performance in regard to the construction aspects of the project improved
towards the end of the project. While country circumstances beyond the implementing agencies'
control were a major impediment to project implementation initially, the borrower's slow
procurement decisions contributed to delays. In regard to improving UEB's commercial and
financial management, the borrower's commitment to project objectives was weak. The
borrower did not comply with all the financial covenants of the project, submission of audits
was often delayed, and UEB was unable to provide the agreed contribution to project financing.
On the positive side, the borrower increased power tariffs to the level of LRMC, identified the
need for the accounting study to improve financial information, initiated institutional
improvements and staff training programs, and submitted its completion report as requested.






31
10. Project Relationship
10.1  IDA maintained a good working relationship and adequate communication with the
Borrower, UEB, the Ministry of Natural Resources, and the co-financiers during project
preparation and supervision. Coordination with other donors was also good.






33
11. Project Reporting
11.1   The documents in the project file were adequate to prepare this PCR. The Bank's
supervision reports were comprehensive. They discussed the progress of the several contracts
and studies, reported on UEB's financial situation, and the progress on the technical assistance
component. The Borrower's quarterly project progress reports were detailed and of high quality
and provided a good account of implementation progress but they did not discuss the
institutional and financial aspects of the project. Reporting on the technical assistance to the
MNR was limited from the side of the borrower.






35
12. Lessons Learned
(1)   Project implementation could have been expedited had project scope and cost estimates
been prepared more accurately. However, given that the project was the first Bank
operation in Uganda's energy sector in more than 20 years and that the country had
hardly recovered from an emergency situation, the task of obtaining fully accurate data
was difficult;
(2)   The Bank's flexibility to modify the scope of the project based on new information of
investment priorities and costs was important for achieving project objectives;
(3)  In spite of the constrained economic and security situation and the fact that Uganda had
not undertaken major construction in several years prior to project appraisal, its
implementation capacity was judged to be strong enough to undertake the project in a
relatively tight timetable. In retrospect it is evident that the project timetable,
particularly with regard to start-up was too optimistic;
(4)   The Bank should have been more decisive in enforcing compliance with the financial
covenants of the Credit; and
(5)   The project has shown that measures to improve institutional and financial performance
have to be initiated up-front and have a more comprehensive approach than what was
included in the project. The project should have addressed the weaknesses in power
sector management including the lack of autonomy and commercial orientation of UEB's
operations. These issues are now being addressed under the ongoing Third Power
Project, including the possible privatization of the billing and collection function.






37
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1560-UG)
PART II: PROJECT EVALUATION FROM
THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE






39
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD
SECOND POWER PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
1.    INTRODUCTION
During the 1970s the Owen Falls Power Station suffered from a lack of regular
maintenance due to the political and economic situation in the country.
By early 1980s it was clear that the forecast growth in the Uganda system could not be
met by a new hydroelectric scheme without serious shortfalls in generating capacity in
the interim.
Kennedy & Donkin in association with Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners in 1983 proposal
to uprate and rehabilitate the existing Owen Falls Power Station from 15MW to 18MW
(for each of the 10 units) and the transmission and distribution system was accepted by
UEB. The study was funded by ODA.
In 1985 IDA, CDC and ODA extended various credits for the rehabilitation project. The
initial project cost estimate was US$ 72 Million but at completion the project cost was
approximately US$ 115 Million.
2.    PROJECT START-UP
The start-up of the project was delayed about two and a half years by several constraints
including country-wide strife.  The original project cost estimates were therefore
inapplicable. The network had further deteriorated, prices had escalated during that
period. Meanwhile the Board decided on supply and install contracts rather than mere
supply contracts in order to secure suppliers' warranty conditions.
Due to limited funding a prioritisation study was undertaken in 1989 to review the scope
of the work and also to determine a new project implementation schedule. The following
major items were left out of the new scope of work:
-     uprating of the existing 66kV transmission line between Kampala to 132 kV



40
strengthening of 132 kV transmission lines, Kampala -Nkenda, Tororo - Lira.
communication and control provision of new power line carrier SCADA,
telephone and radio equipment. [later financed by NDF and NORAD
respectively]
reconstruction of district offices, Mbarara, Masaka and Civil Works repair for
operational and residential buildings. [UEB has undertaken using own funds].
Additional funding shown in Annex 1 was, secured to finance some of the items
left out by the prioritisation study.
3.1   Rehabilitation and Uprating of Owen Falls Power Station and Dam.
The works were supervised by ODA financed consultants Kennedy & Donkin in
partnership with Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners. The electrical/mechanical component
was financed by funds from Overseas Development Administration (ODA) and a civil
component financed jointly by International Development Association (IDA) and
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). The rehabilitation of the Owen Falls
Power Station involved the repair and renovation of the following civil works:
Contract 001: Underwater inspection/repairs
Contract 002: Power Station repairs
Contract 003: Re-water proofing Power house
Contract 021: Dam gate equipment
Contract 028: Consultants' houses
as well as the following supply contracts:
Contract 024: Transformers,anc. equipment
Contract 025: Cables and Accessories
Contract 026: Switchgear equipment
Contract 029: Consultants' vehicles
The key features of the refurbishment were:
to include new and uprated stator windings
modernisation of the excitation system for the entire 1O generating sets
refurbishment or replacement of virtually all mechanical moving parts
modemisation of the electrical and control equipment.



41
The programme of refurbishing and rewinding the turbines and generators was still in
progress by the Credit closing date of 31 December, 1993 and was expected to be
completed by 1997.  The causes of this delayed implementation are discussed in
paragraph 6.
3.2   Transmission, Distribution and Communications Component
This was under supervision of consultants Lahmeyer International of West Germany and
contracts relating to these works were mainly for supply and installation of electrical
equipment.  The work involved the rehabilitation of the system  including the
strengthening of the lines and major substations between Owen Falls Power Station and
Kampala, Kampala and Mbarara and between Tororo and Mbale, also the replacement of
communication equipment linking some substations, District Offices and vehicles.
3.3.  Awarded supply contracts
A major part of the funds were used for emergency material to enable UEB to repair the
existing network to install new distribution transformers and connect additional
customers. The entire UEB organisation had to be restructured and provided with
logistics like vehicles, office material and working tools. The following supply contracts
have been placed and material received:
3.3.1  UEB A 1864 to A 1870 emergency items
A 1864 Distribution transformers
A 1866 Radio Transceiver sets
A 1867 Photocopy machine
A 1868 Air conditioners
A 1869 Various items
A 1870 Office equipment
3.3.2  Supply Contracts
UEB 104 Radio Communication systems
UEB 201 Power Transformers HV/mv
UEB 202 Distribution Transformers
UEB 203 Cables and Accessories
UEB 204 Overhead line equipment
UEB 205 Distribution Pillars
UEB 206 Tools and equipment



42
UEB 207 Workshop Tools and equipment
UEB 208 Specialised vehicles
UEB 209 Transformer Repair material
UEB 231 Circuit breakers
UEB 235 Billing Computer
3.3.3  Supply & Installation Contracts
UEB 302 HV and MV overhead lines
UEB 401 132/33/11kV substations.
4.    INSTITUTIONAL AND MANAGERIAL CHANGES.
A major institutional change supported by the World Bank was financed by the African
Development Bank. This was the Institutional Support Project under which expatriate
staffs were recruited to head the departments of Finance, Commercial, Management
Information System (MIS) and a newly created Corporate Planning Department.
5.    Further Studies.
In addition to the prioritisation study, various studies were undertaken by consultants to
improve and develop electricity supply in Uganda in the lifetime of the Project.
5.1   Extension of Owen Falls Power Station Study.
This was a feasibility study and engineering design for the next hydro site to be
developed in Uganda's least cost power development plan and was complemented with
site subterranean investigations financed by CIDA, Canada.
5.2   Training Studies.
There were two studies related to training and management reorganisation "Assessment
of Management, Organisation, Manpower and Training Requirements of UEB", study
and "Selective Staff Development Study" and training manual.
The consultants recommended the re-establishment of the Niger Training Center, and a
structural reorganisation of the Board. As a result a staff development scheme was
undertaken in which several UEB Senior Managers received training in the U.K.
5.3   Finance and Accounting.



43
The consultants assisted UEB to set up a project accounting manual for Second Power
Project. As a variation to the contract allowed the consultants to join hands with UEB
staff in finalising the accounts for 1988 - 1989 which were in arrears.
Their recommendations have formed the basis for computerising the accounting and
reorganisation within the Finance Department.
5.4   Billing and Revenue Collection Study.
Following the final breakdown of the KL 1902A computer in 1986 the billing and
collection system was then converted to run on third party equipment on a bureau basis
In 1987 Consultants who carried out a study of current practices in the areas of billing
and revenue collection recommended the purchase of new computer equipment as well as
proposing improved procedures and practices.
Implementation was not satisfactory. It took a long time to supply all the equipment and
problems were encountered in running an outdated software programme. The accuracy of
the consumer standing data was also over estimated.
5.5   National Electrification Planning Study
Related to the study mentioned at para 5.1 was the National Electrification Planning
study undertaken under African Development Bank funding. The objective of the study
was to examine the technical, financial and economic feasibility of a programme for
providing electricity to a substantial number of areas in Uganda during the next 20 years.
5.6   Loss Reduction Study
The Loss Reduction Study was funded by ADB and was meant to close the gap in overall
system planning and system reliability improvements.
5.7   Tariff Study.
At the inception of the Project it was evident that the Board lacked finances for capital
development, debt service and a reasonable rate of return. Therefore, Consultants were
engaged in 1990 to carry out a tariff study. The study established the Long Run Marginal
Cost (LRMC) as the basis for setting tariffs. Recommendations about tariff structures and
new tariff levels have been implemented since 1991.
5.8   Other studies



44
The following studies were also undertaken and completed.
- Review of stores and vehicle workshop facilities and procedures.
- Feasibility study to supply electrical power to Western Uganda.
- Rehabilitation of the Kampala Network.
- Household Energy Planning Programme.
- Rehabilitation and uprating of Uganda electricity system including 10 amendments.
6.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CONSTRAINTS
6.1   Rehabilitation and Uprating of Owen Falls Power Station and Dam
In retrospect the causes of delays in implementation have been:-
6.1.1  Technical problems differed from unit to unit and this could not have been reasonably
foreseen.
6.1.2  Funding constraints experienced influenced and prolonged the implementation schedule.
6.1.3  The base load in 1971/1972 before the expulsion of the Asians and which represented
suppressed demand may not have been properly taken into account in the load forecasting.
With revived economic activity it was not possible to hand over the machines to the
contractors as envisaged in the schedule of implementation.
6.1.4  The change of supervising consultants from the study consultants could have contributed to
the delay in implementation as the former needed time to familiarise.
6.1.5  The consultants were paid directly by the funding agency with little indulgence by the
employer and the influence of the employer over the consultants was diluted somewhat.
6.2   Other Constraints
At the inception of the project the Special Account was held at Bank of Uganda and because
of the then existing exchange controls in the country clearance had to be obtained from Bank
of Uganda for most of procurement matters. Long delays in disbursing to suppliers and
contractors were experienced.
The situation improved when the Special Account was transferred to a local Commercial
bank. Liberalisation of exchange controls further improved project implementation.



45
Joint financing of the generation component between IDA and CDC in the ratio of 70/30
caused some difficulties at the beginning. This was sorted out when IDA agreed to
exhaust own funds before utilising CDC funding though maintaining the overall ratios.
7.    COST OVERRUNS
7.1   Despite reduction in scope of the works (para 2), cost overruns beyond the budget cost
estimates for Credit 1560 were experienced and are discussed below.
7.2   The World Bank agreed that cost overruns on UEB-401 contract which is a major
contract to improve to several main substations throughout the network could be
disbursed from the Third Power Project (Credit 2268-UG). In addition to DM
15,756,543 paid out of Credit 1560, extra US$ 10 Million will be disbursed from Credit
2268. The costs for the supervising consultant amounting to about US$ 2,306,000 will
also be paid from Credit 2268.
7.3   Costs (including five variations) for the design Consultants for Owen Falls Extension
beyond the provisions of Credit 1560 were also agreed to be disbursed from the Third
Power Project Credit in the approximate amount of Canadian Dollars 4.5 million.
7.4   Also to be paid from Credit 2268 are some minor costs for the expatriate staff in the MIS
department totaling to US$350,000.
8.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE MINISTRY OF ENERGY
8.1   Establishment of the Energy Department.
The energy department has been successfully created and is currently staffed with well
qualified professionals who have been trained under the Second Power Project at both
short and long courses and have also gained considerable experience in the energy sector
over the years. The Department has benefited from provisions of computer hardware and
software as well as motor vehicles.
It must be noted however that just as well qualified professional staff are in place, they
are not in sufficient numbers and indeed a number of established posts in the various
divisions of the energy department are not filled. This has been mostly due to the
prevailing high salary and wage disparities.



46
8.2   Assistance for carrying out a forest and plantation inventory
This project was not undertaken by the Ministry of Energy because it constituted a
component of another project, under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The
National Biomass Study, financed by sources outside the Second Power Project. The
National Biomass Study has been completed.
8.3   Assistance for a fuelwood marketing survey as well as an urban household energy
survey in the major towns of Uganda
A fuelwood marketing survey was not undertaken but an urban household energy survey
was undertaken and completed by September 1990 under what w'1s called the "Household
Energy Planning Program (HEPP)". The study was fairly exhaustive but has now been
overtaken by events and needs to be revised to adapt it to present day circumstances.
9.    OUTAGES AND LOSSES
9.1   Maximum system demand has shown a steady increase as the units in Owen Falls Power
Station have been rehabilitated. Not only has the system demand increased (136.2 MW
in 1991, 151.0 MW in 1992 and 157.2 MW in 1993) but the maximum load sent to
Kenya has also shown an upward trend, although in 1993 there was a decrease from 1992
because of the increased Ugandan demand.
9.2   The availability of energy has improved markedly during the last 12 months. During the
7 month period June to December 1993, there was an average of 163 hours per month of
load shedding due to distribution shortfalls and 89 hours per month due to generation
outages at Owen Falls Power Station (a total of 202 hours/month). The average monthly
energy loss was 690 MWh.
This situation did not change markedly during the first months of 1994, but in the quarter
April to June 1994 there were NO loadsheds due to distribution deficiencies (and this
coincides with the commissioning of the Mutundwe, Port Bell and Gaba Waterworks
Substations) and only an average of 43 hours per month loadshedding due to faults at
Owen Falls Power Station. During this period the energy loss was only 155 MWh/month
and was as low as 65 MWh in June when there was a total of only 15 hours of load
shedding. Note that hours of loadshedding do not indicate that the whole of the system
was off power for that period; it is the sum of the hours lost on the 12 1 1kV feeders and
six 33 kV feeders from Kampala.
9.3   Technical losses are caused in particular by over loaded transmission lines and
transformers as the maximum demand increases. Other causes are the dilapidated LV



47
distribution network. The poor system voltages are largely due to haphazard growth of
distribution and connections.
9.4   Future action to reduce the high technical losses will depend on the implementation of the
ADF funded Urban Power Rehabilitation Project.
10.   PROJECT ROLE IN LONG TERM UEB PLAN
The Project has provided relative improvements to power system reliability and
efficiency by restoring generating capacity at Owen Falls.
The rehabilitation of Owen Falls Power Station will result into uprating of
capacity by 20% (30MW). However, the firm capacity of the station after
rehabilitation (with nine units in service and one unit under maintenance) will be
162MW.
-     Strengthening UEB's Management by provision of training, improved work
incentives through annual salary/wage increase and a rationalised organisation
structure.
-     Promoting rational pricing policies based on long run marginal cost principles.
The downside of the tariff policy which has been targeting the LRMC has been an
increase in receivables.
-     Least cost options for timely development of generation capacity, namely, the
Owen Falls Extension was identified.
-     The numerous studies have provided UEB with useful management data base.






Annex 1
OTHER UEB CONTRACTS UNDER SECOND POWER PROJECT
contract 9V.            'Description        |   Funding         Contractor         Cureniy    I        M40ount    |      ate tEq|iv. VSS
UEB 91-402   SCADA Equipment                    NDF           ABB Sweden             SEK             29,904,000.00        5.93        5,040,684.00
UEB 91-403   PLC and Communication             NORAD           EB-NERA              NOK              16,500,000.00        9.01         1,831,542.00
Equipment
UEB 92-404   Supply & Installation of Mbarara    EIB            GTA &                DM               4,514,992.00        1.71        2,639,728.72
132/33 Kv Substation               UEB              SAD                USH             32,779,000.00     1,140.00          28,753.51
UEB 92-405   Supply of Steel Towers              EIB          Siemens AG             DM               5,794,469.00        1.71        3,387,785.90
Masaka-Mbarara                     UEB                                 USH            143,060,400.00     1,140.00          125,491.58
UEB 92-406   Supply of ACSR Conductors           EIB            Siemens              DM               2,394,212.00        1.71         1,399.796.54
Amd. No. I   ACSR 120/20                         EIB            Siemens              DM               1,083,500.00        1.71          633,477.55
UEB 92-407   Supply of Insulator chains, strings  EIB           Siemens              DM                849,440.00         1.71          496.632.37
and fittings                   _      _
Amd. No. I    33 KV equipment                    EIB            Siemens              DM               1,550,824.00        1.71          906,702.53
UEB 92-408   Survey Works                        EIB           Lahmeyer              DM               1,011,840.00        1.71          591,580.92
UEB 92-409   Supervision Works                   EIB           Lahmeyer              DM                959,850.00         1.71          561,184.52
UEB 92-410A   Supply of 2WD General              EIB             Toyota              DM                 228,320.00         1.71          133,489.24
Cargo Lorries
UEB 92-410C   Supply of 4WD Double Carbin        EIB            Marubeni             DM                 155,216.00         1.71           90,748.36
Pickups                                                         .                .
UEB 93-411A   Supply of Untreated Wooden          EIB            SIPI lnt.           USH            109,000,000.00     1,140.00           95,614.04
Poles
UEB 93-411B   Supply of Untreated Wooden         EIB            IPI Ltd.             USH             32,000,000.00     1,140.00           28,070.18
Poles
UEB 93-412   Supply of Coal Tar Creosote         EIB         EXIMP Agency            DM                120,000.00         1.71           70,159.03
Rehabilitation of Queensway and  Japanese          JICA              Jap-Yen          910,864,000.00       123.10        7,399.382.62
Motor Mat Substations, Kampala     Grant
Institutional Support Project      ADB                                 FUA              5,255,300.00         1.15        6,033,031.85
Loss Reduction Study               IDB              IVO                FUA                854,800.00         1.15          981,301.85
I___  32,475,157.28






Annex 2
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD
UNITS GENERATED, LOSSES AND SALES (GWh) & MAX DEMAND (MW)
1985-1993.
1985        1986        1987         1988        1989         1990        1991        1992        1993
January                 55.3         46.2        56.9        49.7         41.5        62.2         56.2        82.6        82.5
February                 53.4        47.5        45.3         49.9        45.5         52.7        50.5         75.9        77.3
March                   59.0        57.2        51.0         53.0        56.4         54.6        55.6         82.8        81.7
April                  53.9         55.7        49.3        50.7         54.0        66.0         51.6        85.4        77.4
May                    50.3        46.6         50.3        48.8        52.5         66.4        53.2         77.1        83.1
June                   47.8        44.4         51.9        4Z0          55.8        63.8        66.2         72.5        76.0
July                   53.2        5Z5          54.6        48.7        577          62.7        73.1         87.5        83.9
August                  53.3        54.5         53.4        49.3        57.2         62.6        74.6         8ZI         83.0
September                50.3        56.7         54.0        49.3         56.8        66.2         66.2        78.0        79.8
October                 50.3         58.9        56.4        470          58.4        6Z7          77.6        877         83.2
November                 49.2        54.1         49.0        35.8         60.8        574          76.0        86.8        82.1  H
December                 48.7        56.1         45.7        36.8         62.9        55.0         80.8        89.9        8Z3
I  Hydro Electric (GWh)             624.7       635.4        617.8       566.0        659.5       736.7       781.6        993.3       977.3
2  Diesel                             1.7         1.7          1.3         1.5          1.4         1.5         1.2          1.9         1.8
3  Total Generated                  626.4       63ZI         619.1       5675         660.9       738.2       782.8        995.2       979.1
4  Works Units                        1.0         1.0          1.0         1.0          1.1         1.4         1.5         0.64        0.59
5  Units Sent Out                   625.4       636.1        618.1       566.5        659.8       736.8       781.3        994.6      978.51
6  Uganda Sales                     244.1       249.1        344.1       262.7        279.0       406.5       500.0        485.0       472.6
7  Kenya Sales                      215.0       281.0        170.2       110.0        157.0       166.5       150.0        289.1       258.4
8  Total Sales                      459.1       530.1        514.3       372.7         436          573         650        774.1      730.98
9  Supply to Uganda                 411.4       356.1        448.9       457.5        503.9       571.7       632.8        706.1       720.7
10  Losses (GIWh)                    166.3       106.0        103.8       193.8        223.8       163.8       131.3        220.5      247.5
Losses (%)                             27          17          17           34          34           22          17          22          25
12  Maximum Demand (MW)              110.6       IOZ4         103.6        94.6        110.8       122.8       136.2         151        15Z2
13  Load Factor                     64.5%        6Z5%        68.1%       68.3%        67.9%       68.5%        65.5%       75.1%       71.0%






53                                 Annex 3
PROJECT COST AS OF JUNE 30, 1994
FC          LC         Total
US$         US$         US$
OWEN FALLS POWER STATION
A) civil works
Underwater inspection & repairs (001)        5,906,434     245,036    6,151,470
Power station repairs (002)                  2,585,996     216,027    2,802,023
Re-waterproofing of station roofs (003)        524,058      11,567      535,625
Sub-Total                                    9,016,488     472,630    9,489,118
B) equipment
Dam gate equipment (021)                     1,434,528       7,940    1,442,468
Transformers & ancillary equipment(024)        245,645           0     245,645
Cables & accessories (025)                   1,402,280       1,306    1,403,586
Switchgear & substation equipment(026)         511,197      80,193     591,390
Intake & draft tube gates (027)              2,117,464           0    2,117,464
Inspection for rehab of transformers(030)       31,579           0      31,579
Consultants' houses (028)                      237,485           0     237,485
Consultants' vehicles (029)                    122,651       1,765      124,416
Sub-total                                    6,102,829      91,204    6,194,033
Owen Falls turbines & generators (023)      22,857,194           0   22,857,194
Supervising consultants (055)                2,357,900           0    2,357,900
Total Owen Falls Rehabilitation
IDAfCDC/ODA                                 40,334,411     563,834   40,898,245



54                                 Annex 3
TRANSMISSION & DISTR. EQUIP.                 FC US$       LC US$    Total US$
Radio communication equipment(l04)             631,524        9,913     641,438
Power transformers (201)                      1,147,905          0    1,147,905
Distribution transformers (202)               2,419,353          0    2,419,353
Cables & accessories (203)                    1,586,986          0    1,586,986
Overhead line equipment (204)                  510,032           0      510,032
Distribution pillars (205)                    1,664,542          0    1,664,542
Tools and test equipment (206)                 703,758           0      703,758
Automotive Workshop tools & equip(207)         146,231           0       146,231
Transformer repair materials (209)              16,826           0        16,826
Distribution transformers (230 A 1864)         292,708           0      292,708
Radio transceiver sets (230 A 1866)             39,415           0       39,415
Circuit breakers (231)                         157,587           0       157,587
HV & LV overhead lines (236)                  1,687,533      48,923    1,736,456
Landrover repairs (208B)                       118,352           0       118,352
pecialized vehicles (208C)                    1,908,713      28,750    1,937,463
Specialized vehicles (208D)                    304,640           0      304,640
Specialized vehicles (208E)                    114,692           0      114,692
Suzuki vehicles (208A)                          89,121         971       90,092
Substations and accessories (401)            10,491,433          0   10,491,433
Pole Plant Refurbishment (238)                  60,026           0       60,026
Exchange Difference Gain (406)                       0           0            0
GEC Meters                                      52,930           0       52,930
Sub-Total                                  24,144,307      88,557   24,232,864
OFFICE EQUIP & BILLING COMPUTER
Photocopy machine (230 A 1867)                  11,014           0        11,014
Airconditioners(230A 1868)                      13,036           0        13,036
Emergency items (230 A 1869)                  1,720,077          0    1,720,077
Office equipment (230 A 1870)                  262,189           0      262,189
Billing Computer (235)                         663,912           0      663,912
Sub Total                                   2,670,228           0    2,670,228



55                                 Annex 3
ENGINEERING & SUPERVISION
T & D Consultant main contact (041)           1,221,661           0    1,221,661
emergency items (042)                         107,030           0      107,030
Tender docs revision (043)                     83,242           0       83,242
civil works attachment (044)                   36,270           0       36,270
additional services SCL (045)                  99,320           0       99,320
supervision substations (049)               2,009,379           0    2,009,379
additional services (050)                     245,058           0      245,058
supervision SCADA (051)                       384,572           0      384,572
additional services amendment no. 8           243,592           0      243,592
Sub-Total                                   4,430,124            0    4,430,124
STUDIES                                      FC US $      LC US $    Total US $
Kampala rehabilitation study (046)              285,818           0      285,818
Priortization study (047)                        89,491           0       89,491
Western line study (048)                        536,617           0      536,617
Accounting study (056)                          111,262           0      111,262
Man power study (057)                           150,435           0      150,435
Billing and collection study (058)              186,029           0      186,029
Tariff study (061)                              190,663           0      190,663
National electrification study (062)            505,764           0      505,764
Consulting Services/Amendment 8 (053)           112,312           0      112,312
System analyst salary                           247,466           0      247,466
Passages for Experts                             38,131           0       38,131
Sub-Total                                     2,453,988           0    2,453,988
STAFF TRAINING (237)                            982,294           0      982,294
POWER III PREPARATION
Owen Falls extension study (060)              3,494,391           0    3,494,391
Power III Preliminary Expenses                  165,756       2,034      167,790
Sub-Total                                     3,660,147       2,034    3,662,181
UEB Staff salaries & wages, stationery etc.          0    1,440,967    1,440,967
Interest during construction                 18,287,843           0   18,287,843
TOTAL UEB COMPONENTS                         96,963,342    2,095,392   99,058,734
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO MINISTRY              2,953,218           0    2,953,218
POWER II IDA/CDC/UEB/ODA                     99,916,560    2,095,392  102,011,952



56                                   Annex 3
OTHER COMPONENTS UP TO DEC. 1993:
SCADA (239) (NDF)                                5,040,684        4,779    5,045,463
PLC (403) (NORAD)                                1,831,542            0    1,831,542
TOTAL POWER II                                106,788,786    2,100,171  108,888,957



57                                      Annex 3
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD
POWER II PROJECT
STATEMENT OF DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS AS AT 30 JUNE, 1994
SOURCE OF FUNDS
CONTRIBUTORS
Total   Budget    Note       1994        1992
('000)             US$ '000   US$ '000
International Development Association (IDA)        SDR       29,500
US$          868             40,168     32,478
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)         GBP         9,601            16,277      16,157
CDC Interest Income                                                                  2
Overseas Development Administration (ODA)          GBP        16,460            27,156      23,369
Uganda Electricity Board                           US$        17,200             4,156       2,508
Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                      SDR         4,000             5,041       4,105
Norwegian Agency for Development
Cooperation (NORAD)                               NOK        16,500              1,832      1,832
Total Contribution                                                      1       94,632      80,449
OTHER SOURCES:
Creditors                                                               2       14,256     20,049
Total Funds Disbursed                                                          108,888    100,498
EXPENDITURE
Work-in-progress expenditure                                           3       108,888     98,498
LOAN REPAYMENT - Commonwealth
Development Corporation
Total Expenditure                                                              108,888     98,498
Balance at Bank                                                         4          143       2,000



58                                       Annex 3
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD - POWER II PROJECT
STATEMENT OF DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS AS AT 30 JUNE, 1994
NOTES TO THE STATEMENT - 30 JUNE, 1994
2.     CREDITORS                                                     1994          1992
US$ '000      US$ '000
CDC - accrued commitment, legal and negotiation fees                    1,798           261
Uganda Govemment - loan interest accrued (IDA)                         12,458         9,468
Overseas suppliers (letters of credit)                                      -         10,314
Sundry creditors                                                            -             6
Sub-Total                                                              14,256        20,049
3.     WORK-IN-PROGRESS EXPENDITURE
Owen Falls Dam                                                         38,541        33,576
Transmission and distribution                                          33,780        35,276
Engineering and supervision                                             3,580          3,580
Studies and training                                                    9,853         8,318
Technical assistance to Ministry of Energy                              2,953         2,853
Commitment fees (CDC)                                                     623           621
Negotiation and legal fees (CDC)                                           38            38
Interest - IDA Uganda Electricity Board                                 7,013         5,945
- Ministry of Energy                                         1,139           752
Interest - CDC                                                          5,081         3,547
Interest - ODA                                                          3,898         2,599
Bank charges - IDA Special Account                                         67            54
Bank charges - Barclays Bank                                               21            21
Power III preliminary expenses                                            168           167
Stationery and sundry expenses                                            123           118
Rehabilitation allowance                                                  459           303
Medical expenses                                                           49            34
Senior Staff salaries                                                     152           100
Wages (Junior and Intermediate staff)                                     657           424
Loan charges NDF                                                           44            44
Interest    NDF                                                           363           128
Experts Salaries                                                          248             0
Experts Passages                                                           38             0
Sub-Total                                                             108,888        98,498
4.   BALANCE AT BANK
Citibank New York (IDA Account)                                             0           (53)
Barclays Bank PLC, London (CDC Account)                                     0           410
Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited (CDC)                              143          1,643
Sub-Total                                                                 143         2,000



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1560-UG)
PART III: STATISTICAL AND OTHER
PROJECT INFORMATION






61
UGANDA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
CREDIT 1560-UG
PART III: STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Group Loans and Credits
Amount
Loanl          (VS$                                        Tear of
Credit Tftfe     miflion)             SPurpose              Approvaf      Status
Expansion and improvement of
Loan 0279-UG        8.4    transmission and distribution        1961       Closed
to UEB                   system and construction of small
hydroelectric and diesel plants.
To finance the importation of
Credit 1252-UG               agricultural inputs, spare parts
(Second          70      and raw materials for industry      1982       Closed
Reconstruction              and transport and other largely
Program Project)             non-capital needs of high
economic priority
Credit 1434-UG               To assist the Government to
(Second Technical    15.0    address some of the major           1984        Closed
Assistance)                weaknesses in its capacity to
manage and rehabilitate the
economy
Credit 1561-UG               To assist in the promotion of
(Petroleum        5.1      hydrocarbon exploration by the     1985        Closed
Exploration                oil industry; and strengthen
Promotion)                 GSMD in the administration and
supervision of exploration
promotion and development of
petroleum resources
To continue with the program of
Credit 2268-IJG              rehabilitation of the power
(Third Power       125      system begun under the Second      1991       Ongoing
Project))                 Power Project, develop Uganda's
hydro resources, and expand the
transmission and distribution
system to provide reliable and
least-cost supplies of electricity.



62
Table 2. Project Timetable
Steps In
Pro0 fr7  ~ct Cyc               q'(a 0t  nnecf4vate            Ac 0Sltua(:(Date  
. .   . . . . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . . . . . .   . .   . .   .   .   . .   . .   . . .   . .   :. . .::::::::::
Date of first presentation to                                     Obtober 1982
IDA
Preparation mission                                            January 1984
Appraisal Mission               January 1984                    July 1984
Credit Negotiation              October 1984                  February 1985
Board Approval                December 1984                 March 19, 1985
Signing                                                  May, 30, 1985
Effectiveness                 March 1985                    June 26, 1986
Project Completion            December31, 1989                    19971J
Credit Closing                June 30, 1990               December 31, 1993
1/     The IDA-financed transmission and distribution rehabilitation is expected to be
completed in March 1995, while the ODA-financed Owen Falls Rehabilitation is
expected to be completed in early 1997.



63
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
IOA fisca(Tear andSemester       Cumu(ative             Cumurative        A ctua( as Percent
Dis6ursements         Dis6ursements         ofAlppraisaf
lAppraisafEstimate          lctuaIs              {Estimate
VS$                    'VEm((ion)  VS$ EQ(mifrton)
FY86 December 31, 1985             3.5                     0                     0
June 30, 1986                 8.5                    0                     0
FY87 December 31, 1986             16.5                    0                     0
June 30, 1987                23.5                    2.6                 11 %
FY88 December 31, 1987             25.5                   2.8                  11%
June 30, 1988                27.5                    3.3                 12 %
FY89 December 31, 1988             28.0                   3.9                  14 %
June 30, 1989                28.4                    5.7                 20 %
FY90 December 31, 1989             28.7                   8.3                  29%
June 30, 1990                28.8                   11.6                 40 %
FY91 December 31, 1990              0                     19.4                 67 %
June 30, 1991                 0                     24.0                 83 %
FY92 December 31, 1991              0                     29.9                104 %
June 30, 1992                 0                     30.8                 107 %
FY93 December 31, 1992              0                     31.7                110 %
June 30, 1993                 0                     36.2                 126 %
FY94 December 31, 1993              0                     39.5                137 %
June 30, 1994                 0                     40.2                 140 %
Note: The last disbursement took place on April 20, 1994.



64
4. Project Implementation
Table 4.1 Contract Completion Dates
OWEN FALLS POWER STATION
A) Civil works
Underwater inspection & repairs (001)                                                                      Sept 1990
Power station repairs (002)                                                                                June 1990
Re-waterproofing of station roofs (003)                                                                    Sept 1988
B) Equipment
Dam gate equipment (021)                                                                                   Oct 1992
Transformers & ancilliary equipment (024)                                                                  Aug 1993
Cables & accessories (025)                                                                           Not yet fully completed
Switchgear & substation equipment (026)                                                              Not yet fully completed
Inspection for rehab of transformers (030)                                                                 Apr 1991
Intake and Draft Tube gates (027)
Consultants' houses (028)                                                                                     1989
Consultants' vehicles (029)                                                                                   1989
C) Turbine & generator rehab & uprating (023)
1st Unit                                                                                                   June 1991
2nd Unit                                                                                                    July 1991
3rd Unit                                                                                                    Sep 1991
4th Unit                                                                                                    Apr 1992
5th Unit                                                                                                    Feb 1993
6th Unit                                                                                                    Nov 1993
7th Unit                                                                                                    Jul 1994
8th Unit                                                                                                    Jan 1995
9th Unit                                                                                                    Jul 1995
10th Unit                                                                                                   Jan 1996
Upgrade of 2 units                                                                                           Jan 1997
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT
Radio conumunication equipment (104)                                                                        May 1991
Power transformers (201)                                                                                    May 1992
Distribution transformers (202)                                                                             May 1992
MV & LV cables & accessories (203)                                                                          Oct 1990
Overhead line equipment (204)                                                                               Mar 1992
Distribution pillars (205)                                                                                  Oct 1990
Tools and test equipment (206)                                                                           Not Completed
Automotive Workshop tools & equipment (207)                                                                 Oct 1990
Transformer repair materials (209)                                                                          Jun 1993
Distribution transformers (230 A 1864)                                                                      Oct 1990
Radio tranceiver sets (230 A 1866)                                                                          Oct 1990
Circuit breakers (231)                                                                                        1990
HV & LV overhead lines Kampala (302)                                                                        Oct 1993
Landrover spares (208B)                                                                                       1991
Specialized vechicles (208C)                                                                                  1991
Specialized vechicles (208D)                                                                                  1991
Specialized vechicles (208E)                                                                                  1991
Suzuki vechicles (208A)                                                                                       1991
Substations and accessories (401)                                                                           Sept 1994
SCADA & PLC                                                                                                 end 1994
Photocopy machine (230 A 1867)                                                                              May 1990
Air conditioners (230 A 1868)                                                                               Sep 1990
Emergency items distribution (230 A 1869)                                                                   Feb 1990
Office equipment (230 A 1870)                                                                               Jun 1990
Billing computer (235)                                                                                     May 1990
Source: UEB



65
Table 4.2. Studies
Project Component/Contract                        Compretion (Date
Kampala network rehabilitation study (046)                         Nov 1990
Prioritization study (047)                                         Aug 1989
Western line study (048)                                           Dec 1991
Accounting study (056)                                             Oct 1990
Billing and collection study (058)                                   1987
Stores & workshop study                                              1987
Man power study (060)                                                1990
Tariff study (061)                                                 Aug 1990
National electrification study (062)                               Feb 1993
SCADA study                                                        Dec 1992
Owen Falls extension study (060)                                     1992
Source: UEB



Table 4.3. Comparison of UEB's Selected Indicators
11986                 198788                                     1989                      990                 199               1991993
______       _::_:_::_S__              Actual     SAP.1 AetUaI :S SAA            Actl  :  SAR   '  ACual4           SAR        ActUal      SAR   ' ACtu:l  ACtu          :   AtUal...
Installed capaC;tY at OWen
Falls hydroplant (MW)1'         156       150        162       150        168        150        174         150         180        150        180       159         162          168
Peak Demand (MW)                    I                                 --I
133       107        136       104        1481       95         156        111         164         123        1741      136         151          157
Net Generation                                 I                    I                                I
(Gwh)                           660       636        692       618        766       566         818         660        873         737        926       781         995          978
Sales (GWh)                     597                  626       514        6931      373         7391        436        788         572        83-5 1    648         774          731
Transmission and                                         I                    I                     t                       I                     I
distribution lossCsi' (% of                              I                                                                  I                     I
UgandaSupply)                    14 1      30         12 1      24         11 1      43          10 1        45         n/a         29        n/a 1      21          31           34
Number of connections                                    IT
('000)                                                         92.8                 80.8            +      95.8             1    103.9            1   114.8        110.8        116.9
Number of employees                                                                  1
I(')                                                   1      1.7           1      1.9            1       2.4            1       2.7            1     2.9         3.0          3.4
Connections per employee         26                   28        56         301       43          32          40          5 1        39                   39          37           34
Rate of retum On fixed                                   I                    I                                             IO
assets(/O)                       5        14          61      -88          71       74           7         -18           81       -11        n/aI         I          I            0
Current ratio                   2.6 1      3.0       2.9        1.2       4.5        1.6         5.9 1      0.8         5.7         1.7       7.1 1      0.7         0.8         1.4
Debt service coverage                                    I
5.5       3.9        5.2      -1.1        9.8       1.0        20.1        2.6         1.7         0.2        1.8       11         6.5          2.4
Number of months of
receivables                       5        8.6       3.0        6.9       3.0        7.5         3.0        5.2         3.01        8.1       3.01       5.6        6.5          8.9
Annual average revenue of
Uganda sales (USh/kWh)                     0.1                  0.6                  2.7                    5.1                     9.6                 18.9       41.7         73.5
Revenue of Uganda Sales
(USS/kWh)                       1.4 1      0.7       2. 1       1.3       2.6        2.5         2.6        2.0         2.9         2.1       3.4 1      2.4        3.8          6.7
Source: UEB, Power ll SAR, and UEB s audited accounts
LI       Owen Falls accountsfor almost all generating capacity in the grid system.
2/       Includes technical and non-technical losses.



67
5. Project Cost and Financing
Table 5.1 Project Costs: Comparison of BAR Estimates and Actual Costs
(VS$ milUtonJ
-  -mject Component                     -    RjEstimate                       Actut(Projct Cost
Local    TForeign         Totaf        toca(       'Forwen       Total
Owen Falls power station rehabilitation
a) Civil Works                                  0           4.4          4.4          0.5          9.0          2.5
b) Equipment                                   0.6          9.2          9.8            0         34.4         34.4
Transmission and distribution equipment,       4.5          17.9         22.4            0         33.8         33.8
etc.
Engineering and supervision                    0.8          2.9           3.7           0           6.8          6.8
Studies and Training                           1.8           1.4          3.2          1.4          6.2          7.7
TA to MTTP                                                  3.4           3.4           0           3.0          3.0
Total Base Cost                               7.7         38.8          46.5          1.9         93.2         95.2
Physical Contingencies                         0.6          4.7           5.3
Price Contingencies                            0.9          5.8           6.7
Total Project Cost                            9.2         49.3          58.5
Interest During Construction                  11.8          3.1          14.9         18.2                      18.2
Total Financing Required                     21.0         52.4         73.4          20.1         93.2        113.4
Note:    Actual costs include NDF and NORAD-financed PLC and SCADA.
As of December 31, 1994.
Table 5.2 Project Financing
(US$ million]
Source                          Estimate in SAR                Actual              Difference
IDA (under Credit 1560-UG)                                        28.8                     40.2              + 40%
IDA (under Credit 1434-UG)                                                                 0.86
ODA                                                                 12                     32.5              +171%
CDC                                                                 13                     16.3               +25%
DOF                                                                n/a                      5.0
NORAD                                                              n/a                       1.8
UEB                                                               19.6                        4               -80%
Creditors                                                                                  12.7
Total Project Cost                                              73.4                    113.4               +55%
Source:    UEB - Status at December 31, 1994.
Note:    EIB and JICA financed additional T& D Rehabilitation and AfDB and ODA financed
training and studies.



68
Table 5.3 IDA Disbursements
. .... .. ... ...Aettudafftb)~~is6rsemeti    6 Cteoi
... ..C ..        ry(in tfiusa44 of ~VS$)
(1) Civil Works, mechanical and electrical
equipment                                                7,231
(2) Transmission and distribution works
and ancilliary items                                    23,196
(3) Uprating and strengthening of
transmission lines                                        287
(4) (a) Consultant services                                  4,712
(b) Technical assistance to MTTP                         2,875
(5) Engineering and design work for the
next hydropower station                                  1,867
TOTAL                                                   40,168



Table 6: Economic Impact
tINVESTMENT    INCREMENTAL.                                                                              NET
YEAR                  SALES                     COST          O&M COST                       VALUE OF SALES                      BENEFTIS         BENEFITS
Vgandi     Kr"a      Tansamia                                          Xpra            Tanania          Vnda
GWh        GWh C      GWh         US$'OOO          US$5V00         US cents/lkWA    UScejat4/kWk    US cents/kWh      US$00oo          US$Goo
1987             0          0         0             2,175                0                 0               0               0               0            -2,175
1988             8          4         0             4,634               28                 0               0               0               0            -4,662
1989            25         12         0            27,745              140                 0               0               0               0           -27,885
1990           126         59          0           21,772              229                 0               0               0               0           -22,001
1991           206         97          0           43,047              404               0.4             6.3              1.7          3,993           -39,458
1992           364        171          0           16,699              471               0.4             6.3 j           2.4           9,183            -7,988
1993           425        199          1            6,698              499               0.2             6.3             3.4          14,718            7,522
1994           449       211           3           11,323              545               0.2             6.3             4.0          18,542            6,675
1995           491       230          7             6,300              570               0.2             6.3             4.0          20,452            13,582
1996           514       241          8             6,300              596               0.2             6.3             4.0           L 21,515         14,6191
1997-2024        537        252         45                0               596               0.2             6.3             4.0 J        24,744 [         24,148          c
Net Present Value @                                                                                                                                      11,858
12%
IRR                                                                                                                                           _13.6%
Notes:
1.      All values are expressed in 1985 prices.
2.      1994 values are preliminary and 1995 and 1996 values are projections.
3.      Capital investment costs per UEB data.
4.      O&M costs. 0.4% of investment costs, according to the SAR.
5.      Plant output when rehabilitated is estimated at about 980 GWh and total sales at about 834 GWh (based on the SAR)
6       Above results are preliminary asfinal data on project costs and benefits was not available because the project was
notfully completed at the time of the preparation of the PCPR



Table 7. Status of Compliance with Major Covenants
4reement. Section  :                :Descpt'ir  of Covenant::                                                                                   Co:men                      S..::
DCA           4.01          2       The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to enable UEB to collect promptly payments for  UEB has a debt swap agreement with the   CP
electricity supplies from Govemment organizations                                        Govemment
DCA           4.02          13      The Borrower shall consult IDA on the development of the next hydroelectric station       in compliance                                C
DCA           4.03          2       The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures necessary to enable UEB to eam a rate of return as provided in Tariffs were increased in September 1987,  CP
section 4.03 of the PA; and (b) approve tariff increases sufficient to enable UEB to achieve the said  August 1991, June 1992, July 1993 and
objectives                                                                               August 1994.
DCA           4.04          10      The Borrower shall carry out a national forestry inventory and studies of urban household energy  In compliance.                       C
utilization and fuelwood marketing according to TORs and timetable acceptable to IDA     Forestry inventory was carried out by the
Forestry Department in agreement with IDA.
Household energy survey was carried out.
DCA           4.05          5       The Borrower shall take measures to strengthen the Energy Department in MPPT along the lines of the  In compliance.                    C
ESMAP report " Uganda - Institutional Strengthening in the Energy Sector" (January 1985)  Advisors, consultancy services, stafftraining,
office equipment, and vehicles.
PA           2.05          5       UEB shall in consultation with the Borrower and IDA implement the findings of the study on its  Study completed in 1990.               C         o
organizational structure financed under the second technical assistance credit (No. 1434)
PA           2.06          5       UEB shall: a) not later than June 30, 1986, carry out a study on its training and manpower development a) Study completed in 1990.   a) CD
needs to 1995; and b) implement the recommendations of the study in accordance with a timetable  b) In compliance                    b) C
acceptable to IDA
PA           2.07          5       UEB shall: a) carry out a study to review its billing and collection system by March 31, 1986; and b)   a) Study completed in 1987   a) CD
implement the study recommendations by September 30, 1986                                b) Partial compliance                       b) CP
PA           2.08          5       UEB shall not later than March 31, 1986, implement recommendations of the stores and workshop  Study ,ompleted in Feb. 1987.          CD
studies financed by the ODA
PA           2.09          5       UEB shall: a) carry out a tariff study according to TORs acceptable to IDA; and b) implement the study a) Study completed in 1990     CD
recommendations by January 1, 1987                                                       b) In compliance in 1993
PA           3.04          5       UEB shall: a) appoint a Project Coordinator by June 30, 1985; and b) appoint four Regional  Delayed compliance.                       CD
Engineers/Managers by December 31, 1985
PA           4.01          I       UEB shall: a) have its accounts and financial statements and the Special Account audited by  Delayed compliance. FY 93 audits received  CD
independent auditors; b) furnish to IDA not later than six months after each fiscal year certified copies  in January 1995.
of its financial statements, and the auditors report; c) fumish to IDA other information conceming
accounts as required
PA         4.02 (a)        9       UEB shall provide IDA with a semi-annual report of outstanding accounts receivable.      In compliance                                 C
PA         4.02 (b)        9       The semi-annual report mentioned in (a) shall include the dates and amounts of arrears by major  In compliance.                        C
customer categories as of June 30 and December 31 of every year.
PA         4.02 (c)        9       UEB shall maintain relationship acceptable to the Association between outstanding accounts receivable                                 NC
and its annual operating revenues (this relationship was be specified in a supplemental letter).



Agreement   Section            T7ype                                      1)escnption of Covenant                                                   Comments                      status
PA           4.03           2       UEB shall: a) charge a tariff to ensure that it achieves an annual rate of return of not less than 5% of the Not in compliance. Covenant deferred by  NC
average current net value of UEB's fixed assets in operation. UEB shall in consultation with IDA adjust one year (SPN March 1987).
this rate upward as and when economic circumstances justify, with the objective of achieving a rate of
6% in FY87, 7% in FY88 and FY89, and 8% in FY90; b) befor June 30 in each fiscal year prepare
forecasts to review whether it would meet the requirements in (a), and fumish the results of such review
to IDA; c) if the review shows that UEB would not meet the requirements in (a), UEB shall take all
necessary measures, including adjustments of the tariffs, in order to meet the requirements.
PA           4.04           2       UEB shall make a Quarterly Review of its tariff and increase expediously whenever necessary to  Tariffs were increased in Sept. 1987, Aug.  CP
maintain the rate of rctum specified in Section 4.03, and submit it to IDA within one month of the close 1991, June 1992, July 1993 and Aug. 1994.
of each calendar quarter
PA           4.05           2       UEB shall revalue its assets in accordance with methods acceptable to UEB and IDA            Carried out in 1991.                          C
PA           4.06           2       UEB shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenus of UEB .... shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated                                 C
maximum debt service requirements of UEB for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of UEB                                                          l
including the debt to be incurred
PA           4.07           2       UEB shall consult with IDA prior to making any major investments and changes to the proposed                                               C
investments
Covenant Types                                                                                                                          Present Status:
1        =         Accounts/Audits                                  8        =         Indigenous people                               C         =         covenant complied with
2                  Financial performance/revenue                    9        =         Monitoring, review and reporting                 CD       =         complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries                   10        =         Project implementation not                      CP        =         complied with partially
3        =         Fow and utilization of project funds                                covered by categories 1-9                        NC       =         not complied with
4        =         Counterpart funding                              11       =         Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5        =         Management aspects of the project                                   budgetary or other resource allocation
or executing agency                             12        =         Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6        =         Environmental covenants                                             regulatory/institutional action
7        =         Involuntary resettlement                         13       =         Other



72
8. Use of Bank Resources
Table 8.1. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
P4nnedV         (P~*vsedlZ            Actual
'Ot L.           IW                     Wee:iee4  VS$                   VS$ee    _  Vees   ____
Preparation to
appraisal            n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a         44.5    n/a
Appraisal             n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a         45.3    n/a
Negotiations
through               n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a           7.2    n/a
Board approval
Supervision           n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a         118.9    n/a
Completion            n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a           7.0    n/a
TOTAL                n/a       n/a        n/a        n/a        222.9    n/a
1/    Planned and revised staff weeks available only from FY89. Dollar amounts available only
for FY94.



Table 8.2. Bank Resources: Missions
Pre-    Jan 1984
appraisal  __ ____
June 1984    25FA-EC                              n/a      Mission projections showed shortfall in UEB's
cash flow for 1985.
Appraisal  Jul 1984     4                FA-PE-EC-Co
Supervision _____
May 1985     1          6          FA             n/a      No operating or financial data available.
Nov 1985     1                     FA            n/a
Apr 1986     1         29          FA             1        Credit effectiveness delayed, UEB's financial
position weak, problems with transportation.
Aug 1986                           FA                      UEB has revenue problems due to devaluation and
poor collection.
Mar 1987               6       PE-FA-OA                     Need to raise tariffs. Appointnment of consultants
delayed. Billing and collections deteriorated.
Financial data unreliable. Project classified as a
problem project. Major feeder breakdown in
Aug_1986__FA__UEB_hasrevenue_probems_due to dvaluation anKampala.
Oct 1987     2         6         PE-Co            3        Project start-up delayed by two years. Adequate
UEB's financial data unobtainable.
June 1988    3          4       PE-FA-EC          2        Not in compliance with financial covenants. UEB
not able to finance local costs. Delays at Central
Bank.
May 1989      1                    PE             2        Project under-funded. UEB's weak finacial



~:SX S)fh^ P}} je a g(n4Yt  zM eof   <11*y  $e#f.~e    b7Poet~p  fP~~
40 .     ;                                                       ,S: 
situation and unsatisfactory collection
performance. UEB in non-compliance with
financial covenants.
Nov 1989     213                 PE-FA            2        UEB's financial position is precarious. Delays in
payments to contractors.
Feb 1990     316               FA-OA-PE           2Slow establishmnent of letters of credit. UEB rate
of retun less than covenanted. Covenanted reports
on accounts receivable not prepared.
Sept 1991    19PE                                 2Disbursements behind schedule. Financial
performance rated 3.
May 1992     111                   PE             2High receivables; audits overdue; delays.
Financial performance rated 3. 
Nov 1992     39                PE-FA-FA           2High receivables.
Apr 1993     36                PE-FA-Co           2Two special accounts opened; UEB not in
compliance with rate of return covenant.
Mar 1994     223                 PE-FA            2UEB's collection performance had deteriorated.
Delays in Owen Falls generating unit
refurbishment. Project cost under estimated.
Completion  June 1994     1         5          EC             n/a
Overall performance rating: 1 = Problem free or minor problem
2 = Moderate problems
3 = Major problems
Specialization codes: PE = Power Engineer
FA = Financial Analyst
EC = Economist
OA = Operations Analyst
Co = Consultant
The Second Power Project was supervised together with the Third Power Project (Cr. 2268-UG).



Table 9. INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDING DEC. 31, 1986 -1993
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD (UEB)
1986           1987         1988           1989            1990           1991            1992           1993
Sales (GWh)
Domestic                              139.00          149.30       160.70         153.20         274.00          328.00         263.30          272.50
Commercial                             72.30           70.60        30.90          29.20          37.00           33.00          32.70           29.80
Strret Lighting                        11.00           11.00         8.70           3.90           3.00            5.00           6.70            6.40
General                                36.00           68.30        23.40          46.60          47.00           67.00         109.40           96.70
Industrial                             40.80           38.90        39.40          46.40          45.00           65.00          72.70           71.00
Total Retail                          299.10          338.10       263.10         279.30         406.00          498.00         484.80          476.40
Bulk Kenya                            231.00          176.20       110.00         156.60         166.30          150.00         289.10          258.30
Bulk Tanzania                           0.00            00.00         .00           00.00           .00            00.00           .00            1.20
Total Sales                           530.10          514.30       373.10         435.90         572.30          648.00         773.90          735.90
Tariff Uganda Shs/KWh
Domestic                                0.10            0.30         2.90           6.50          12.00           19.40          41.40           65.90
Commercial                              0.10            1.10         0.70           8.40          11.00           18.70          53.20           87.60
Strret Lighting                         0.00            1.70         0.10           7.60           6.00           14.60          47.80           89.20
Industrial                              0.10            0.20         3.10           5.30          11.00           19.90          39.60           73.50
General                                 0.10            0.50         4.10           4.40           9.60           28.80          51.80           95.10
Bulk Kenya                              0.10            0.20         0.40           5.40           3.20            4.80           6.10            3.40
Bulk Tanzania                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
Revenues (million Sha)                   __
Domestic                                 14.5           46.2         463.9         793.9         2,525.4         5,502.3       10,035.2                        Ul
Commercial                                6.5           87.1          22.9         246.1           406.0          616.0         1,741.0
Strret Lighting                           0.3           18.3           1.2          29.7            18.0           73.0           320.0
Industrial                                4.0            7.9         123.5         246.1           517.0         1,332.0        4,327.0
General                                   3.8           31.4          95.0         101.1           431.0         1,872.0        3,768.0
Total Retail                             29.1          190.9         706.5        1,416.9        3,897.4         9,395.3       20.191.2        29.044.0
Bulk Kenya                               20.8           31.3          39.3         502.3           528.7          721.4         1,765.1           885.1
Bulk Tanzania                                                                                                                                     109.1
Tariff Increase
Total Power Supply                       49.9          222.2         745.8        1,919.2        4,426.1        10,116.7       21,956.3        30,038.2
Meter Revenue & Others                    0.0            1.0           6.6          16.0            16.4          124.1           664.5           669.3
Total Revenue                            49.9          223.2         752.4        1,935.2        4,442.5        10.240.8       22,620.8        30.707.5
Operating Expenses (million Sha)
Fuel- Diesel Stations                     2.6            3.3          12.3          55.1           128.4          293.0           364.1           402.0
Salaries & Wages                          7.9           54.4         186.0         339.7         1,004.8         2,003.5        3,474.4         9,183.0
Repair & Maintanance                     19.9           43.8          94.1         451.3         1,690.8         2,805.4        5,601.5         2,315.4
Transport & Travel                        7.3           35.7          62.4         253.3           376.8          632.5           839.2         3,069.7
Others                                    8.2          142.6         297.5         965.3         1,341.2         3,242.0        8,495.6         3,789.7
Depreciation                              0.4            2.6           1.8          18.7           105.9          104.7         1,765.7        13,886.0
Total Operating Expenses                 46.31         282.5         654.01       2,083.4        4,647.9         9.081.0       20,540.5        32,645.8
Net Operating Income (Loss)               3.6          -59.3          98.4        -148.2          -205.3         1,159.8        2,080.3        -1,938.3
Interest Expenses                         4.8           16.5         220.0         105.0           212.0          122.0           -89.5         5,673.6
|Exchange Gain (Loss)                         _                            _                             __________15.6                           578.3
Net Income (Loss)                        -1.2          -75.8        -121.6        -253.2          417.3          1,037.8        2,185.4        -7,033.6
|Avwage Plant In Operation (Shs million)  25.31          67.5r       132.41         814.41        1,803.01     114.809.61      228.525.1       394,561.7
Rate Of Retum (%)                        14%1           -88%|         74%1          -18%1          -11%|            1%|             1%|             0%9
Source: UEB 's audited accounts



Table 10. BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31, FOR THE YEARS 1986 - 93
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD (UEBI
1986          1987          1988          1989          1990            1991           1992            1993
ASSETS                                   SHs mlaon      SHs million   SHs mi0n      SHs milion    SHs milion      SHs miAWn      SHs mil6lon     SHs milan
Fixed Assets
Plant In Operation                      30.7           65.0         186.6        1088.9         2262.5       227591.4        230795.2       564505.0
Transport, Tools & Eqt.                  9.7            87.4        105.5         629.3          823.6                         5912.9         6139.3
Accmulated Depreciation                 15.1           42.8         136.8         244.7          953.7           104.7         7144.6        11084.4
Net Plant in Operation                 25.3          109.6        155.2        1473.5          2132.4       227486.7       229563.5        559559.9
Plant Under Construction                    I _                     464.6        7289.7        22953.3        65529.3         97305.6        19680.7
Net Fixed Assets                        25.3           109.6        619.8        8763.1        25085.8       293016.0        326869.1       579240.6
[Investments                             0.041          0.041        0.041         0.041           0.041          0.041          0.041           0.39
CuTent Asets                                               .
Cash                                     1.0             3.4        269.2        1194.7         2360.1         5680.1          4848.1         5470.3
Accounts Recievable                     35.7           128.3        464.5         829.4         2983.6          4756.0        11949.9        22256.1
Stores                                  15.0           41.2         125.3        1110.8         5975.4         5170.8          5170.1         9656.4
Total Cunent Assets                     51.7           172.9        859.0        3134.9        11319.1         15606.9        21968.1        37382.8
Total Assets                            77.1          282.5        1478.9       11898.1        36404.9       308622.9        348837.3       616623.8
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Retained Earnings(Deficitl              33.6          -10.3           4.2         709.4          408.4       221947.5         40000.0        50416.7
Revaluation Surplus                                                                                            2727.9       227819.9        463167.8
Long Term Debt                          23.7          140.5         912.0        7291.2        29415.4        62914.2         52189.9        76423.8
Pension Fund                             2.4             5.5          8.9          11.8           12.2           36.4            99.8          227.3
Total Equity & LIabilities              59.7           135.7        925.1        8012.4        29836.0       287626.0        320109.7       590235.6
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Creditors & Accruals                    13.4            88.6        332.2        3515.6         5925.2        20216.1         28726.5        19609.7
Consumer Deposits              0_7                       3.5_ 6-9L                 19.1_           34.6_          57.2|             r          122.7
Accrued Interest                         2.1            16.1        213.6         349.9          607.9           722.5        _               6654.7
Accrued Taxes                            1.1             1.1 |_1.1          _  _  __    _    _   _      __                        1.1             1.1
Bank Overdraft                                         37.5
Total Current Liabilities               17.3           148.8        553.8        3885.7         6568.9        20997.0         28727.6        26388.2
Total Equity & Liabilities              77.1          282.5|       1479.01      11898.1        36404.91      308622.91       348837.3       616623.8
[Current Ratio                           3.0 1           1.2 1        1.6           0.8            1.7             0.7            0.8             1.4
|DebtEquity Ratio (%)                    40%1          104%1         99%1          91%1            99%1           22%1            16%|           13%
Source: UEBs audited accounts



Table 11. FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1986-93
UGANDA ELECTRICITY BOARD (UEB)
1986           1987           1988           1989            1990             1991            1992             1993
Intemal Generation                           SHs milon      SHs million     SHs million   SHs million     SHs million      SHs million     SHs milOon       SHs miKan
Net operating income                         3.6           -59.3          98.4          -148.2          -205.3          1,159.8         2,080.3         -1,938.3
Depreciation & Provision                     2.1             6.11         16.6            32.0           189.4            201.3         5,504.4         11,069.8
Pension fund                                 0.5             3.0           3.5             2.8             0.4             24.2            63.5            127.4
Extraordinary items                         13.3            31.9'        136.1           958.4           116.2          1,281.8           974.8          4,559.2
Total Intemal Generation                  19.5            -18.3         254.6          845.0            100.8          2,667.0         8,623.0         13,818.1
Operating & Construction Requirements
Debt service                                 5.0            16.5         250.7          323.0            596.0            242.0         1,317.7          5,673.6
Increase/decrease in working capital         7.7             8.5         438.6          -904.2         5,774.6        -10,117.8        -2,081.9         17,064.4
Total operating requirement                 12.7            25.0         689.3          -581.2         6,370.6         -9,875.8           -764.2        22,738.0
Available from operationa                    6.8           -43.3         -434.7        1,426.2        -6.269.8         12,542.8         9.387.1         -8,919.8
Foreign exchange losses (unrealised)                                     224.4           488.8           911.9            356.9            15.6              0.0
Investment written off                                                      0.0            0.0             0.0              0.0             0.0              0.0
Interest accrued                            0.1             13.9         197.5           130.4           258.0
Construction Requirements                  21.6             93.8         609.8         8,266.4        13,610.2         47,079.7        29,427.6         33,172.4
Balance to be financed by:                  14.7           123.1         622.6         6,221.0        18,710.1         34,180.0        20,024.8         42,092.3
Equity                                                                                                                                                  10,416.7
IDA 1560 - UG                                              116.8         528.4         2,449.8         7,344.2         12,554.5         3,229.0         11,041.3
IDA P617 - UG                                                              0.0             0.0             0.0                            637.2
IDA 1434 - UG
CDC                                                                                    2,903.5         4,435.1          3,159.9         2,942.7
ODA Credit                                                                               764.5         6,061.3          7,337.4         4,941.7          4,265.7
ODA Technical Assistance Grant                                                                           356.9
NDF                                                                                                                       765.1         2,828.7          1,133.7
NORAD                                                                                                                                   1,932.4
OTHERS                                       7.2                            8.0 _                                       9,445.0          1,843.9        13,206.3
Capital contribution to fixed assets         7.3             3.4          82.8            91.1           497.1            895.5         1,640.1          2,028.6
Consumer's deposits                         0.2              2.8           3.4            12.1            15.6             22.6            29.2              0.0
TOTAL FUNDS                                 14.7           123.1         622.6         6,221.0        18,710.1         34,180.0        20,024.8         42,092.3
Stores                                      -6.4            26.1          84.2           985.4         4,864.6           -804.6            -0.7          4,160.7
Debtors                                     13.2            92.6         336.2           364.9         2,154.2          1,772.4         7,193.9         10,175.5
Creditors                                    0.6           -75.2        -285.1        -3,180.0        -2,409.6        -14,405.5        -8,443.0          2,106.0
Movemnet in net liquid funds                                        I_I
Bank and Cash balances                       0.3             2.5         265.7           925.5          1,165.4         3,320.0          -832.0            622.2
Bank Overdraft                               0.1           -37.5          37.5                 _______
Increase or Decrease in Working Capital      7.7              8.5        438.6          -904.2          5,774.6       -10,117.8         -2,081.9        17,064.4
|Debt Service Coverage                       3.91            -1.1|          1.0             2.61            0.21            1 1.0            6.51             2.4
Intemal Contribution to Construction         0.9s           -0.21           0.41           0.1             0.0              0.1              0.3              0.4
Source: UEBs audited accounts









IMAGING
Report No:       15194
Type: PCR



