CREDIT NUMBER 1560 UG
DOCV
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Power Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            ot, 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1560 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEKENT, dated                              , 1985, between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borro er) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administra-
tion (UK) intend to enter into an agreement (the ODA Grant
Agreement) for the purpose of making a grant (hereinafter called
the ODA Grant) to the Borrower in an amount of UK Pounds Sterling
ten million (UK Z 10.0 million) to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in said
Agreement;
(C) the   Uganda   Electricity  Board   (hereinafter  called
UEB), with the Guarantee of the Borrower, and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation intend to enter into an agreement (the
CDC Loan Agreement) for the purpose of making a loan (hereinafter
called the CDC Loan) to UEB in an amount of UK Pounds Sterling
eleven million (UK -11 million) to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in said
Agreement;
(D) part of the Project will be carried out by UEB with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to UEB part of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and UEB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,


﻿-2-
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and UEB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and UEB pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "MPPT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Power, Posts
and Telecommunications;
(e)  "UEB" means the Uganda Electricity Board established
under the Borrower's Electricity Act of 1964 (Cap. 135); and
(f) "CDC Guarantee Agreement" means the Agreement entered
into between the Borrower and CDC.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The    Association  agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-nine million five iiundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended


﻿-3-
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a Special Account in
the Bank of Uganda on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Assciation. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Sectio-x 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1


﻿-4-
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1995, and ending November 1,
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2004, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except with regard to Part C of the Project,
UEB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the pur-
poses of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the
Project through MPPT with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering and
public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause UEB to carry out Parts A and B of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agree-
ment all the obligations of UEB therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable UEB to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Credit to UEB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and UEB, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association which shall


﻿-5-
include: (i) repayment of principal in 20 years including a grace
period of 5 years; (ii) at an interest rate of 10% per annum; and
(iii) UEB to bear the foreign exchange risk.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purpo-
ses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried out by
UEB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take appropriate measures
to enable UEB to collect promptly payments for electricty sup-
plies from Government Ministries or Departments and parastatal
organizations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall consult the Association
on the development of the next hydroelectric station.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures
necessary to enable UEB to earn a rate of return as provided in
Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement and to this end; and (b)
approve tariff increases sufficient to enable UEB achieve the
said objective.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall carry out a national
forestry inventory and shall conduct studies into urban household
energy utilization and fuelwood marketing according to terms of
reference and a timetable acceptable to the Association.


﻿-6-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take measures to strengthen
the Energy Department in MPPT along the lines contained in the
UNDP/World Bank ESMAP Report "Uganda - Institutional Streng-
thening in the Energy Sector (January 1985)", according to a
timetable acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) UEB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the  Development  Credit Agreement, an    extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
UEB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Electricity Act of 1964 (Cap. 135) of the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UEB to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of UEB or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The ODA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by September 30, 1985, or such later date as the Asso-
ciation may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the ODA Grant or CDC Loan made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project


﻿shall  have  been  suspended, cancelled   or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the ODA Grant Agreement or CDC
Loan Agreement providing therefor, or
(B) the   CDC Loan   shall have become due    and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satis- faction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation,  termination   or   prematuring  is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(g) UEB shall have failed to establish a post of and
appoint a Project Coordinator as provided in Section
3.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement sh&ll occur; and
(c) the any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B)
(subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-8-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and UEB;
(b) the CDC Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
CDC and UEB, and the CDC Guarantee Agreement has been executed on
behalf of CDC and the Borrower, and all conditions precedent for
the first disbursement of the CDC Loan except for the effective
of this Agreement have been fulfiled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by UEB, and is legally binding upon UEB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and UEB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and UEB in accordance with its terms;
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs
(a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINSEC                              61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By               6Ad     \1" '
Regional Vi   Prsident
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- - 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works and          4,600,000          70% of foreign
electrical and                             expenditures
mechancial equip-
ment under Part A
of the Project
(2) Transmission, Dis-      10,900,000          70% of foreign
tribution Works                            expenditures
and Ancilliary
Items under
Part B of the
Project
(3) Uprating and             4,500,000          70% of foreign
strengthening of                           expenditures and
Transmission Lines                         85% of local ex-
under Part B (3)                            penditures
of the Project
(4)  (a) Consultants'        1,800,000          70% of foreign
services under                        expenditures and
Part B.9 and                          85% of local
10 (i), (ii)                          expenditures
and (iii) of
the Project
(b) Techncial           3,500,000           100% of foreign
Assistance to                         expenditures and
MPPT under                             85% of local
Part C of the                         expenditures
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)  Engineering and           700,000          70% of foreign
Design Work for                            expenditures and
the next Hydro-                            85% of local
Power Station                              expenditures
under Part B.10 (iv)
of the Project
(6)  Special Account         2,000,000          Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 3 to
this Agreement
(5) Unallocated              1,500,000
TOTAL             29,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above (i) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (ii) no withdraw-
als shall be made in respect of Category 5 (Engineering and
Design Work) .unless the Borrower fulfills its obligation under
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) upgrade and
rehabilitate existing    electricity generation capacity at the
Owen Falls power station and the capacity of the existing trans-
mission and dIstribution system; (ii) strengthen UEB's opera-
tional capability; and (iii) strengthen the planning capability
of MPPT in the energy sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Owen Falls Power Station
1.   Civil works for structural repairs to the dam and power
house.
2.   Rehabilitation of the ten turbo generator units.
3.   Rehabilitation of electrical and mechanical equipment
such as main cables, switchgear and control equipment,
auxiliaries, intake and draft tube equipment, and
service gates.
4.   Workshop refurbishment and provision     of tools  and
equipment for maintenance.
Part B:   Transmission  and  Distribution  Works and Ancilliary
Items
1.   Substation Equipment - provision of transmission trans-
formers of 132 kV and 33 kV and control and switchgear
equipment.
2.   Transmission and Distribution Lines - supply conduc-
tors, hardware, wood poles, transmission towers, dis-
tribution transformers, underground line material and
consumer connecting material.
3.   (a) Kampala - Owen Falls Line - uprating of the
existing 66 kV transmission line to 132 kV; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) Kampala - Nkenda and Tororo-Lira Lines - streng-
thening of the existing 132 kV transmission lines.
4.   Communication and Control - provision of new Power Line
Carrier SCADA, telephone and radio equipment.
5.   Vehicles and tools - provision of about 30 new vehi-
cles, as well as forklifts, cranes and the supply of
tools and workshop equipment for UEB transmission and
distribution crew members as well as to the existing
electrical, mechanical, communication, metering and
protection workshops in Kampala.
6.   Supply of a computer to UEB.
7.   Reconstruction of the Jinja Training School and provi-
sion of education equipment, as well as the reconstruc-
tion of hostel facilities for students.
8.   Reconstruction  of  district offices at Mbarara and
Masaka, and civil works repair for operational and
residential buildings.
9.   Provision  of   engineering   and  consulting   services
including supervision of construction.
10.   Provision  of  consulting  services for   carrying out
studies of (i) the tariff structure, (ii) training
needs of UEB, (iii) UEB's billing and collection
system, and (iv) engineering and design work for the
next hydro-electric power station.
Part C:   Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Power, Posts
and Telecommunications
1.   Provision of technical assistance for the operation of
the Energy Department.
2.   Provision of technical assistance for carrying out a
forest and plantation inventory in Uganda.


﻿- 15 -
3.   Provision of technical assistance for (i) a national
fuelwood marketing survey as well as (ii) a household
energy survey in the major towns of Uganda.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (5) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
United States dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to
Category (6) which is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 17 -
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (5),
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
SchedulR, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless    otherwise  agreed  by   the  Association,
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (5) for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation and of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) through (5) for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts


﻿- 18 -
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198-5
FOR SECRETARY


