Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4786 
Operation Name 
TN-Integration and Competitiveness DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (30%); Central government 
administration (30%); Banking (20%); Capital markets (20%) 
Project ID 
P095388 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
May 12, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 26, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
March 24, 2009 
1. C
OUNTRY AND 
S
ECTOR 
B
ACKGROUND
 
Tunisia has had to adjust to several headwinds from the global economy since the 
beginning of the new millennium: a severe drought in 2001, the impact of September 11th on the 
tourism sector, the increase in world price of oil, the expiration of the Multi-fibre Agreement in 
2005 and, more recently, the dramatic increase in international oil and cereal prices and the 
global financial crisis. Yet, in the period 2000-2007, the economy adjusted well to these shocks 
and registered a 4.8 percent average growth thanks to steady structural reforms and prudent 
macroeconomic management.   
 
However, due to demographic pressures (rapid increase in the labor supply), the pace of 
GDP growth remains insufficient to reduce unemployment which hovers around 14 percent of the 
labor force. The jump in inflation in 2008 eroded the purchasing power of consumers, threatened 
the competitiveness of firms and made salary negotiations difficult and lengthy. Civil servants 
got a 4.5 percent annual salary increase for the next 3 years in November 2008 and private sector 
salary negotiations are ongoing. As world commodity prices declined however, policy concerns 
shifted dramatically from inflation to the global financial crisis, prompting the Government to 
announce in December 2008 a series of “presidential measures” to reduce the risk to growth of 
recession in Europe. 
 
As Tunisia is a small open economy that is permanently facing challenges from 
developments in the world markets, the proposed Integrated and Competitiveness Program (ICL) 
will help mitigate these challenges. So, the ICL will support the key strategic elements of 
Tunisia’s 11
th
 National Development Plan (2007-11) which seeks to strengthen growth and 
ensure that this growth is translated into employment. It is also a cornerstone of the World 
Bank’s program in Tunisia as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (FY05-08) and the 
Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (2007) that set out an indicative program for FY09-
10. This operation is also expected to be a major component of the new Country Partnership 
Strategy (FY10-13). The main thrust of the program is to continue growth-enhancing reforms 
anchored around a deeper integration of Tunisia to the global economy. More urgently, the ICL 
will assist the Government in responding to the global financial crisis which is beginning to 
Page  2
2
expose Tunisia’s inherent macroeconomic vulnerability to growth in Europe. The immediate 
objective of the Government is therefore to accelerate reforms, send a strong signal to investors 
and mitigate recession contagion risks in the coming years. The global financial crisis and 
economic downturn will no doubt drive policy changes in Tunisia’s main competitors for direct 
foreign investment and trade. Tunisia has decided to respond by accelerating reforms to maintain 
its competitiveness.  
 
2. O
PERATION 
O
BJECTIVES
 
The ICL focuses on a set of mutually reinforcing policies and actions to deepen Tunisia’s 
global economic integration and to promote private sector development. It proposes a selective 
focus on three key policies areas of the Government’s reform agenda where the Bank and the 
other development partners can bring the most value added, specifically: (i) reducing trade 
transaction costs and deepening Tunisia’s global economic integration. This involves both the 
move to a more global (i.e., non-preferential) integration and a deepening of the Association 
Agreement (AA) with the European Union to converge to EU safety and security norms and 
standards; (ii) further improving the business climate to enhance competitiveness of Tunisian 
firms, including services and; (iii) enhancing the development of the financial sector to increase 
its capacity to finance private investment. By supporting reforms in these areas, the program 
would contribute to growth and macroeconomic stability. It would also contribute to the 
Government’s structural reform in response to (i) increased global competition and reduced trade 
protection, and (ii) the transition to an economy based on knowledge, innovation and 
diversification.  
 
3. R
ATIONALE FOR 
B
ANK 
I
NVOLVEMENT
 
The overriding challenge for Tunisia in the years ahead is to reduce youth 
unemployment. Indeed, unemployment is particularly high among individuals between ages 25 
and 29 (20 percent), and individuals below age 25 (30 percent). A recent tracer study showed 
that more than 45 percent of higher education graduates from the 2004 cohort were unemployed 
18 months after receiving their diploma (World Bank 2007).  
In the country’s 11th Development Plan (2007-2011), an annual growth of 6.1 percent is 
deemed necessary to achieve the government’s employment objectives. This would require a 
significant increase in investment and exports, assuming that private consumption will maintain 
its current contribution to real GDP growth (64 percent). Precisely, investment (including FDI) 
would need to increase significantly from 23.6 percent of GDP currently to 25.3 percent by 2011. 
Second, trade needs to play an even greater role than in the past, as real exports and imports 
should increase annually by at least 7 and 6 percent respectively. Clearly, further increasing 
investment, export and productivity growth require continuing reforms in the areas of trade 
integration, investment climate and infrastructure development, financial sector development and 
skills development/adaptation. Given the difficult external environment however, special 
attention will need to be given to preserving macroeconomic stability. 
 
Page  3
3
The last Country Assistance Strategy 2005-2008 for the Republic of Tunisia is in line 
with the Government’s development objectives as outlined in its Development Plan (2007-2011). 
In order to achieve these objectives, the proposed project will support the Government’s efforts 
in several priority areas identified in the CAS, such as:  
·
Strengthen the business environment to support the development of a more competitive, 
internationally integrated private sector and improve competitiveness of the Tunisian 
economy 
·
Enhance skills and employability of graduates and the labor force in order to prepare 
them for a knowledge economy 
·
Improve the quality of social services through enhanced efficiency of public expenditure. 
 
The proposed ICL is designed to be fully complementary with the current lending 
portfolio, particularly in the area of export development through the synergies with the Second 
Export Development Project (which supports export development through trade facilitation and 
promotion). The ICL also creates significant synergies with the Bank’s technical assistance 
activities in the area of trade, transport and logistics. The program also provides a platform for 
cooperation with other donors, as evidenced in the significant parallel technical assistance 
support provided to complement the ICL by the EC (trade logistics). Finally, the Government has 
used the ICL program as a vehicle for its own internal coordination on this agenda.  
 
4. F
INANCING
 
Source: 250$m 
Borrower 
Republic of Tunisia 
Loan amount 
250$m 
Total 250$m 
 
5. I
NSTITUTIONAL AND 
I
MPLEMENTATION 
A
RRANGEMENTS
 
The responsibility for implementing the program in Government rests with the Ministry of 
Development and International Cooperation which will coordinate all relevant activities with 
other Ministries. The Government will take the lead in monitoring progress in implementation, 
both in the context of this operation as well as in the overall context of the NDP implementation.   
Regular supervision will allow the Bank to continue providing policy advice and technical 
assistance to the institutions involved in the implementation of the program of reform.  The Bank 
will continue to maintain continuous dialogue with the relevant Government ministries and will 
conduct regular reviews in close collaboration with other partners. This will take the form of joint 
missions with the EC and the AfDB and shared analytical underpinnings. 
 
6. B
ENEFITS AND 
R
ISKS
 
At this critical juncture, the program faces two main risks. The first risk is related to the 
direct impact of the global financial crisis on Tunisia’s growth and development. Slow growth in 
Page  4
4
Europe is bound to affect Tunisia through various channels, chiefly exports, FDI and remittances.  
Growth in Tunisia may thus slow down temporarily or persistently, depending on the duration of 
the recession in Europe. By accelerating the series reforms through this program, the Government 
expects to mitigate the potential growth risk from EU contagion.  The Government’s strategy is 
to recognize that Tunisia’s economy is small compared to the European market, and that 
enhanced competitiveness in these difficult times may help Tunisia seize opportunities out of the 
global crisis. In addition, Tunisia’s development partners have come together to provide a 
common platform of support to help the country respond to the more difficult external 
environment. 
 
The second risk relates to the expected response of the private sector to the reforms which 
may be slow or muted given the global economic uncertainties.  This would translate into lower 
increases in private investment. To mitigate this risk, the Government expects to step up 
investment climate reforms, support access to finance for enterprises and improve its 
communication strategy in order to enhance private investment. Furthermore, as discussed above, 
Tunisia’s offshore sector has an exceptional “enclave” business environment, and is expected to 
continue to attract FDIs.  
 
Yet, other risks to growth and this program’s objectives cannot be ruled out. These 
include droughts, regional instability and concerns of terrorist attacks in the Maghreb Region.  
Regional insecurity could affect Tunisia in the coming years, with tourism failing to reach the 
expected levels, and Tunisia losing some of its attractiveness for foreign investors. On the other 
hand, drought typically reduces agricultural output significantly and can claim up to 1 percentage 
point of growth. However, as shown in the macroeconomic section of this document, Tunisia has 
been extremely resilient to these types of shocks and the economy has always rapidly rebounded 
thanks to pro-active macroeconomic policies and continuous structural reforms. 
 
7. P
OVERTY AND 
S
OCIAL 
I
MPACTS AND 
E
NVIRONMENT 
A
SPECTS
 
The actions supported by this operation-- enhancing Tunisian firms’ competitiveness 
through reducing trade transaction costs, increasing access to finance and enhancing the business 
climate are expected to support growth and provide employment opportunities for the youth and 
university graduates (one of the key objectives of the Government). In other words, to the extent 
that the reforms succeed in helping Tunisia withstand the consequences of the global financial 
crisis and in increasing growth in the medium term, employment opportunities should increase 
and the poor should benefit. Faster growth would lead to increased job creation, thereby 
supporting household income (7 percent of the population is considered as poor).  
 
More specifically, the program does not support any reforms that are expected to have 
significant negative impact on the poor and a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) was 
considered not to be warranted.  At this stage, there are no specific measures aimed at changing 
subsidies (which are a central element of Tunisia’s public finance program) although this would 
of course present an important need for PSIA if reforms were to be carried out in the future. The 
tariff reform—reduction of tariff bands and of non-preferential tariff rates- will, with a high 
degree of probability, benefit the poor through lower prices of clothing, footwear and other items 
that feature prominently in low income consumption bundles. 
 
Page  5
5
8. C
ONTACT POINT
 
Contact: Ndiame Diop 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 216 -71-103-407 
Fax: 
216 - 71 83 46 86
 
Email: ndiop@worldbank.org 
Location: Tunis, Tunisia (IBRD) 
 
9. F
OR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
