Nigeria: Country Results Profile                                                                         99806




 Nigeria: Building Macroeconomic stability and delivering services for the
 poor


Overview
Nigeria boasts a strong and resilient economy, thanks to rapid growth in both its oil and non-oil
sectors over recent years. Yet poverty remains pervasive and the International Development
Association (IDA) is working with Nigeria to address the fundamental causes of this problem,
and to ensure that all its effort take into account the need to improve governance at all levels.
As a result, IDA projects have seen positive results in education, health, and the delivery of
clean water.

   Full Brief—5 Pages
Nigeria: Macroeconomic Stability and Delivering Services for the Poor—PDF, April 2011


Challenge                                                  MULTIMEDIA
Nigeria’s economic performance in this decade
has been strong. The non-oil economy grewat
about 9 percent a year in 2003-08, in contrast to
3.5 percent per year between 1997 and 2000.
Central to the turnaround in the economy was
success in de-linking the budget from the
fluctuations in oil revenues and strong growth in
agriculture. Growth has been resilient during the
recent global financial crisis with gross domestic
product (GDP) growing by an estimated 6
percent in real terms in 2008 and non-oil growth
remaining buoyant at 9 percent.                            MORE
                                                             Nigeria: Transport
Despite Nigeria’s strong economic track record,
poverty is significant, and reducing it will require        Nigeria: Second National Fadama Project
strong non-oil growth and a focus on human
development. Barriers include the investment
climate, infrastructure, incentives and policies affecting
agricultural productivity, and the quality and relevance of              More Results
tertiary education. In spite of successful initiatives in human
development, Nigeria may not be on track for meeting most


                                                                          25%
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015.
Underpinning these challenges is the core issue of
governance, in particular at the state level. Fiscal
decentralization provides Nigeria’s 36 states and 774 local              literacy rate improved by 25%
governments considerable policy autonomy, control of 50                  through construction and
                                                                         provision of equipment to
percent of government revenues, and responsibility for                   primary and secondary school
delivery of public services. Capacity is weak in most states,            class rooms in over 1,000
                                                                   communities.
and improving governance will be a long term process.

Approach
Starting in fiscal year 2005, IDA identified three broad
challenges: (i) improving service delivery for human
                                                                   89.7%
development; (ii) improving the environment for non-oil            The percentage of households
                                                                   with at least one insecticide
growth; and (iii) enhancing transparency and accountability        treated bed net or long-lasting
for better government. It deployed a combination of lending,       insecticide treated nets - up
                                                                   from 2.4% in 2006
analytical work, technical assistance and multi-donor trust
funds reflecting two key elements. First, it focused on areas
where IDA could have “quick wins” to establish IDA’s role,
after a relatively modest presence in Nigeria between 1999        MORE INFORMATION
and 2003. Second, it directed investments to selected states
                                                                    Country Website
with committed and capable leaders, and which was to serve
as incentives for other states to improve their governance.         Country Brief

                                                                    Country Assistance Strategy
Results                                                             Data and Statistics
Between 2004 and 2009, IDA has utilized a mix of                    Fadama Feature Story
approaches in its support to Nigeria, helping to:
                                                                    Government Fadama Website

      Improve human development indicators through                National Urban Water Sector
                                                                  Reform Project
      CDD projects and a state education sector project. 
      Maternal and child mortality increased on average by
      about 10 percent in 500 communities through
      construction and provision of equipment to primary
      health care centers. Literacy rate improved by 25
      percent through construction and provision of equipment to primary and secondary
      school class rooms in over 1,000 communities. In Kano, Nigeria’s most populous state,
      access to quality education  increased by 25 percent between the period from 2006 to
      2010, and more importantly, over the same period, the ratio of girls to boys increased
      from 75 percent to 90 percent.  In Kaduna, the primary completion rate tripled from 2006
      to 2009.An IDA credit provided grants to schools based on school development plans,
      introduced school-based management committees, provided new text books, improved
      the supply of class rooms and trained the teaching force.

      Deliver water to 2.6 million people in six states through Bank projects between 2004
      and 2009.  The projects supported rehabilitation of water facilities in the six states,
      including construction of 16 water treatment plants, the laying of approximately 1,200 km
      of pipes, development of state water policies and engagement of the private sector to
      manage delivery of water services.  The result is 40,000 new and 121,000 rehabilitated
      household water connections.

      Increase prevention of HIV.  In addition to strengthening the government’s capacity to
      plan and implement HIV/AIDS programs, a Bank project focused on behavior change
      and access to counseling, testing and care services to reduce the transmission of the
      infection and its impact. The project has contributed to the reduction in the national HIV
      prevalence of 5.2 percent in 2003 to 4.6 percent in 2008 and an increase in the
      percentage of women (ages 15-49) reporting the use of condoms the last time they had
      sex with a non-marital, non-cohabiting sexual partner from 6.5 percent in 2002 to 33.4
      percent in 2008.

      Increase access to “malaria plus” packages. The percentage of households with at
      least one insecticide treated bed net or long-lasting insecticide treated nets increased
      from 2.4 percent in 2006 to 89.7 percent in 2010 in the seven project states covered
      under a Bank project. The percentage of children under 5 years with fever treated with
      an effective anti-malarial medicine within 24 hours from onset of systems increased from
      3.7 percent in 2006 to 6.9 percent in 2010 and the percentage of children less than 5
      that slept under an insecticide treated bed nets increased from 3.6 percent in 2006 to
      41.8 percent in 2010. The increase in coverage stemmed from the 12.4 million bed nets
      and 7.5 million doses of malaria medicine procured and distributed through project funds


Partners
This is an emergency or disaster risk reduction type of project. There has not been much donor
interest or capacity to support this project. IDA remains the only donor partner for this project
through its three successive phases.

Toward the Future
The new Country Partnership Strategy for FY09-13 makes governance a core and a cross-
cutting theme, an integral part of virtually every form of support. Governance support will be
addressed in five areas: (i) transparency and accountability; (ii) participation; (iii) sector
governance; (iv) capacity development; and (v) judicial reform and democratic governance. All
partners will engage in strengthening government systems to improve outcomes in human
development and growth, but in the interest of selectivity, only DFID and USAID will focus on
judicial reform and democratic processes. Lending instruments will be tailored to the conditions
of each state. In states with poor human development indicators, for example, but with weak
public sector, the partnership will continue to use project-based lending and grants. In states
that have a relatively good track record on public sector reforms, a reasonably strong fiduciary
system and low debt levels, IDA will consider the use of state level development policy
operations, possibly twinned with Technical Assistance (TA) operations. Maintenance of non-oil
growth involves innovative activities in: (i) infrastructure to support growth clusters and (ii)
technical and vocational education to address the skills gap in employment-intensive value
chains (subsectors). Support for human development will aim to improve access and utilization
of services and focus on health systems development; support for vertical disease programs
will be on a more modest scale than in the previous strategy.
