RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-422a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECUADOR
May 15, 1965
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate (par value)
U.S. $1.00      = Sucres 18.00
S/ 1.00         = U.S. $0. 0555
S/ 1 million    = U.S. $55, 500
Free Market Rate
U.S. $1.00      = S/ 18.60
S/ 1.00         = U.S. $0.054
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



ECUADOR
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUIvARY                                                 i
I.  INTRODUCTION                                             1
II. BACKGROUND INFORMATION                                    3
A. Geographic and Demographic                            3
B. Modes of Transportation                               3
III.  THE HIGHWAY SYSTEK                                       5
A. Condition and General Classification of Roads         5
B. Highway Management and Ministry of Public Works       5
C.  Growth and Characteristics of Vehicle Fleet          6
D.  Performance on the First National Highway Project    6
E.  Second Highway Development Plan      (Loan 176-EC)   9
IV.  THE PROJECT                                             10
A.  General Description                                 10
B.  Completion of First Highway Project                 11
C.  Highway Maintenance Program and Costs               12
D.  Second Project Design, Costs and Execution          12
E.  Engineering Services and Costs                     1)4
F.  Summary of Costs; Project Staging                   14
G.  Financing Plan                                      17
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                  19
A.  General                                             19
B.  The Project Roads                                   21
C. Highway Maintenance                                  23
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                          25
Table 1:  Motor Vehicle Registrations (1951-60) and Projected Growtb
Table 2': Recommended Design Standards
Table 3 : Four-Year Maintenance Program
Table 4 :  NTew Construction Costs
Table 5 :  Engineering Services
Table 6 :  Financing Plan
Map: Ecuador; Main Highways



ECUADOR
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUIlIIA2Y
i.        The Government of Ecuador has requested the Bank and the Association
to assist in financing a highway project comprising:
a) The completion of roads in an earlier Bank-financed
project (Loan 176-EC).
b) The continuation and expansion of the highway main-
tenance program over a five-year period.
c) The completion of construction or improvement of a
further 502 lIm of trunk roads..
d) Engineering services in connection with the project.
ii.       The total cost of the project, including the local currency compo-
nent of maintenance, is Usj,:55.o million equivalent; the foreign component of
cost is USD23.8 million equivalent.
iii.      A Bank loan to Ecuador of US'j?14.5 million in 1957 (Loan 176-EC)
provided for the construction of four trunk highwiays totaling 538 km in length.
The construction of one of the four roads was made contingent on the availabili
of loan funds and satisfactory progress on the rest of the project. The U.S.
'Development Loan Fund also participated with a loan of US§503 million iwhich
has now been fully disbursed. For various reasons, explained in paragraph 25,
the original project cost estimates will be exceeded by about 35`; Bank loan
funds are now fully disbursed, with 3 of the 4 roads from 90 to 96% complete
and open to traffic. The fourth road (financing of which was dependent on
sufficient funds remaining in the loan account) was started in 1961-62 and is
about 60, complete and not yet open to traffic.   USAID recently made an "emer-
gency" loan to the Government of US";2.7 million to help cover the estimated
cost of completing one of the project roads already open to traffic. The
Government has asked the Bank and IDA for further financial assistance for the
completion of these roads. Total coststo complete construction are estimated
at Us,5.8 million equivalent, of which the foreign component is about USV!3.5
million.
iv.       Having completed the bulk of its first Five-Year Highway Development
Program, the Government is now embarking on a second Five-Year Highway Program,
and, in this connection, has reauested financial assistance from the Bank and
IDA to complete the construction or improvement of a further 502 im of trunk
roads. The roads are economically justified from consideration of reduced
vehicle operating costs and increased agricultural production; the period of
construction would be about four years. The total cost to complete the roads
is US,;224.0 million equivalent, of which the foreign component is about US)11.5
million equivalent.



-ii-
V.        The Government has concentrated its existing taxes earmarked for
highway purposes and several high yielding new taxes in a newly established
National Highway Fund.  However, this Fund would not be sufficient to meet all
the local costs of the project, service the highway debt and carry out other
parts of its highway development plan.
vi.       The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) have agreed to participate together with the
Bank and IDA towards the financing of the foreign exchange costs and of about
one third of the local currency costs of the project. The Bank loan and IDA
credit are conditional on the conclusion of the financing Agreements by the
other participating agencies. The financing plan for the project is shown
in Table 6 and is summarized below:
(millions of dollars)
Total
Additional roads        Consortium
Project     related to Project      Project
IBRD                          $9.0                                   9.0
IDA                             8.0            -                     8.0
IADB                            4.0          3 2.0                   6.o
AID                            12.3            3.7                  16.0
Sub-total                    '133.3            5.7
Government                      21.7            1.5                 23.2
Total                         7550           T7.2                  42.2
vii.      The importance attacned by the Bank/IDA to first completing the
earlier project road construction and improving maitenance operations has
led to the recommendation that loan and credit funds be made available in two
consecutive stages; the later stage, directed toward the new construction,
would not become available until the Government had substantially completed
the old project, had made satisfactory improvements in maintenance operations
and had introduced legislation to control vehicle weights and dimensions.
viii.     The economy of Ecuador is basically agricultural; bananas, coffee
and cacao are the principal export commodities. Transportation depends mainly
upon an inadequate highway network and to a much lesser extent on waterways
and a declining rail system. The number of road vehicles registered in the
country has more than doubled over the past ten years.
ix.       Insufficient emphasis has been placed by the Government on highway
maintenance during recent years despite the efforts of the Bank and the con-
sulting engineers.  The neglect of maintenance in the past has resulted in a
substantial accumulation of deferred .-naintenance which now must be made up.
It is essential that the maintenance prograrm initiated under the first loan
be continued and expanded under the proposed project to counter further deter-
ioration and to provide adequate future maintenance for the increasing road
network. An expanded five-year program has been planned for the future costing
a total of US'20.0 million equivalent, of which about US',5.5 million equivalent
will be required in foreign exchange for equipment, machinery, spare parts and
imported materials.



- iii -
x.        One of the factors contributing to the deterioration of roads in
Ecuador is the overweight and oversize trucks and buses using them. The Loan
and Credit Agreements would require the Government to enact and implement
adequate regulatory legislation in this respect.
xi.       New construction work will be contracted on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
xii.      Consulting engineers have been retained by the Government for the
design and supervision of all aspects of the project, and this appraisal report
is based upon their feasibility study and on information obtained by Bank
missions. The total cost of consultants' services for study, design, construc-
tion, supervision, maintenance and general advice, together with a separate
provision for engineering and economic studies of further highways, is estimated
at UsJ5.2 million equivalent with a foreign component of about US$3.3 million
equivalent.
xiii.     The project is technically sound and economically justified.   Subject
to the Government's obtaining the necessary additional external financing for
the project from AID and the Inter-American Bank as contemplated by the Financ-
ing Plan, the project provides a suitable basis for Bank loan of USj9.0 million
and an IDA credit of USM8.o million.
xiv.      It would be appropriate that the term of the Bank loan be 25 years
with a grace period of approximately 5 years, in accordance with the economic
life of the investment. The IDA credit would be made on the usual term; i.e.
50 years with 10 years grace.



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND NTATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Ecuador has requested the Bank and IDA to assist in
financing a second national highway project comprising the completion of roads
financed under a previous loan, a highway maintenance program, the construction
and improvement of new trunk roads, and the consulting engineering services
required in connection therewith. The total cost of the project, including
the local currency requirements for highway maintenance, is estimated at US$55.C
million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component is about US$23.8
million equivalent. The expected duration of the project is about five years.
2.        In 1954 the Bank made a loan of US$8.5 million (Loan 98-EC) to the
Comite de Vialidad, an autonomous provincial agency, for the construction and
improvement of six roads totaling some 500 km in length serving the Guayas
Province. The loan was guaranteed by the Government of Ecuador. Owing to
initial delays in making the loan effective, substantial underestimation by
consultants of the cost of the project, and a seven-year repayment schedule
for the loan, financial difficulties arose in the Comite in 1959 with the
project only about 80% complete. This loan was repaid in full in March 1964.
Some sections of the original project are still not completed, and the proposed
project includes the completion of one such section of road.   The roads con-
structed under this project, however, have made a notable contribution to the
development of the Guayas Province and in particular to the expansion of bananas
Ecuador's principal export crop.
3.        In 1957 the Bank made a loan of US$14.5 million to the Government of
Ecuador (Loan 176-EC) for the foreign exchange cost of the engineering and con-
struction of 538 km of national roads and for the purchase of highway main-
tenance equipment. Loan funds are practically disbursed with three of the
four roads from 90 to 96% complete and open to traffic. The fourth road
(financing of which was dependent on sufficient remaining funds in the loan
account) was started in 1961-62 and is about 60% complete and not yet open to
traffic. The proposed project provides for completion of the road construction
and for an expansion of the maintenance program initiated under the previous
loan. Completed sections of the project are already contributing to the de-
veloptment of the areas traversed.
4.        Two of the new trunk roads included in the proposed project formed
the subject of an application to the Bank/IDA for financial assistance in
July 1961. A separate application at about the same time to USAID for
financing three other trunk roads was subsequently transferred to the Bank/
IDA for consideration. A review of these applications indicated the desirabilit:
of further engineering and economic studies. In April 1962 the Government'
appointed consulting engineers to undertake technical feasibility studies of
the five trunk roads, and to take over from the former consultants in super-
vising completion of the existing project roads, and advising on highwvay
maintenance.



- 2 -
5.        This appraisal is based on the study made by the new consulting en-
gineers and on supplemental data collected by Bank missions. The consultants'
report, dated October 1962, deals writh the completion of the earlier project
roads, a four-year maintenance program, and the construction or improvement of
five new trunk roads. Following a review of this report, the Government agreed
to defer the construction of one of the roads of somewhat lower priority. Even
so, the remaining program was large in relation to the Government's then avail-
able resources. The Bank agreed to undertake the leadership of a consortium
of lending agencies to provide external assistance in financing a satisfactory
highway project, provided the Government would, before undertaking major new
construction, (i) substantially increase and consolidate its revenues to enable
it to carry out the project and the balance of its second five-year highway
program, (ii) give immediate attention to improvement of maintenance operations
and (iii) substantially complete the first Bank-financed project. By June 1963
the Bank and the Association had reached agreement in principle with AID and
the Inter-American Bank on a joint financing plan for the project, and invited
the Government to enter into preliminary negotiations for a loan and credit
under the principal conditions mentioned above. These discussions were inter-
rupted in early July 1963 when a change of Government took place. By late
1963, after it became apparent that a responsible Government was in control,
discussions on the project were resumed. Following satisfactory measures by
the Government in March 1964 to substantially increase and consolidate its
resources for the five-year highway progtam, the Bank and the Association
entered into formal negotiations for the proposed loan and credit.



II. BACKGROUND INFORaATION
A. Geographic and Demographic
6.        Ecuador (see map) lies on the Pacific coast of South America, astride
the Equator. It is bounded on the north and northeast by Colombia and on the
south and southeast by Peru. The area of the country is 270,000 square km
(approximately the same size as the Unitd Kingdom). Its estimated .5 million
population is increasing by more than 3% per year, one of the highest rates in
South America.
7.        Ecuador is divided by the Andes into three distinct regions:  Costa,
Sierra and Oriente. The Costa, or Pacific coastal plain, is mostly flat or
hilly, with a climate ranging from tropical in the north to semi-arid in the
south; it comprises 25% of the area of the country and contains about 40% of
the population. The Sierra, or Andean mountainous region, runs down the center
of the country from north to south, and consists of two roughly parallel moun-
tain ranges enclosing a series of high intermont basins or highland valleys,
with an average altitude between 2,000 to 3,000 meters. The Sierra has an
agreeable temperate climate and is the most densely populated section of the
country, containing about 55p of the total population. East of the Andes and
forming a part of the Amazon Basin, lie the tropical rainforests of the Oriente
withl 501 of Ecuador's area but with only about 25 of the population.  Penetra-
tion roads and tracks from the Sierra are slowly developing the western section
of the Oriente, but for the most part, it remains untouched. The rainy season,
roughly from December to May, makes road construction difficult, particularly
in the Costa.
8.        The economy of the country is basically agricultural, with bananas,
coffee and cacao being the main export commodities. The area of productive
land (cultivated and grazed) is limited to about 20% of the Costa, 25, of the
Sierra, and 1,5 of the Oriente.  About 70,O of the whole area of the country is
jungle or forest, with unexploited timber of some potential economic value.
The system of farming in large haciendas or plantations still predominates in
both Costa and Sierra, with 1% of farms accounting for 25% - 30% of total agri-
cultural land. However, the Government's colonization and agricultural develop-
ment schemes over the nast few years have resulted in increasing numbers of
smaller farms owned by the occupants.
B. Modes of Transportation
9.        The highway system, although still in the relatively early stages of
development, constitutes the principal mode of transportation for freight and
passengers. The length of roads and tracks open to vehicular traffic throughout
the year total about 7,000 to 8,000 km, having roughly doubled over the past
decade.
10.       Railway, inland waterways, coastal shipping and civil aviation are
used to a much lesser extent than higlhways for transportation. The state-owned
railwiay company operates about 1,100 km of narrow gauge single track railway,
the most important line of which connects Quito with Duran, terminating opposite
Guayaquil on the 2-km wide Guayas river. The general condition of track and



- 4 -
rolling stock is poor; freight carried by the railways reached a maximum about
1954 and has been slowly declining since. A number of lines have fallen into
disuse over the past decade.
11.       The larger tributaries of the Amazon river could serve for transporta-
tion if the Oriente region were developed. Four of the principal rivers west
of the Andes are navigable to shallow draft barges and light craft over parts
of their length totaling about 400 to 500 km. In some areas of the Costa,
rivers are the only present means of transportation during the rainy season.
12.       Domestic coastal shipping is active between six or seven ports
distributed along the Pacific coastline.  None of these ports, however, has
berths for the larger ocean-going vessels, and loading and discharging of such
vessels must be done by lighter. The main foreign cargo port is Guayaquil,
where a modern new port facility some 8 km to the southwest of the city was
completed and became operational at the beginning of 1963 with the Bank's
financial assistance. The ports of Puerto Bolivar and Esmeraldas rank next
to Guayaquil in the quantity of bananas exported.
13.       Including dry weather landing strips, there are over forty small air-
ports in Ecuador serving to meet the country's domestic and international re-
quirements. The two principal airports, in Guayaquil and Quito, are adequate
to handle the large, heavy jet aircraft used in international operations. All
commercial airports are owned and operated by the Government,



- 5 -
III. THE HIGHWAY SYSTEM
A. Condition and General Classification of Roads
14.       Of a total of about 15,000 len of non-urban roads and tracks only half
are all-weather and open to traffic throughout the year. The nationalhighway
network consists of about 5,000 Ian of the principal roads partly paved but
mostly with gravel surface; the principal artery is the Pan-American Highway
in the Sierra extending over 1,000 km from the Colombian to the Peruvian border.
For design purposes roads are classified into four main types (similar to those
of Table 2) according to the anticipated daily traffic volumes.
B. Highway Management and Ministry of Public Works
15.       Many different authorities are concerned in varying degrees with
public highways in Ecuador. Principal responsibility for the national network
is vested in the Ministry of Public Works; annual expenditures by the 1linistry
on highways, including expenditures from foreign loans, have averaged US$14
million equivalent over the period 1959-1962.   The second most significant
authority is the Comite de Vialidad, an autonomous agency responsible for the
construction and maintenance of highways, including national highways, in the
Guayas province. Due to shortage of funds, the Comite has spent little on high-
way construction since 1959; before that time, annual highway expenditures
including maintenance were about US$2-3 million equivalent. Other provincial
authorities and national institutes also undertake ninor rural and intra-pro-
vincial road works, but at a much lower level of expenditure.
16.       About 80% of the present national highway network of 5,000 km is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works, and the balance that of the
Comite.  The major activities of the Ministry consist of planning, design,
supervision of construction, and maintenance of roads; other activities concern
public buildings, ports (other than Guayaquil), civil aviation, and telecom-
munications.
17.       The Ministry's present organizational structure   as it relates to
highways is generally satisfactory; improvements are needed, however, in the
maintenance sector. Operational efficiency has recently improved, and the
Ministry's consulting eneineers rill be reviewing and making recommendations
on highway management and maintenance as part of their advisory assistance.
18.       Hig'hway works in Ecuador, other than maintenance, are normally under-
taken by contract. Major contracts are awarded by international competitive
bidding writh contract documentation and procedures conforming to Bank require-
ments. Design ancl supervision of the construction of major road works is nor-
mally carried out with the assistance of independent consulting engineers.
Maintenance of highways is undertaken by provincial directorates of the Ministry.
Present standards of maintenance are low and must be improved if a serious
deterioration of the road network is to be avoided. Past deficiencies in the
maintenance organization are enlarged upon in paragraph 30.



- 6 -
C. Growth and Characteristics of the Vehicle Fleet
19.       The total number of' motor vehicles registered in Ecuador has more
than doubled during the past ten years (see Table 1) and is now around 34,000,
with a current growth rate of about 6% per annum. The composition of the
present vehicle fleet is about one-third cars and jeeps, slightly more than
one-third light trucks, and slightly less than one-third buses and heavy trucks.
Over the Past ten years the proportion of cars and jeeps within the total
vehicle fleet has remained practically constant, while light trucks have
increased and buses and heavy trucks have decreased proportionately.
20.       The consultants have estimated that the total vehicle fleet will
grow at a diminishing annual rate, falling from 6% now to about 4% in 15
years' time, which would result in a doubling of the total fleet over that
period. These estimates are considered to be conservative.
21.       Bus and truck bodies of excessive width (up to and sometimes ex-
ceeding 3.50 m) are fabricated locally and built on to imported chassis.
Overloading, overwidth, and excessive speeds of motor vehicles are major
factors contributing to rapid pavement deterioration and high accident rates
in Ecuador. Appropriate regulation is essential in the type and operation of
heavy motor vehicles if appropriate benefits are to be derived from an improved
road network.
22.       Existing legislation relating to road vehicle weights and dimensions
is inadequate and unsuited to satisfactory enforcement. Revised legislation
similar to the latest recommendations of the Pan-American Highway Congress
should be drafted and introduced forthwith, allowing a reasonable period for
continued but gradually limited use by defaulting vehicles; a phasing out
period of four to five years is suggested. The Bank and IDA has requested
the enactment and implementation of satisfactory measures in this respect
in connection with their proposed financing.
D. Performnance on the First National Highway Project (Loan 176-EC)
23.       In September 1957 the Bank made a loan of US$14.5 million to the Gov-
ernment of Ecuador for a highway project (Loan 176-EC, see map) described
in Report No. TO-146B, dated September 10, 1957. The loan included an amount
of US$10.3 million to cover the foreign exchange requirements of constructing
or improving an initial length of 524 km of roads (later increased to 538 km)
at a total cost then estimated at US$23 million equivalent. The U.S. Develop-
ment Loan Fund (DLF) subsequently made a loan of US$5.3 million equivalent to
assist in financing the local currency costs of part of the program. The
project formed part of a five-year highway development program, initiated by
the Government of Ecuador in 1957, comprising the construction and improvement
of about 700 km of main roads.
24.       Although scheduled for completion in 1962, only three of the four
projects were nearly complete by the end of 1963. The status of completion
as of December 31, 1963, was as follows:



- 7 -
Percent                Status
Ref.          Road                 Completion         Work to be done
1.   Quito-Santo Domingo -            94              Open to traffic;
nuevedo (234 km)                               60 Ion to pave
2.   Duran-Cochancay (92 km)          96              Open to traffic;
(including Niilagro branch)                    minor works
3.   Chone-Bahia (h8 Iam)             90              Open to traffic;
minor works
4.   Santo Domingo-Chone              61              Not open to traffic;
(164 km)                                       part earthmoving and
major part paving
25.       The delay in completion is mainly due to the following reasons:
a) Total construction costs have increased by about 35% to around
US>31 million due to underestimation of the quantities of con-
struction work, particularly of earthwork quantities.
b)  A 20% devaluation of the sucre in mid-1961 with a consequent
increase in local cost.
c) A premature start of the Government of work on the Santo
Domingo_Chone project road, which according to the Loan
Agreement was to be held in abeyance until substantial
progress would have been made on other higher priority
project roads. On the basis of project cost estimates
presented at that time, the Banlk finally agreed to par-
ticipate in financing the new work with a lower percentage
contribution (30%) than the estimated foreign component
(45h). The cost estimates have since proved unrealistically
low, however.
26.       The present Bank loan and the DLF loan have been dran down, and
notwithstanding a recent USAID "emergency" loan of US$'2.7 million equivalent
for the completion of the Quito-Quevedo road (reference 1 in paragraph 24
above), the Government is not in a position to complete the roads and continue
with its highway development program at the same time.
27.       Notwithstanding the substantial increase in capital cost of con-
struction, the project road works are still adequately justified on tne same
general grounds as presented in the original appraisal, namely, from a con-
sideration of reduced vehicle operating costs and increased agricultural pro-
duction and other economic benefits.
28.       Benefits to the economy are already accruing from completed road
sections where travel time and transportation costs are reduced considerably.
The completed section Santo Domingo-4uevedo where only a trail existed, now
serves Ecuador's main banana growing area. Traffic on the road exceeds 500
vehicles per day and freight carried surpasses 1,000 tons per day. Also, the
road Duran-Cochancay is in full use. about 500 vehicles travel the road daily
and freight transported exceeds 500 tons.   Finally, the Quito-Santo Domingo
section, although partially not yet paved in sectors where slopes have not yet
been stabilized, is open for traffic and providing a new and more rapid means
of communication with the Costa.



- 8 -
29.       Now that adequate sources of financing are forthcoming, completion
of the project works is expected to proceed smoothly now that major obstacles
have been overcome. All works are now under contract and well advanced, thus
reducing considerably the elements of uncertainty. New consulting engineers,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been appointed to supervise the remaining works
and have prepared realistic quantity and cost estimates. Domestic contractors
engaged in construction have gained considerable experience over the past four
years and are now better equipped in all respects to execute highway works.
30.       Loan 176-EC included an amount of US$2.9 million equivalent for invest-
ment in highway maintenance equipment and materials over the four-year period.
The expected benefits from this investment have not been fully realized for the
following principal reasons:
a) The Government allocated insufficient local currency funds
annually for highway maintenance purposes.
b) The limited funds allocated by the Government for maintenance
were occasionally diverted for other purposes.
c) The occasional rental by the Ministry of essential highway
maintenance equipment (including equipment financed out of the
loan) to contractors for construction works outside the project
or the assigning of maintenance personnel temporarily to other
works.
d) An agreed maintenance reorganization plan,with adequate shop and
warehouse facilities, was not fully implemented.
e) The services rendered by the previous consulting engineers were
regarded as unsatisfactory by the Government, resulting in the
termination of the consultants' contract in 1962.
f) The lack of an adequate training program for maintenance engineers,
foremen, drivers, operators, mechanics, and other personnel.
31.       Although the over-all highway maintenance effort has been inadequate,
some important benefits have nevertheless resulted from the Bank investment -
mainly in the construction and equioping of the central maintenance depot and
some of the district shops and warehouses. It is imperative that the mainte-
nance program be continued and expanded in order to build up an efficient or-
ganizaticn, capable not only of maintaining the present highway network but
also of maintaining those trunk roads in the first project which are now
nearing completion and the new trunk roads forming the present project.
32.       The maintenance effort of the Ministry is expected to improve with
the recent appointment of new consultants experienced in this type of work on
other Bank-financed projects. Moreover, present Ministry officials in Ecuador
are fully aware of the importance of adequate highway maintenance, and prospects
are conse3quently more favorable than before for the successful implementation
of a maintenance program.



- 9 -
33.       Before starting any major new highway construction, the Government
should concentrate its technical and financial resources on completing the
current Bank-financed project works and improving its highway maintenance
organization. For that reason, participation by the Bank or the Association
in the financing of new construction wiI1 be conditional upon the Government's
having first made satisfactory progress towards completing the current project
works and improving maintenance.
E. Second Highway Developriient Plan
34.       The new Government of Ecuador which took office July 11, 1963, has
prepared a second highway development program, comprising the construction of
650 km and the improvement of 1,000 km roads over a five-year period at a total
estimated cost of around US$70 million. The project roads comprise the highest
priority portion of this program.
35.       The National Board of Planning and Economic Coordination is respon-
sible for the programing and coordination of public works investments. To
assist the Planning Board in programing future investments in the transportation
sectors including highways, the Bank made a grant of $3h0,000 in late 1962
towards the cost of a general transportation study to determine the country's
ten-year requirements. Partly because of initial difficulties in securing a
suitable team, the study was delayed in starting and the final report on this
study will not be available before the summer of 1964.  The draft report of
the general transportation consultants confirms, however, that the project
roads are of the first priority. This justifies proceeding now with considera-
tion of the Government's application for financial assistance without awaiting
the final report of the transportation study.
36.       The Government has agreed to establish a Transportation Coordinating
Committee, consisting of representatives of the Government, the Bank/IDA and
other lending agencies to exchange views with regard to the carrying out of the
transportation investment plan and to general matters relating to the national
highway system, the financing and carrying out of the highway development pro-
gram and to administrative matters relating to the carrying out of the project.



_ 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
37.       The components of the second national highway project are:
Stage I
A. Completion of highways partly financed under Bank Loan 176-EC
Completion of construction of the following paved all-weather
highways:
i) From Duran to Cochancay, together with the branch from this
road to Milagro (approximately 92 km).
ii) From Chone, via San Antonio, to Bahia de Caraquez (approximately
48 kim).
iii) From Chone to Santo Domingo (approximately 164 km).
B. Highway Maintenance Program
The execution of a five-year program for the maintenance of the
highways of the Borrower which will be carried out by the Ministry of Public
Works along the lines recommended by the consulting engineers. The program
includes (i) the strengthening of the national road maintenance organization,
(ii) the completion of work shops, warehouses and other facilities in all main-
tenance districts for the repair and maintenance of road maintenance equipment,
(iii) the acquisition, reconditioning, operation and maintenance of road main-
tenance equipment, (iv) the institution and operation of a comprehensive train-
ing Program for maintenance personnel and (v) the provision of all labor,
materials and supervision necessary for the execution of the program.
C. Engineering Services
Consulting engineering services in connection with (i) Parts A and
B above and the construction, reconstruction or improvement of the highways
mentioned in paragraph 39, and (ii) studies, designs and documentation
concerning the highways included in Part D below.
Stage II
D. New Highway Construction
Completion of construction, reconstruction or improvement of the fol-
lowing paved all-weather highways:
i) From Santo Domingo to Quininde (approximately d3 km).
ii) From Quevedo to Babahoyo (approximately 139 km).
iii) From Cajabamba via Bucay to Chilcales (approximately 149 km).



- 11 -
iv) From Manuel J. Calle to Machala (approximately 131 km).
E. Engineering Services
Consulting engineering services in connection with the supervision
of the construction of the highways included in Part D above.
F. Studies of Other Highways
Feasibility studies and final engineering of further highways to be
selected by the Borrower in agreement with the Bank.
38.       The project is expected to be financed jointly by the Bank, IDA, USAID,
IDB and the Ecuadorian Government. The Bank loan and the IDA credit will be
dependent upon the Government's obtaining firm financing commitments from the
other participating agencies. The loan and credit agreements will provide for
the release of funds for the project in two stages as indioated in paragraph
37 above.
39.       As indicated in paragraph 26, USAID already made a loan of US$2.7
million equivalent for the completion of the Aloag-Santo Domingo section of
the Quito-Quevedo road. Moreover, USAID and IDB are expected to help finance
the completion of the sections Babahoyo-Duran and Esmeraldas-Quininde. The
three sections mentioned above are not part of the project appraised in the re-
port, but are considered contributiors of the USAID, IDB and the Government
towards financing the consortium program shown in Table 6.
B. Completion of the First Highway Project
40.       The foreign exchange cost to meet the completion of the project roads
Duran-Cochancay, Chone-Bania and Santo Domingo-Chone is estimated, including
contingencies, at US$3.5 million, of which US$3.2 million for the Santo Domingo-
Chone road. In this amount is included about US$1 million for reimbursement
of the foreign exchange component of work executed after September 30, 1962,
the date by which Bank loan funds for construction were exhausted. Local
currency requirements as of December 31, 1963, to complete the above mentioned
roads are estimated at S/42 million (US$2.3 million).
41.       Provided the proposed loan is made available shortly after the con-
struction season begins in May/June 1964, the first project road construction
could be completed by the end of 1964 with the exception of a 50-km section
of base and paving on the Santo Domingo-Chone road, and a 30-km section of
base and paving on the Quito-Quevedo road being completed by USAID and the
Government.



_ 12 -
C. Highway Maintenance Program and Costs
42.       The consultants have drawn up a five-year program for developing the
highway maintenance organization, having as its goal an output sufficient to
adequately maintain the equivalent of about 5,000 km of surfaced trunk highway
by 1968. The annual requirements of foreign and local currency for the program
are indicated in Table 3.
43.       External financing amounting to 1JS3,5.5 million equivalent will be
required to assist in purchasing equipment, spare parts, etc., mainly in the
early part of the program. Government contributions will cover local costs
and include a depreciation fund to replace old equipment.
D. Second Project Design, Costs and Execution
44.       The liinistry of Public Works prepared the designs for the roads
included in the new project. Consulting engineers were retained to review the
1iinistryts designs and prepare an engineering and economic report in support of
the Government's application to the Bank for a loan. The consultantst findings
and recommendations, together with the findings of Bank field missions, have
been taken into consideration.
45.       Three out of the four project roads have been partially constructed
and a limited amount of work is currently in progress under four contracts.
The Quevedo - Babahoyo road is about 15% - 20% complete; construction of earth-
works and bridges is proceeding under a contract awarded in 1953 and revised
in 1958. Two contractors have been working since 1955 on the mountainous
section of the Cajabamba - Bucay - Chilcales road; their rate of working on
this road has been tailored to the limited amount of funds specially earmarked
annually.  Construction is now about 35% - 40, complete, but the road is not
yet open to through traffic. The Mi.J. Calle - Nlachala road is about 25" completc
90 km is substantially completed to subbase level; 24 bridges are not yet built.
h6.       A section of one of the proposed project roads from Bucay to Chilcales.
was included in a previous highway project forming the subject of a loan (Loan
94-C) to the Comite de Vialidad (see Report. No. TO-4la dated January 15,
1953), The section is only partially completed. Since the section constitutes
an essential part of the national trunk netiwork, the Government has proposed
that it be included in the project. The estimated total cost to complete the
section is albout US51 million equivalent. The current legal relationship
between the Government and the Comite and the apportioning of responsibility
in regard to the construction of the road section and its future maintenance
oave been satisfactorily clarified during loan negotiations.
47.       The consul-tants recommend adoption of highway design standards
basically the same as those now in use by the Ministry but with somewhat
greater structure and road shoulder widths (see Table 2). On some sections
of the highways included in the project, however, earthworks have already
been constructed to the Hinistry's existing standards with the narrower
shoulder widths. The consultants do not consider it necessary nor economical
to widen all existing earthworks to the new standards. Provision has been
made in the quantity estimates for widening earthworks where practicable and
for completing the construction to higher standards where essential from con-
siderations of traffic volumes and design speeds.



- 13 -
48.       Project costs estimates have been based upon construction of the fol-
lowing road types to carry the traffic volumes indicated; design standards have
been confirmed during loan and credit negotiations.
Daily        Road           lwidths (m)
Traffic Forecast   Type                  Each
Ref.         Road              1968      197d  (Table 2)  Pavement  Shoulder
1.  Sto. Domingo-Quininde      390       590   C(initial)   6.51/     2.0
2.  Quevedo-Babahoyo           230       410       D        6.5       1.5
3.  Cajabamba-Chilcales        250       380       D        6.5    1.0(0.75) 2/
4.  i.J. Calle-ilachala        210       310       D        6.5       1.5
1/ double-surface treatment.
Y/ for cuts in mountainous terrain.
49.       The construction cost estimates were prepared originally by the IPiin-
istry and recently checked by the consultants. Quantity estimates are based
upon field inspections; unit prices are the averages of recent highway con-
tracts. The cost estimates indicated in Table 4, which are considered re-
alistic, include a 15% allowance for construction contingencies, and an addi-
tional escalation allowance of 8?8 for possible increases in costs over the
4-k year period until their completion.
50.       Upon completion, the total construction costs of the project roads
will average around 660,000 per km in the Costa and ,,l20,000 per km in the
Sierra; these costs are considered reasonable.
51.       The estimated foreign comronent of highway construction costs used in
this report is based upon studies by the consultants and the Bank of recent and
current work by domestic and foreign contractors in Ecuador. On the assumption
that about two-tliirds of the new work will be executed by domestic contractors
with an average foreign currency requirement of about 45d, and the balance by
foreign contractors with a requirement of about 60%, the equivalent foreign
component of the total construction cost is about 50/J
52.       Final designs and bidding documents for completing the project roads
will be prepared by consultants with the assistance of the Ilinistry. Bidding
procedures and documentation will remain basically the same as those on the
current Bank-financed project, wJith the introduction of a few refinements sug-
gested by the consultants. Before cbhstruction contracts can be awarded on the
basis of international ccmpetitive bidding, the Ministry must terminate
first the existing contracts on three of the roads. Construction contracts wili
provide for Dayments in local currency,, but contractors will be able to convert
equitable amounts into foreign exchange. Irovisions will be made in such con-
tracts to protect contractors against a change in the rate of exchange of the
sucre and some protection will be given against increases of local prices.   All
project construction workl will he supervised in the field by the consultants.



- 14 -
53.       It is believed that the project construction can be satisfactorily
executed with available domestic and potential foreign contracting forces.
The capacity of domestic contractors has increased with the execution of the
first five-year develoument program, and the larger highway construction firms
in Ecuador now total eight. Five domestic and two foreign firms produced an
annual average amount of work valued at almost US26 million equivalent over
a four-year period on the first Bank-financed highway project. The size of
a sufficient number of project road sections for future bidding should be
sufficiently large to attract more foreign firms; for this purpose the total
cost of such sections will normally be not less that US1,2 million equivalent.
E. Engineering Services and Costs
54.       A consulting engineeriig firm experienced in highways and satisfactory
to the Bank has already been engaged by the Government to provide engineering
services in connection with the project. Their current terms of reference
cover completion of the first project roads, general advisory services to the
i'inistry of Public IJorks with emohasis on improvements to the highway main-
tenance organization, and the design and supervision of new road construction.
55.       A provision of U3;500,OCO has been made in the proposed loan for studb
by consulting engineers of a further 500 - 600 km of roads as may be agreed by
the Bank on the basis of the General Transportation Survey (reference para. 35).
A small part of this amount would be directed towards the preparation of feasibi
lity studies on specific roads to be decided later, the balance being used for
final engineering and bidding documentation for selected roads.
56.       Engineering costs for the five-year period (see Table 5) are supported
by detailed estimates prepared by the consultants on a man-month basis for the
principal phases of the project. The total foreign component amounts to US 3.3
million, and includes the salaries of foreign personnel, the overhead charges ay
fee of the consulting firm, overseas transportation, the cost of the feasibilit:
report for the proposed project, additional road studies and other foreign costF
The local component amounts to S/ 34 million (US.$1.9 million) and includes sala-
ries of local personnel, living allowances, local office expenses, field camps,
and other local costs. The engineering costs are reasonable and comparable to
those on other similar projects.
F. Summary of Costs; Project Staging
57.       The importance of substantially completing road construction under
the old project (Loan 176-EC) and of improving the highway maintenance organi-
zation before embarking upon any major new construction leads to the recommen-
dation that the loan and credit amounts be made available for the project in
two stages, with the new construction being deferred to thc later stage.
58.       The project elements and costs, including an appropriate contingency
allowance within each item, arc summarized below:



- 15 -
Foreign      Local      Total
Component   Component     Cost
(in millions US:~)
Stage I
1. Shortfall on existing highway
project (Loan 176-EC)                    3.5          2.3        5.8 1/
2.  Five-year highway maintenance program      5.5        14.5        20.0
3.  Engineering services 2/                    1.9          0.8        2.7
Sub-total Stage I                       10.9         17,6       28.5
Stage II
4. New Highway Construction
New construction after international
competitive bidding                     11.5        12.5        24.0
5. Engineering Services
(Supervision of roads under
item 4 and additional road
studies)                                1.4         1.1        2.5
Sub-total Stage II                      12.9        13.6        26.5
Total Stages I and II                   23,8        31,2        55.0
1/ Excluding US?"2.7 million of recent      2/  Including design, documentation
USAID loan for completion of the            and supervision of roads outside
Quito-Quevedo road.                          the project but included in the
consortium program. (see para. 39
59.       The following first stage of the project would qualify for Bank
participation when the loan and credit agreements become effective:
1) completion of Loan 176-EC roads,
2) the five-year maintenance program,
3) engineering services (Item 3 of Stage I above)



- 16 -
60.       The second stage of the project would be the execution of new con-
struction after international competitive bidding, the related engineering
services in supervising the construction thereof, and the studies of additional
roads. The second stage could possibly commence mid-1965, provided the Govern-
ment had by then complied with conditions prescribed in the first stage, in
particular, the substantial completion of the old project and the improvement of
maintenance operations. The conditions pertaining to the two stages of release
of loan and credit funds are set forth in detail in paragraphs 107 and 108.
61.       In order to provide a more definite guide for the release of loan and
credit funds for the second stage of the project, an amplification of "sub-
stantial completion" of Loan 176-EC roads has been agreed upon during loan
negotiations. rA' al ;c-ptable status of the roads, equivalent to about 95% of
total completion, ii-,li be:
) she Duran-Cochancay and the Chone-Bahia roads open to traffic
arid completed.
ii) The Santo Domingo-Chone road to be open to traffic and completed
with the exception of about 50 kam of the base course and surfacing
(double-surface treatment).
iii) The Quito-Aloag-Quevedo road to be open to traffic and completed
with the exception of 30 km of base course and surfacing (double-
surface treatment).
62.       The nine to twelve month period expected before reaching the stage
of completion indicated in paragraph 61 above will enable the Bank/IDA to
observe the Government's initial progress in improving highway maintenance
operations. Before release of funds for the second stage of operations,
measures satisfactory to the Bank/IDA should have been taken to implement an
adequate maintenance program. The measures to be taken to that effect should
include:
i) Implementation and adequate staffing of a satisfactory organi-
zational scheme for maintenance.
ii) That adequate shoos and warehouse facilities shall be in operation.
iii) That a comprehensive training program for maintenance engineers
and other maintenance personnel shall be in operation.
iv) Carrying out of a complete inventory of the maintenance equip-
ment in the country and formulating a program for its reha-
bilitation.
v) That the major portion of the mechanical equipment, specified
by the consulting engineers to be required as a minimum for
satisfactory maintenance operations, shall be in effective
working condition and engaged in maintenance operations.



- 17 -
63.       Only small amounts of work have been carried out recently under cur-
rent contracts on the four new roads. The object of the Government will be to
terminate bhe works under these contracts by the end of 1964, and to procure
the balance of the works by international competitive bidding around mid-1965,
when the Government should have met the conditions for releasing funds for
the second stage. It is estimated that the four new roads in the project
may be completed by the end of 1968.
G. Financing Plan
64.       The Government has taken the necessary fiscal measures to enable it
to carry out its highway development plan on a sound basis. The Government
has also established a National Highway Fund which will receive the revenues
of several existirg taxes on gasoline and soft drinks (about US$30 million
in the period 1964-1968).  Moreover, the revenues of a new automobile importa-
tion tax and of road tolls will be added to the Fund (about US$10 million in
the period 1964-1968). Finally, 31% of the receipts of a unified banana ex-
port tax will flow to t'ae Fund (estimated at about Us$25 million in the same
period). Together with another US$10 million from different sources, the
National Highway Fund would have about US$75 million available for the execu-
tion of the highway development plan in the 5-year period 1964-1968.
65.       Debt service on internal and external highway debts is estimated at
about US$20 million over the period, whereas Government contributions to
provincial roads and roads tothe Oriente will amount to about US$10 million.
Consequently, an amount of US$45 million would remain for Government con-
tributions to the project and for other priority roads in the highway develop-
ment program. The Government will contribute US$21.7 or 40% of the cost of
the project and would spend its remaining funds (about US$23 million) for
other high priority roads. The Government's contribution to new construction
in the project is 21%. However, including debt service, the Government would
contribute 66% to the execution of its highway development plan; excluding
highway maintenance and debt service, this percentage would be 60. In these
circumstances, the Government's contribution to the project is considered
reasonable.
66.       The Bank, IDA, AID, IDB and the Government have reached agreement on
the portions of the US$55 million project which will be financed by each (see
Table 6).
67.       The foreign exchange cost of completion of the remaining roads of
Loan 176-EC inuld be financed by the Bank (US$3.5 million) and the local cost
by the Government (US$2.3 million).
68.       Imported equipment (US$5.5 million) would be procured after interna-
tional competitive bidding. USAID will finance up to US$3.3 million of this
equipment, provided it is obtained from U.S. sources, the remainder to be
financed by the Bank. In case insufficient imports from the U.S. would be
available, USAID would finance part of the foreign exchange cost of the
engineering services. Local cost for the maintenance program would be fi-
nanced by USAID (US$2 million) and the Government (US$12.5 million).



- 18 -
69.       Engineering services would be financed by the Bank (US$3.3 million)
and the Government (US$1.9 million).
70.       The foreign component of new construction would be financed by IDA
(US$8 million) and IDB (US$4.0 million). The local component by USAID
(US,t7.0 million) and the Government (US$5,0 million).
71.      Mloreover, USAID and IDB will help the Government finance the comple-
tion of the road sections Aloag-Santo Domingo, Esmeraldas-Quininde and Baba-
hoyo-Duran, which are part of the consortium program shown in Table 6. USAID
would contribute US$3.8 million, IDB US$1.9 million and the Government US$1.5
million for these works.
72.       For the financing of new road construction, agreement has been reached
with USAID and IDB that all project works to be jointly financed would be pro-
cured by international competitive bidding in accordance with normal Bank/IDA
procedures. Furthermore, as mentioned in paragraphs 59 and 60, the Bank loan
and IDA credit funds would be made available in two stages, and for that reason
the approach of USAID and IDB to the project financing will be the same.
73.       The Government has agreed to establish a Project Revolving Fund, out
of which payments to contractors and suppliers will be made, and into which
reimbursements will be made by participating agencies. To this end, the Govern-
ment will transfer from the National Highiiay Fund or otherwise to the Project
Revolving Fund all necessary amounts. Moreover, the Government agreed to start
the Fund after the loan has becomne effective with S/ 20 million and will
transfer to it thereafter monthly S/ 10 million unless otherwise agreed. The
PRF will also receive approximately US$1 million (S/ 18 million) reimbursement
of past expenditures on the first Bank project (see paragraph 40).
74.       The Government will give highest priority to the project.   In order
to assure that sufficient funds will remain available in the National High-
way Fund for transfer to the Project Revolving Fund and for debt service of
the highway debt, the Government has agreed not to make changes in the leg-
islation which would limit thle revenues of the National Highway Fund or to
carry out major road works (including bridges) outside the project, if such
changes in legislation or execution of major works would adversely affect
the carrying out of the project.



- 19 -
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
75.       Over the past ten years Ecuador's Gross National Product has increased
at an average rate of 5% per annum in real terms. There was a slackening off
in recent years to a rate of about 3% per annum, but this trend appears to have
been reversed. A somewhat higher rate of growth therefore appears in prospect
with increasing exports and rising investment under the Ten-Year Development
Plan.
76.       Roads and road transport in Ecuador are the main means of communica-
tion. Investment in the road network is thus of peculiar importance in supply-
ing a basic need which must be met in order to support the productive sectors
of the economy. The relationship between transport investment and growth in
national incoTe can be seen in the increase of the production and exports of
bananas that has occurred in recent years, made possible by road construction
financed by past Bank loans in the coastal area, where up to 1954 hardly any
all-weather roads were in existence.
77.       There is evidence to indicate that the bulk of the transport
expansion has been borne by road transoort.  For exampLe, there has been
no net increase in the tonnages carried by the railway during a period when
the tonnages exported from Ecuador increased at an average rate of 10% per
annum. By contrast, between 1951-1962 the number of commercial road vehi-
cles increased from 8,000 to 20,400, while gasoline consumption rose from
24.2 to 65.0 million gallons and diesel oil consumption, part of which was
for road use, rose from 9.1 to 29.0 million gallons. Transportation on the
rivers and inland waterways by small craft and rafts is believed to have in-
creased also, but to a lesser extent.
78.       The increase in road and waterway transport, which has partly
been at the expense of the railroad, is primarily a reflection of increased
production of bananas and cacao in the coastal areas located away from the
railroad's splhere of influence. These twio crops now account for about three
quarters of the country's income from exports. The increasing prosperity of
the areas in which these crops are produced has meant more spending on im-
ports and internal products and on passenger transport by road. Nevertheless,
farmers' incomes generally remain relatively low partly because of low output
and inefficient farming techniques, and partly because of their inability to
market surplus produce economically in potential markets at home and abroad
as a consequence of either high transport costs or the lack of communications.
79.       Aside from Guayaquil, the urban areas are also generally charac-
terized by low incomes. Although urbanization is increasing and local manu-
facturing is growing, there is no large industrial population demanding large
volumes of foodstuffs and raw materials from the rural areas. As a result of
these and other features, the demand for transport is mainly for small amounts
which can be met best by road vehicles such as trucks, buses, and "mixtos"
(part bus, part truck), particularly in areas inaccessible to water transport.



- 20 -
80.       Ecuador is the major supplier of bananas to the world markets.
Its other export products exert little influence on world supplies, but
both they and bananas are in direct competition Taith produce from other
more favorably situated countries and face a constant threat of substitu-
tion from alternative sources. Faced with actual and potential competition
from countries with low world prices for primary produce, it is vital,
therefore, that export costs be kept as low as possible. One means of
achieving this is by extending and improving the existing inadequate high-
way network.
81.       The roads to be constructed or improved under this project, in
addition to their beneficial effects on export prices, will also contribute
to the Government's wider objectives of economic and administrative inte-
gration of the country; of generally increasing and improving output, quality
and productivity in agriculture and industry; of opening up new areas for
population settlement; of employing surplus construction labor; of reducing
transport costs to motor vehicle operators and so economizing in scarce
foreign exchange; of reducing transport charges and travel times for road
users thus inducing economies in the use of capital tied up in inventories
by a quicker turnover of goods, etc. and of generally widening the economic
and social horizons of the population.
82.       General qualitative impressions on the justification for the pro-
ject works have been confirmed by making an economic analysis for each road,
the basis of which is a comparison of the present values of those benefits
most easily quantifiable over some future period with the total capital
investment by way of construction costs, engineering, interest charges, and
other associated public investments. The two principal economic benefits
which have been considered in the present evaluation are the savings in
transportation costs and the net value to the producers of increased agri-
cultural production resulting from the construction or improvement of the
roads.
83.       Savings in transportation costs play a major role in the quantifiable
benefits of these project roads. Estimated savings in operating costs to the
road users range from about 20% to about 35% upon completion of the project
works. Conservative estimates of traffic growth lead to benefits from savings
in transportation costs alone which provide satisfactory returns ranging from
6 to 20% on the capital investment in the project roads over their assumed
useful economic lives.
84.       Savings in transportation costs are considered to be only secondary
to the potential increase in the national income which may be expected to result
from additional agricultural production, particularly for export. Extra pro-
duction may be expected to be generated in case an existing road is improved
since produce can be marketed with less damage at lower cost throughout the
whole year. Extra produce may certainly be expected to develop in those fertile
regions where so far roads are lacking and the small quantities produced pres-
ently are transported via tracks and by waterways. In that case, a strip of
land along the new road may be expected to develop as soon as transportation
is made possible.



- 21 -
85.       It is difficult to quantify with accuracy the yield to be expected
from the net increase in agricultural output. On conservative assumptions,
however, and taking into account Ecuadorian conditions, it appears that
benefits to be expected on this account will be the more important in the
longer run. The development of the regions around roads financed by the
Bank in Ecuador in the past demonstrates this clearly.
B. The Project Roads
86.       The Santo Domingo-Quininde-Esmeraldas highway (including the
section from Quininde to Esmeraldas in the consortium program) passes through
one of the rapidly developing and potentially richest agricultural areas of
the country. It links S2nbo Domingo, the center of a prosperous farming dis-
trict in which colonization schemes and feeder roads are being developed,
with Esmeraldas, the country's third largest banana shipment port.
87.      Banana plantations of varying sizes dominate the commercial agri-
culture of the area. Sic"if-ficant amounts of rice, yucca, pineapples, sugar,
cacao and some cattle, are aiso raised and marketed. Stands of unexploited
timber of potential economic value still rerimain.
88.       Fxisting daily traffic along the road averages about 200-250
vehicles, 80p of which are trucks engaged in the carriage of goods for foreign
and local trade. Banana exports from Esmeraldas, which increased from 1.9
million stems in 1950 to 4.0 million stems in 1963, are carried partly by
river but mainly by road. Present rejections at the port vary from about
20% to 40% of the voluwe of bananas transported by truck, a part of which is
attributable to damage en route. This represents an annual gross value re-
jected of about US? 1/4-1/2 million equivalent, although some of these bananas
are recovered for local human and animal consumption. The quantity of bananas
exported through Esmeraldas has fallen since 1960. The poor condition of the
road has been a contributing factor as it is known that some bananas from this
area have to be evacuated through Guayaquil, at much higher cost.
89.       The upgrading of this road to a paved all-weatlier highway should
reduce the losses of produce through bruising and through rotting when trans-
port is interrupted or delayed by bad weather. It is also estimated that,
at present, perhaps one-quarter of the potential harvest of bananas is left
unpicked on the trees because of the lack of reliable transportation.   The
assurance of regular produce evacuation and lower transportation costs
offered by the project road, may induce farmers to offer for sale some of
the produce which is now wasted.  Reliable communications between the port
and the plantations will make the scheduling of cutting, transport and ship
loading operations more efficient and thus economize the use of capital in
local storage facilities. The better quality of banana, cheaper production
cost, and lower transportation cost will assist Ecuador in maintaining its
position in the competitive world market.
90.       The Government of Ecuador forecasts that banana exports through
Esmeraldas will not increase substantially until after the project road im-
provement is completed in 1967, and may then rise to about 6.0 million stems



- 22 -
by 1971. The consultants also forecast modest increases in traffic volumes
after the opening of the road, starting at about 5% per annum and falling
to about 4% per annum after ten years, when the traffic volume would be
about 600 vehicles per day.
91.       The savings in vehicle operating costs for this growing traffic
are alone sufficient to provide a return of about 11% - 12% on the total
investment in the road over its assumed useful economic life. Agricultural
benefits from the immediate zone of influence contribute further to the
economic justification.
92.       The Quevedo-Babahoyo highway, constituting part of the future
trunk network, alo passes through good farm land at present served by
trails and partly by waterway. Products of the region include rice, bananas,
cacao, coffee, sugar, fruits, cotton and timber from plantations. Grazing
predominates in the western portion of the region. Small, but potentially
important, sugar and rice processing plants have been established.
93.       This highway will provide considerably improved facilities for
the internal distribution of the products of the area and stimulate new
developments in agriculture for both local and export markets. The Govern-
ment's consultants expect that as a direct result of the construction of the
road, the net output of agriculture will increase from an area extending an
average Qf 2 kcn on each side. Their estimates have been checked and appear
reasonable on the basis of recent similar experiences in Ecuador.
94.       At the opening of the through road in 1967, traffic is forecast
to be about 250 vehicles per day. liodest increases will result in daily
traffic volumes in 1977 of about 410 vehicles. Benefits expected to be
derived from lower transportation costs are estimated to provide a return
of about 8% - 10% on the total investment over its assumed useful economic
life.  Considerable additional benefits will accrue from the net value to
producers of increased agricultural production in this potentially rich
agricultural area.
95.       The paving of the section Babahoyo-Duran to be carried out in 1964
forms part of the construction program and will be financed by AID, IDB and
the Government.  Traffic is forecast to rise from about 400 vehicles at the
opening of the through road to Quevedo to about 670 vehicles per day in 1978.
Benefits to be derived from lower vehicle operating costs are estimated to
provide a return of 18% - 20% over the assumed economic life of the investment.
96.       The Cajabamba-Bucay-Chilcales highway will form the most important
southern connection betwieen the coastal highway system and the Pan-American
Highway in the Sierra. Existing routes are substandard and difficult to
improve, often closed to traffic by bad weather and landslides. When com-
pleted, the project road will facilitate the movement of upland agricultural
products (barley, potatoes, wheat, cattle and dairy products) from the rich
mountain plateau around Riobamba to the rapidly growing consumer's market
around Guayaquil, and conversely, the flow of lowland agricultural produce
(bananas, citrus fruit, sugar cane and caceo), local manufactured goods and
imported goods to the more densely populated highland areas of the interior.



- 23 -
97.       Traffic is expected to be about 250 vehicles per d&y on completion
of the road, a large Part of this traffic being through traffic between the
Sierra and Costa for wrhich the travel distance will be reduced by 100 km.
The consultants estimate that traffic wrill grow to around 400 vehicles per
day by 1978, ten years after completion of the road, which is modest and
reasonable.  The benefits expected from lower motor vehicle operating costs
over the shorter travel distances will alone provide a return of about 11%
on the total investment in the road during its assumed useful economic life;
additional benefits will accrue from increased agricultural production.
98.       The M.J. Calle-Machala highway forms part of the coastal trunlc
highway connecting the provinces of Guayas and El Oro. It will open up a
potentially rich agricultural region. Cultivated areas are only found
along the coast due to limited transportation possibilities. The present
agricultural output is moved by small barges along rivers and the coast to
the ports of Guayaquil and Puerto Bolivar. The rivers are only navigable
part of the year, and as a result, losses from produce that cannot be marketed
are likely to be considerable.
99.       In 1962, 25% of the country's exported bananas passed through Puerto
Bolivar. Other produce from this region are cacao, coffee, rice and corn.
Timber is available for marketing and cultivation of cotton and cattle raising
have good potential.
100.      The proposed highwzay will connect the region with other parts of
the country. It will improve the distribution of foodstuffs in the country
and decrease the need for imports of food. On the other hand, the region
will enlarge the laarket for the products of the domestic manufacturing
industry.
101.      According to the experience in other regions where new highways
replace waterways, it is assumed that part of the existing agricultural out-
put will be diverted to the new road. Traffic is expected to be about 210
vehicles per day in 1968. The consultants estimnate that daily traffic will
groui to some 310 vehicles by 1978, wThich seems rather conservative. Benefits
from improved transportation are expected to result in a rate of return on
investment of 6% over the useful economic life. Considerable additional
benefits uill accrue from increased agricultural production from this poten-
tially rich agricultural area.
C.  Highway Maintenance
102.      The five-year maintenance program, costing a total of US2P20.0
million in local and foreign currency to implement, is directed at providing
adequate maintenance for about 5,000 km of surfaced highway by 1968. Part
of the total cost consists of capital investment in buildings and shop equip-
ment while part, particularly in the last two years, is an operational or
recurrent expenditure.  The planned expenditure ls high, equivalent to about
US"l,000 per km of road annually in tne later years of the program, but it
includes correcting the deterioration which has resulted from past mainte-
nance deficiencies. Thereafter, the annual expenditure might be reduced to



- 24 -
an average of about US-3700 -$800 per km to cover normal routine, periodic,
emergency, and equipment maintenance requirements.
103.      On the basis of a desirable recurrent annual expenditure of about
USS750 equivalent per km of road maintained for materials, labor, equipment
depreciation, spare parts, servicing, fuel, etc., the annual maintenance
costs in 1968 would be USjP3.8 million equivalent approximately. These annual
costs are equivalent to and would be recovered by a consequent saving in ve-
hicle operating cost rnodestly assumed at only 5%, and applied to half the
estimated 1967 vehicle fleet traveling an average annual distance of 20,000
km per vehicle. Any additional operating benefits derived from the remainder
of thie vehicle fleet wiould be a direct gain to the national econory after
amortizing the relatively small capital investment in the five-year mainte-
nance program.
104.      The future success of the maintenance program is dependent upon
the proper implementation of new legislation limiting vehicle weights and
dimensions as mentioned in paragraphs 21 and 22.



VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
105.      The importance attached by the Bank/IDA to completing the current
highway project (Loan 176-EC) and to improving maintenance operations has
led to the recommendation that the release of a substantial part of loan and
credit funds for new construction be dependent upon the Government's having
first complied with certain prescribed conditions, including substantial com-
pletion of the previous project and marked improvements in maintenance.
106.      The project will be jointly financed by the Bank, IDA, USAID, IDB,
and the Government. A condition for loan and credit signing will be the
securing of firm financing commitments by the Government from the other parti-
cipating agencies (see paragraphs 66-71).
107.      During loan and credit negotiations with the Government, the Bank/
IDA have reached agreement in connection with the following points:
a) The Government shall give highest priority, within its highway
development program, to the Bank/IDA project in the application
of available technical and financial resources (see paragraph 74).
b) Upon completion of the transportation survey, the Government and the
Bank shall consult on the recommendations of the study; thereafter,
the Government and the Bank during the construction period of the
project shall exchange views at least once a year with regard to the
carrying out of the Transportation Investment Plan and to general
matters relating to the National Highway System (see paragraph 36).
c) The Government has established and shall maintain a National Highway
Fund which will receive the revenues of existing taxes earmarked
in the past for highway purposes as well as the revenues of a new
tax on importation of automobiles, a participation of the unified
banana export tax and receipts of tolls on highways    (see paragraphs
64 and 65).
d) The Government will establish a Project Revolving Fund out of which
payments to contractors and suppliers of the project will be made and
into which reimbursements will be made by participating agencies.
To this end, the Government will transfer to the Project Revolving
Fund all necessary amounts to carry out the project    (see paragraph
73).
e) In order to assure that sufficient funds will remain available in
the National Highway Fund for transfer to the Project Revolving Fund
and for debt service on the national highway debt the Government will
not make any change in the legislation which would limit the revenues
nor would it carry out any major works, including bridges, outside
the project, if such changes in legislation or execution of major
works would adversedly effect the carrying out of the project
(see paragraph 74).



- 26 -
f)  The Government will first complete the roads under project 176-EC
and reorganize the Highway Maintenance Department and improve its
operations (see paragraphs 61 and 62).
g) The Government shall execute construction works to design standard.
and under contracts satisfactory to the Bank, and shall procure
all goods to be financed by the Bank/IDA on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (see paragraphs 52 and 53).
h) The Government shall undertake to enact as expeditiously as pos-
sible adequate legislation concerning the limitation of vehicle
weights and dimensions (see paragraphs 21 and 22)..
i) The Government shall undertake to continue employing consulting
engineers on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for
the duration of the project.
108.      Funds will not be made available from the loan and credit accounts
for the second stage of the project until the Government has complied with the
following conditions:
a) The construction of roads under project 176-EC shall have been
substantially completed (see paragraph 61).
b) The Government shall have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank/
IDA to implement an adequate maintenance program (see paragraph 62
c) The Government shall have taken all necessary action to enact and
implement newi ligislation concerning vehicle weights and dimen-
sions (see sub-paragraph 107 (h) above).
109.      The Bank/IDA has reached an understanding with USAID and IDB on the
following points (see inter-alia, paragraphs 66-70):
a) That their approach to the project financing would be on
a twro stage basis under terms and conditions similar to
those in the Bank/IDA contractual agreements.
b) That the goods listed in the Bank/IDA agreements to be jointly
financed under the same contract urith participating agencies would
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
c) On the methods to be adopted for joint administration and
financing of the project, with :articular reference to the
system of approval of contracts, disbursement and end-use
inslDection and the creation of a project revolving fund for
project financing.



- 27 -
110.      The project is technically sound and economically justified.   Subject
to the Government's obtaining the necessary additional financing for the project
from USAID and the Inter-American Bank as contemplated by the Financing Plan,
the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$9.0 million and an
IDA credit df US$8.o million.   It would be appropriate that the term of the
Bank loan be 25 years with a grace period of approximately five years, in
accordance with the assumed economic life of the investment. The IDA credit
would be made on the usual terms.
May 15, 1964.



Table 1
ECUADOR
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(i) Motor Vehicles Registrations ( 1951 - 1960 ) and Projected Growth
Year              Cars         Light          Mixtos*:          Total
and         Trucks        Buses and         Vehicles
Jeeps                       Trucks
1951              4,000       3,300           4,800              12,100
1952              4,900       4,500           5,900              15,300
1953              4,700       5,400           6,200              16,300
1954              5,300       6,400           7,200              18,900
1955              5,700       7,400           7,800              20,900
1956              6,300       8,400           7,700              22,400
1957              6,400       8,200           7,100              21,700
1958              7,300       9,000           7,500              23,800
1959              8,500      10,000           7,900              26,400
1960              9,300      10,400           8,600              28,300
1961             10,200      11,000           8,700              29,900
1962             11,100      11,500           8,900              31,500
(ii) Percentages of vehicles in different categories
1951               33          27               40                 100
1954                28         34               38                 100
1958               31          38               31                 100
1960               33          37               30                 100
1962               35          37               28                 100
(iii) Projected Growth in Vehicles
1962                                                             31,500
1967                                                             41,000
1972                                                             52,000
1977                                                             63,000
1982                                                             74,000
1987                                                             85.000
Source: National Planning Board and Consultants
(*) part bus, part truck



T2b1C 2
SECOND NATIONTAL "ICTvTAY ?ROJ.SCT
RECOMMENDED DESIGN STA'NDARDS
c              I
CLASS                    IN ITIAL     FUTURE             D                 E                  F
Avg. Daily Traffic (ADT)           Over 450      Over 450         90 to 450         25 to 90        Less than 25
Design Hour Volune (DHV)           Over  50      Over  50         10 to  50         3 to 10         Less than 3
Minimum Right-of-way Width            60            60               60                30                30
6.5           7.3              6.5              3.5                35 
Pavemont Width                            Two lanes              Two lanes          One lano          One lane
Bituainous    Bitumrrous         Doubl,)          Cr4r. ,u
Pavement 12.000 lb.                Concrete      Concrete        Bitumirous            a F.           Granular
Single Wheel Load                   or            or            Surface           Surface         Base Course
Alternative   Alternative       Treatment        Trea: e b
2.0 in cu:    2.0 in cut       2.0 in cut        1.0 in cut        1.0 in cut
2.0 on fill   2.0 on fill      2.0 on fill       1.5 on fill       1.5 cn f:;1
Minimum Recommended               2.5 on fill   2.5 on fill      2.5 on fill       2.0 on fill       2.0 Os. fill
Shoulder Widths                 with guide     with guide      with guide        with guide        with guide
posts         posts            posts             posts            pO5St
Structure 5idths (curb to curb)
Bridges H20-516-44
15 Meters or Less                          9.8 (32 ft.)                             6.5 (21.3    .)
Over 15 leters                              8.5 (28 ft.)                             6.5 (21.3 ft.)
Culvert Lengths                              11.3 (37 ft.)                             6.5 (21.3 ft.)
Type of Tcrrain-                  F      e       M          P     R    u      F    R     n     p    R     g
Design Speed (Km Hr)             115     80      55        100    70   45     go   60    40    80   50    35
minirum Radius                   450    210     100        290   190   70    245   125   70   lS0    70   40
Y laximum Grade (%): Tangent         5      6       8          6    7     8      6    7     8     6    8     9
Grados. 0-1000 Meters above
.    Sea Level                     (Maximum grade to be reduced 0.5% for each additional 1000 . elevation)
Critical Length of Upgrade
(Max. Length of Grade over
u    3% without Climbing Lanes)     250    200     150        250   200  150    200  170   150   200  150   120
0
Non-passing Sight Distance       145     85      60         145   85   60   Special Design    special Design
Passing Sight Distance           610    400     240        610   400  240   S;ecial Design    Special Design
Minimum Grade (S)                                   0.35 to 0.50 In flat to mountainous terrain
Maximum Superelevation                              0.10 to 0.12 in flat to mountainous terrain
* For design year (10-15 years- F.m Flat                    B - folling              M a Mountalaeu
hence)
AN0E: All dimensions in "teers unless otherwise shown.
Sources Consulting Engineers



ECUADOR
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
4-YEAR MAINTENANICE PROGRAM
l.Estimated Foreign Currency Requirement(US$million)1264 1965 1966 1967 1968 Total
a. New equipment and spare parts for
new equipment                                   1.0 2.0   1.0  0.3   -    4.3
b. Rehabilitation old equipment and
spare parts                                    0.2  0.2  0.1    -    -    0.5
c. Maintenance-shop requirements                   0.3  0.1   0.1   -    -    0.5
d. Operators and mechanics training
program, radio communication setup              0.1   -   0.1   -    -    0.2
Maintenance Program, Foreign Requirements:       1.6  2.3  1.3  0.3   -    5.5
2.Estimated Local Currency Requirement(S/million)   1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 Total
a. Imported materials                               3     5   3     3    3   15
b. Local materials(including some imported
materials in 1967, and all thereafter)           5    8    4    4    4   25
c. Fuel, lubricants, etc.                           6   10   12    12   12   52
d. Personnel (operators, mechanics, etc.)           10   15   21   23   25   92
e. Spare parts for equipment                        6    6     5    5    5   31
f. Depreciation Fund for replacing old
equipment                                       3    6    8    11   11  39
g. Maintenance shop requirements (buildings)        3     2    1    -    -    6
Maintenance Program, Local Requirement:         36    52   54   58   60  260
($14.5 mill.)



ECUADOR
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHW,AY PROJECT
NEW CONSTRUCTION COSTS g/
(S/ + $ million)
Total Cost to      Local        Foreign
Length      Complete        Component    Component /
(km) (Sucres) (US$ a 18.00) (Sucres) (Sucres) (US$)
l.Santo Domingo-Quininde.        83     61        3.4         31        30     1.7
2.Quevedo-Babahoyo              139     65        3.6         33        32     1.8
3.Cajabamba-Chilcales           149    152        8.4         76        76     4.2
4.M.J.Calle-Machala             131     72        4°          36        36     2.0
Sub-total                     502    350       19.4        176       174     9.7
Escalation 8% average
on total cost                         28        1.6         22         6     0.3
Construction contingencies,
15% of sub-total                      54        3.0         27        27     1.5
TOTAL COST: New Construction         432       24.0        225       207    11.5
(100%)                       (48%)
J Estimated at 50% of total cost, on the basis of two-thirds
of the work executed by domestic contractors with an average
of about 45% foreign component, and 1/3 by foreign contractors
with about 60% foreign component.
?/ Cost estimates as of December 31, 1963.



Table 5
ECUADOR
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ENGINEERING SERVICES
Local     Foreign
Component Component
Total Cost    Sucres       US$
Stage I
a) Completion Bank Loan 176-EC
including road sections
Bobahoyo-Duran and Esmeraldas-Quininde       1.1          9          o.6
(design and supervision)
b) General Advisory Services
including rmaintenance program              0.5           -          0.5
c) New Con..truction
studies, design and documentation           1.1          5           O,8
Sub-total Stage I          2.7         14          1.9
Stage II
d) New Construction
supervision                                 1.8         17           0.9
e) Additional Studies
including final design and docu-
mentation for part                           0.7          3          0.5
Total Engineering Costs               5.2          34          3.3



E C U A D O R
SECOND NATrONAt HI,HWAY CONSOIRTIUM PROJC?                            Table 6
F?TANCINC PLAN
(Expressed in millions of US$ Equivalent)
PROJECT  COST  ESTIMATES              F I N A N C I N G     P L A N
Foreign   Local
Category    Descrintion                  Com-      Com-     Total
ponent    nonent    Cost       IBRD      IDA     IADB     AID     GOVERNM6NT
STAGE I
A. Shortfall 176-RC
Completion of the highways Duran-
Cochancey, incl. Milagro branch;
Chone-Bahia; and Santo Domingo-
Chone                                  3.5       2.3      5.8       3.5       _        _       _          2.3
B.  Five-Year Highway Maintenance Program
1.  Foreign currency requirements         5.5 -       -       5.5       2.2       -        -      3.3          -
2.  Local currency requirements            -        1.5    1.5         _   -             -      2.0        12.5
C. Engineering Services
All, except supervision roads
described in category D and
studies for future highways           1.9       0.8      2.7        1.9       -        -       -          0.8
Sub-total Stage I          10.9      17.6      28.5       7.6       -        -      5.3        15.6
STAGE II
D.  New Highway Construction
Arter international competitive
bidding: Santo Domingo-Quininde;
Quevedo-Babahoyo; Cajabamba-                                                              2/
Chilcales & M.J.Calle-Machala        11.5       12.5     2h.0        -       8.0      Ij.0    7.0         5.0
E.  EngineerinR Services
Supervision roads category D          0.9       0.9       1.8       0.9       -        -       -          0.9
F.  Studies of Other Hiphways
Studies of future highways            0.5       0.2      0.7        0.5       -        -       -          0.2
Sub-total Stagc IT         12.9      13.6     26.5        1.A      8.0      l:.o    7.0         6.1
TOTAL - PROJXCCT           23.8      31.2      55.0       9.0      8.0      4.o    12.3        21.7
OTHER CONSORTIUM PROJECTS 2
1. Competion of Quito-Quevedo
road section                          1.5        1.7      3.2        -        -        -      2.7         0.5
2. Completion Babahoyo-Duran and                                                              2/
Eameraldas-Ouininde road sections     1.9        2.1      h.0        -        -       2.0 -   1.0         1.0
-TOTAL - CONSORTIUM PROJECT           27.2      35.0     62.2       9.0       8.0      6.0   16.0         23.2
1/  After normal international competitive bidding, AID will finance goods procured in the U.S. un to $3.3 million.
If amount of U.S. procurement is less than $3.3 million, AID would finance maintenance equipment and dollar costs
of engineering up to $3.3 million; IBRD would increase its financing of maintenance equipment and reduce its
financing of dollar costs of engineering accordingly.
2/  Including $0.6 million for local currency financing.
3/ Already under contracts or awarded for construction in 196La (in Stage I).



-  Lorenz   .
ESMERALAS                     . 
'   8ac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UC
Qu,
fou4ro, ~ ~ ~  ~     ~   ~    -                           u~6 
ECUADOR                          -                      4
R d ii ncd by liURi LOw                 7        \    g 
G4-EC to Co.ottR Vi,t,dSdt                    \ Dom,
--ffi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~oExst            inicerns  UA   AN
c>t.a  1000 meter CoOtotor   < j   .tF)] 
CROP USE AREAS JX 
ECUADOR MO3COS cLA
*.* .. .. ttetr - p-I ..d
BeR-dne. Ceo-o ond   I/i
,-  .  Cotton. cortn rnd bysos  '  \|-.                           1 2   0 6   t  0  t
APRIL  94  fR                                                            1 -43 to
APRIL 1964                                                              IBRD- 1343~~~~~~~~~~~~uq.



