0
LOAN NUMBER 379 EC
Loan Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 26, 1964


﻿LOAN NUMBER 379 EC
Loan Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 26, 1964


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1964, between REPUBLIC
OF ECUADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATioNAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) Prior to the date of this Agreement, the
Borrower has obtained from the Bank and other lenders
financial assistance for highw_xay construction, betterment
and maintenance as follows:
(i) By Agreement dated Nov7ember 6, 1959 (hereinafter
called the DLF Loan Agreement), the Development Loan
Fund (hereinafter called the DLF), an agency of the
United States of America, has agreed to make a loan
(hereinafter called the DLF Loan) to the Borrower in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to $5,300,000, on
the terms and conditions set forth in such DLF Loan
Agreement;
(ii) By Agreement dated September 20, 1957 (herein-
after called the First Bank Loan Agreement), the Bank
has agreed to make a loan (hereinafter called the First
Bank Loan) to the Borrower in an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to $14,500,000, on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such First Bank Loan Agreement; and
(iii) By Agreement dated September 1, 1963 (herein-
after ca 3d the First AID Loan Agreement), the Agency
for International Development (hereinafter called the
AID), an agency of the United States of America, has
agreed to make a loan (hereinafter called the First AID
Loan) to the Borrower in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $2,700,000, on the terms and conditions set
forth in such First AID Loan Agreement;


﻿4
WHEREAS (B) The Borrower is engaged in the carrying
out of a five-year highway development program (herein-
after called the Highway Development Program) for the
construction, reconstruction, betterment and maintenance
of various highways of the national highway system of the
Borrower, such Highway Development Program forming
part of a ten-year transportation investment program
(hereinafter called the Transportation Investment Pro-
gram) within the Plan General de Desarrollo Econodmico
y Social of the Borrower for the development of the general
transportation sector in the territories of the Borrower;
WHEREAS (C) The Borrower has taken measures intended
to increase substantially the resources to be made available
for the carrying out of the Highway Development Program
and has requested the Bank and certain lenders in addition
to the Bank to assist in the financing of the Highway Devel-
opment Program as follows:
(i) By Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Second AID Loan Agreement), the AID has
agreed to make a loan (hereinafter called the Second AID
Loan) to the Borrower in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $13,300,000 on the terms and conditions set
forth in such Second AID Loan Agreement;
(ii) By Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the IADB Loan Agreement), the Inter-American
Development Bank (hereinafter called the IADB) has
agreed to make a loan (hereinafter called the IADB Loan)
to the Borrower in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to $6,000,000 on the terms and conditions set forth in
such IADB Loan Agreement; and
(iii) By Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Credit Agreement), the International Develop-
ment Association (hereinafter called the Association) has
agreed to make a credit (hereinafter called the Association
Credit) to the Borrower in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $8,000,000 on the terms and conditions set
forth in such Credit Agreement;


﻿5
WHEREAS (D) The Bank has agreed to make a loan to
the Borrower in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) on the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth, but only on condition that the
Banco Central del Ecuador accept its obligations under
Section 5.04 of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS (E) The Banco Central del Ecuador, in con-
sideration of the Bank's entering into this Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to accept such obligations of
Banco Central del Ecuador and to evidence its acceptance
thereof by causing this Agreement to be signed by its duly
authorized representative;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Loan Regulations; Special Definitions
SEOTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement accept
all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 3 of the Bank
dated February 15, 1961, subject, however, to the modifi-
cations thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(said Loan Regulations No. 3 as so modified being herein-
after called the Loan Regulations), with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Except where the context otherwise re-
quires, the following terms shall have the following mean-
ings wherever used in this Agreement:
(a) The term "Fondo Nacional de Carreteras" shall
mean the fund created by Decree No. 530 of the Borrower
published in the Registro Oficial No. 208 of March 18, 1964;
(b) The term "highway debt of the Borrower" shall
mean collectively (i) the debts incurred or to be incurred
by the Borrower under this Agreement, the First Bank
Loan Agreement, the DLF Loan Agreement, the First AID


﻿S
6
Loan Agreement, the Second AID Loan Agreement, the
IADB Loan Agreement and the Credit Agreement, and
(ii) all other debts incurred by the Borrower and specified
in Article 5 of the Decree No. 530 of the Borrower published
in the Registro Oficial No. 208 of March 18, 1964;
(c) The term '- sucres" shall mean the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Bank shall open a Loan Account on
its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Account the amount of the Loan. The amount of the
Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account as pro-
vided in this Loan Agreement, and subject to such other
conditions as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank; provided, however, that, except as shall be
otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
(a) no withdrawals shall be made on account of expendi-
tures prior to such date or dates as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank, and
(b) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expendi-
tures relating to Part E and F of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement until the conditions set forth
in paragraph (b) of Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement
shall have been fulfilled.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, payments by the Bank of amounts which
the Borrower is entitled to withdraw from the Loan
Account shall be made for the account of the Borrower to


﻿7
Banco Central del Ecuador for crediting the equivalent in
sucres of such amounts to the Project Revolving Fund
described in Section 5.12 of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time from the Loan
Account.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of five and one-half per cent (51%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan so withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the charge payable for special com-
mitments entered into by the Bank at the request of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Loan Regulations
shall be at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 17)
per annum on the principal amount of any such special
commitments outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTIOLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Loan to be applied exclusively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out Parts A, B, C, E and F of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The


﻿8
specific goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the methods and procedures for procurement of such
goods shall be determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, subject to modification by further
agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. The Borrower shall cause all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used in the
territories of the Borrower exclusively in the carrying out
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall execute and deliver
Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan as
provided in the Loan Regulations.
SECTION 4.02. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower
and such person or persons as he shall appoint in writing
are designated as authorized representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 6.12 of the Loan
Regulations.
ARTICL2 V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering and financial practices.
To that end, the Borrower shall employ engineering con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including terms and conditions
under which the execution of the Project shall be under the
supervision of such consultants.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all high-
ways included in Parts A and D of the Project the construc-
tion or reconstruction of which shall be financed in whole


﻿9
or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be con-
structed or reconstructed by contractors satisfactory to the
Bank employed under contracts satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The general design standards and the types of pave-
ment to be used for the highways included in Parts A and
D of the Project shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the detailed pro-
gram for Part B of the Project and the work program,
plans and specifications for Parts A and D of the Project,
and any material modifications subsequently made therein,
in such detail as the Bank shall from time to time request.
(e) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof in
the Project, and to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the financial condition and operations of the agency or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the execution or
operation of the Project or any part thereof; shall enable
the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
and any relevant records and documents; and shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, and the goods, and the financial
condition and operations of the agency or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for the execution or operation of the
Project or any part thereof.
(f) Without limitation or restriction upon the foregoing
provisions of this Section, the Borrower covenants that all
designs, specifications and contract documents to be used
in connection with carrying out the Project shall either be
prepared by the engineering consultants referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section or be satisfactory to them.


﻿10
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Loan.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic con-
ditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part
of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related
to the Loan.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the carrying out of the Transportation Investment
Program, to general matters relating to the national high-
way system of the Borrower, to the financing and carrying
out of the Highway Development Program and to admin-
istrative matters relating to the carrying out of the Project.
To that end, the Borrower shall appoint representatives
of the Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones, of
the Ministerio de Finanzas, of the Junta Nacional de Plani-
ficacion and of Banco Central del Ecuador to serve on a
Committee (hereinafter called the Transportation Coordi-
nating Committee) to be chaired by the Ministro de Obras
Publicas y Comanicaciones or his representative, and on
which the Bank, the Association, the AID and the IADB
shall also be represented. Until the Project shall have been


﻿11
carried out, such Transportation Coordinating Committee
shall meet as reasonably required by any one of its members
but not less than once a year.
SECTION 5.04. It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lion hereafter created on govern-
mental assets (including any priority in the allocation or
realization of foreign exchange). To that end, the Borrower
and Baico Central del Ecuador undertake that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower or of the Banco Central del
Ecuador or any other institution acting as the Central Bank
of the Borrower, as security for any external debt, such
lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. Within
the limits of its constitutional powers, the Borrower will
make the foregoing undertaking effective with respect to
liens on assets of any of the Borrower's agencies including
agencies granted autonomy by the Constitution of Ecuador
(other than Banco Central del Ecuador), any other insti-
tution acting as the 'Oentral Bank of the Borrower, or any
of the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency
of any such political subdivisions, and to the extent that
the Borrower is unable within the limits of its constitutional
powers to make such undertaking effective, the Borrower
will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank. The foregoing provisions of this Section shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien on com-
mercial goods to secure a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred
and to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial
goods; (iii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions to secure a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;


﻿12
or (iv) any lien solely upon revenues or receipts in currency
of the Borrower which is given by a political subdivision
(consejo provincial or municipalidad) or by an agency of
a political subdivision of the Borrower under arrangements
containing no provisions which would result in priority in
the allocation or realization of foreign exchange.
SECTION 5.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a
holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident
of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.06. The Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
thereof and the Borrower shall pay all such taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in
whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are payable or laws
in effect in the territories of such country or countries.
SECTION 5.07. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free from
all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 5.08. The Borrower shall satisfy the Bank that
adequate arrangements have been made to insure the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against risks
incident to their purchase and importation into the terri-
tories of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause all highways
in its national highway system to be adequately maintained


﻿13
and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all
in accordance with sound engineering practices;
(b) The Borrower shall cause all its highway construc-
tion and maintenance machinery and equipment to be
adequately maintained and repaired, and shall cause suit-
able workshops to be maintained in suitable places for
that purpose;
(c) The Borrower shall take all such action, satisfactory
to the Bank, as shall be necessary to assure that the
dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national
highway system shall be kept within limits substantially in
accordance with standards mutually satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 5.10. The Borrower shall maintain the Fondo
Nacional de Carreteras for the purpose of assisting in the
financing of projects (including the Project) for the con-
struction, reconstruction, betterment or maintenance of
highways in the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.11. The Borrower shall transfer or cause to be
transferred to the Fondo Nacional de Carreteras the pro-
ceeds of such taxes and other revenues which shall be
available to such Fondo Nacional de Carreteras and any
other sum as shall be necessary to enable such Fondo
Nacional de Carreteras (i) to make the transfers specified
in Section 5.13 of this Agreement, and (ii) to provide such
amounts in the currency of the Borrower, as shall be neces-
sary to enable the Borrower promptly to make payments on
account of the principal of, interest and other charges on,
the highway debt of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.12. The Borrower shall create a Fund (here-
inafter called the Project Revolving Fund) to be used
exclusively to make payments (i) for the cost of goods
required to carry out the Project and (ii) for the cost of
goods required to carry out the construction, reconstruction
or betterment of the highways described in Section 5.16 of


﻿14
this Agreement. The Borrower shall maintain such Project
Revolving Fund un+il all such payments shall have been
made.
SECTION 5.13. (a) The Borrower shall transfer or cause
to be transferred from the Fondo Nacional de Carreteras
to the Project Revolving Fund all amounts in the currency
of the Borrower as shall be from time to time required to
permit all payments specified in Section 5.12 of this Agree-
ment to be made promptly out of the Project Revolving
Fund;
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph, the Borrower shall transfer
or cause to be transferred from the Fondo Nacional de
Carreteras or otherwise to the Project Revolving Fund:
(i) on a date not later than the first day of the calendar
month immediately following the Effective Date the amount
of 20 million sucres; and (ii) on the first day of each
calendar month thereafter the amount of 10 million sucres
or such other amount as shall be from time to time agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 5.14. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
any other provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
make such arrangements with the Banco Central del
Ecuador as shall be necessary to (i) determine the con-
ditions under which foreign currency or currencies can be
purchased by the Borrower to enable it to make the pay-
ments required to be made by the Borrower in such foreign
currency or currencies, and (ii) otherwise effectuate the
provisions of Sections 5.11, 5.12 and 5.13 of this Agreement.
(b) Such arrangements when approved by the Bank,
shall not be modified without the consent of the Bank. The
Borrower will not, without the consent of the Bank, take or
permit to be taken any action which interferes with the
implementation of such arrangements.


﻿15
SECTIoN 5.15. (a) The Borrower and the Bank are agreed
that the Project shall enjoy the highest priority and that,
until the Project shall have been carried out, the Borrower
shall undertake or cause to be undertaken or permit to be
undertaken in its territories any major project for the
construction, reconstruction, betterment or maintenance
of any highway (including bridges) not included in the
Project only after it has been determined that the carrying
out of such major project will not adversely affect the
ability of the Borrower to fulfill any of its obligations
under this Agreement. To that end, the Borrower shall
notify the Bank before any such major project shall be
undertaken in its territories, and shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
with respect to such major project.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, a major project
shall be deemed to be one the aggregate cost of which shall
be more than 30 million sucres but shall not include the
construction, reconstruction or improvement of the high-
ways described in Section 5.16 of this Agreement.
SECTIox 5.16. The Borrower shall cause the highways
from Quito via Aloag to Quevedo, from Quininde to
Esmeraldas and from Babahoyo to Duran to be constructed,
reconstructed or improved with due diligence and efficiency.
SECTION 5.17. The Borrower shall make or maintain with
the Comite de Vialidad de la Provincia del Guayas such
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary
for the carrying out of the Borrower's obligations under
this Agreement in respect of such highways as may be
within the jurisdiction of said Coimite.
SECTION 5.18. Except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall repay in
advance of maturity any part of its indebtedness under any
one of the following agreements, namely the Credit Agree-
ment, the DLF Loan Agreement, the First AID Loan


﻿16
Agreement, the Second AID Loan Agreement or the IADB
Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall simultaneously repay
not less than a proportionate amount of this Loan and of
the First Bank Loan, then outstanding. All the provisions
of this Loan Agreement and of the First Bank Loan
Agreement, as the case may be, relating to repayment in
advance of maturity shall be applicable to any repayment
by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur, or (ii) if
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.02
of the Loan Regulations shall occur and shall co-tinue for
a period of thirty days, or (iii) if any event specified in
paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations or
in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may declare
the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then out-
standing to be due and payable immediately, and upon any
such declaration such principal shall become due and pay-
able immediately, anything in this Agreement or in the
Bonds to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. The following additional events are speci-
fied for the purposes of paragraph (h) of Section 5.02 of
the Loan Regulations:
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, the DLF Loan Agreement, the First AID Loan
Agreement, the Second AID Loan Agreement, the IADB
Loan Agreement or the Credit Agreement shall have been,
in any material respect, amended, assigned, waived or
terminated (otherwise than after full repayment at the


﻿17
agreed maturity or repayment made at the option of the
Borrower prior to such maturity) without the agreement
of the Bank;
(b) Any event shall have occurred which shall have
operated to suspend the right of the Borrower to withdraw
amounts under the DLF Loan Agreement, the First AID
Loan Agreement, the Second AID Loan Agreement, the
IADB Loan Agreement or the Credit Agreement;
(c) The DLF, the AID, the IADB or the Association
respectively, shall, in accordance with the terms of the DLF
Loan Agreement, the First AID Loan Agreement, the
Second AID Loan Agreement, the IADB Loan Agreement
or the Credit Agreement respectively, demand payment
from the Borrower of moneys lent to the Borrower prior
to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(d) The Decrees No. 529 or 530 of the Borrower,
respectively published in the Registro Oficial No. 206 of
March 16, 1964 and No. 208 of March 18, 1964, the arrange-
ments referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 5.14, in
Section 5.17 or in paragraph (f) of Section 7.01 of this
Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended, termi-
nated or repealed so as to affect adversely the ability of
the Borrower to carry out the covenants and agreements
set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 9.01 (b) of the Loan
Regulations:
(a) The terms and conditions of the First AID Loan
Agreement, the Second AID Loan Agreement and of the
IADB Loan Agreement shall be satisfactory to the Bank
and the conditions precedent, if any, to initial disbursement
under such Agreements shall have been fulfilled;


﻿18
(b) The Credit Agreement shall have become effective in
accordance with its terms;
(c) The Borrower shall have retained engineering con-
sultants pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the undertakings by
Banco Central del Ecuador in Section 5.04 of this Agree-
ment contained, are valid and binding obligations of Banco
Central del Ecuador;
(e) The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that after the date of this
Agreement and prior to the Effective Date Banco Central
del Ecuador shall have taken no action which would have
constituted a violation of the provisions of Section 5.04 of
this Agreement had it been effective on the date such action
was taken;
(f) Arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have
been made to create the Project Revolving Fund; and
(g) The arrangements provided for in paragraph (a) of
Section 5.14 and in Section 5.17 of this Agreement shall
have been duly and validly executed and shall have become
effective in accordance with their respective terms.
SECTION 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 9.02 (c) of the Loan
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank:
(a) That the undertakings by Banco Central del Ecuador
in Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement contained, constitute
valid and binding obligations of Banco Central del Ecuador
in accordance with their terms;
(b) That (i) the arrangements provided for in para-
graph (a) of Section 5.14, in Section 5.17 and in paragraph
(f) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall have been duly
and validly executed, (ii) all acts, consents and approvals


﻿19
necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed
or given, and (iii) such arrangements shall have become
effective in accordance with their respective terms.
SECTION 7.03. A date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
9.04 of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be January 31,
196?
SECTION 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Republic of Ecuador
Ministerio de Obras Piblicas
y Comunicaciones
Calle Chile No. 1267
Quito, Ecuador
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Minobras
Quito
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.


﻿20
SECTION 8.03. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 8.03 of the Loan
Regulations.
Ix WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower and the Bank, acting
through their representatives thereunto duly authorized,
have caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their
respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written, and Banco Central del Ecuador, acting through its
duly authorized representative, has evidenced its accept-
ance of its obligations under Section 5.04 of this Agreement.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ S. D. MorocHz
By /s/ JosE A. CORREA
Authorized Representatives
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President
BANCO CENTRAL DEL ECUADOR
By /s/ G. PEREZ CHIRIBOGA
Authorized Representative


﻿21
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*
August 1, 1969                                $120,000
February 1, 1970                               125,000
August 1, 1970                                 130,000
February 1, 1971                               130,000
August 1, 1971                                 135,000
February 1, 1972                               140,000
August 1, 1972                                 145,000
February 1, 1973                               145,000
August 1, 1973                                 150,000
February 1, 1974                               155,000
August 1, 1974                                 160,000
February 1, 1975                               165,000
August 1, 1975                                 170,000
February 1, 1976                               175,000
August 1, 1976                                 175,000
February 1, 1977                               180,000
August 1, 1977                                 185,000
February 1, 1978                               190,000
August 1, 1978                                 200,000
February 1, 1979                               205,000
August 1, 1979                                 210,000
February 1, 1980                               215,000
August 1, 1980                                 220,000
February 1, 1981                               225,000
August 1, 1981                                 235,000
February 1, 1982                               240,000
August 1, 1982                                 245,000
February 1, 1983                               250,000
August 1, 1983                                 260,000
February 1, 1984                               265,000
August 1, 1984                                 275,000
February 1, 1985                               280,000
August 1, 1985                                 290,000
February 1, 1986                               295,000
August 1, 1986                                 305,000
February 1, 1987                               315,000
August 1, 1987                                 320,000
February 1, 1988                               330,000
August 1, 1988                                 340,000
February 1, 1989                               350,000
August 1, 1989                                 355,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see Loan Regulations, Section 3.03), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿22
PREMIUMS ON PREPAYMENT AND REDEMPTION
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05 (b) of the Loan Regulations or on the redemption of
any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 6.16
of the Loan Regulations:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption     Premium
Not more than three years before maturity. 1/2o
More than three years but not more
than six years before maturity ..... ....  1%
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity.......... 11/2%
More than eleven years but not more than
sixteen years before maturity.........2.1.  2 / . 2%%
More than sixteen years but not more than
twenty-one years before maturity... I ... 31/2%
More than twenty-one years but not more
than twenty-three years before maturity. 41/2%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity .................... 51/2%


﻿23
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Stage I
A. Completion of Highways partly financed under First
Bank Loan
Completion of construction of the following paved all-
weather highways:
(i) from Duran to Cochancay, together with the branch
from this road to Milagro (approximately 92
kilometers);
(ii) from Chone, via San Antonio, to Bahia de Caraquez
(approximately 48 kilometers); and
(iii) from Chone to Santo Domingo (approximately 164
kilometers).
Such highways are presently under execution and this
Part of the Project is scheduled for completion by the
end of 1965.
B. Hfighway Maintenance Program
The execution of a five-year program for the mainte-
nance of the highways of the national highway system of
the Borrower which will be carried out by the Ministerio
de Obras Publicas of the Borrower along the lines recom-
mended by consulting engineers. The program includes (i)
the strengthening of the national road maintenance organi-
zation of the Borrower, (ii) the completion of work shops,
warehouses and other facilities in all maintenance districts
for the repair and maintenance of road maintenance equip-
ment, (iii) the acquisition, reconditioning, operation and
maintenance of road maintenance equipment, (iv) the insti-
tution and operation of a comprehensive training program
for maintenance personnel, and (v) the provision of all


﻿24
labor, materials and supervision necessary for the execution
of the program.
C. Engineering Services
Consulting engineering services in connection with (i)
Part A and B above and the construction, reconstruction or
improvement of the highways described in Section 5.16 of
this Agreement, and (ii) studies, design and documentation
concerning the highways included in Part D below.
Stage II
D. New Highway Construction
The construction up to completion or reconstruction or
improvement of the following paved all-weather trunk
highways:
(i) from Santo Domingo to Quininde (approximately
83 kilometers);
(ii) from  Quevedo to Babahoyo (approximately 139
kilometers)
(iii) from Cajabamba via Bucay to Chilcales (approxi-
mately 149 kilometers);
(iv) from Manuel J. Calle to Machala (approximately
131 kilometers).
Such highways are expected to be completed by the
end of 1968.
E. Engineering Services
Consulting engineering services in connection with the
supervision of the construction of the highways included
in Part D of the Project above.
F. Studies of other Highways
Feasibility studies and final engineering of further high-
ways to be selected by the Borrower in agreement with the
Bank.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 3
Modification of Loan Regulations No. 3
For the purposes of this Agreement the provisions of
Loan Regulations No. 3 of the Bank, dated February 15,
1961, shall be deemed to be modified as follows:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 and
the substitution therefor of a new paragraph (c) as follows:
"A default shall have occurred in the performance of
any other covenant or agreement on the part of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds, or
on the part of Banco Central del Ecuador under Sec-
tion 5.04 of the Loan Agreement."
(b) By the deletion of Section 4.06.


