Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10010-CHA Type: (SAR)                              Rpr o  01-H
MARTINEZ, / X84072 / A7019/ A3EH                              Report#o. 10010-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
FEBRUARY 11, 1992
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II (China and.Mongolia)
East Asia and Pacifice Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of October, 1991)
Currency Name       -     Renminbi (RNB)
Currency Unit       -     Yuan (Y) - 100 Fen
Y 1.00          -     $ 0.19
$ 1.00                Y y 5.33
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOC                   Government of China
Gongban Teacher   -  Teacher Financed by Government Budget
Minban Teacher    -  Community Supported Teacher
MIS               -  Management Information System
MOF               -  Ministry of Finance
RMC               -  World Bank Resident Mission in China
SEdC              -  State Education Commission
SPC               -  State Planning Commission
GLOSSARY
Province  - China is divided into 23 provinces, five autonomous regions and
three municipalities
County    - Chinese provinces are subdivided into prefectures and
municipalities. Prefectures are subdivided into cities and
counties
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4-
£E!.GAIJON DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BU;=oXOM:            People's Republic of China
Beneficg rie-s:      Guizhou, Hubei, Hunan, Shaanxi, Shanxi and Yunnan
Provinces
bA"unt:               SDR 93.2 million (US$130.0 million equivalent)
Texmus:              Standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity
Qnolnsing
Terms:               The Government of China (GOC) will make the proceeds of
the Credit available to the provincial governments at no
interest over a period of 20 years, including a five year
grace p6-ioO. For amounts on-lent in foreign exchange
provinces will pay a 1% p.a. service charge and 0.5% p.a.
commitment fee. For amounts on-lent in local currency
provinces will pay up to 3% p.a. service charge and no
commitment fee. The provincial governments will bear the
foreign exchange risk. The provincial governments will
onlend a portion of the Credit proceeds in local currency
to participating municipalities and counties, on the same
terms as from GOC to provincial governments, or on more
concessional terms, in cases where the provinces consider
it is appropriate.
Project
Objectives:          The project will support three main goals for the
development of education in relatively poor provinces in
the next decade to: (a) improve literacy, school
attendance ratios and school efficiency and quality by
assisting the provincial governments to implement its
nine year compulsory education requirements; (b) support
ongoing efforts to carry out institutional reforms needed
to improve the management of provincial universities, and
their quality and efficiency; and (c) improve overall
planning and management of provincial and municipal
educational services.
Project
Desrigtionl:         to support the implementation of the compulsory education
law, the Project will finance investments needed in small
towns and rural areas to support reforms in municipal and
county education services. These reforms include:
increasing the number of complete schools (i.e., those
that offer all grades of primary education) by increasing
multigraded classes; provision of free textbooks to very
poor children; -educing repetition rates; improving
resource management by increasing the workload of urban
teachers and the budget for non-salary items, and by
improving quality related school inputs such as library
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
books and teaching aids; improving the qualifications of
teachers, especially of rural teachers; and increasing
the share of investment resources for poor and
disadvantaged small villages. To assist the process of
restructuring of higher education, the project will
support pilot projects in selected universities that are
attempting to improve efficiency through internal
reorganization and mergers, The restructuring includes
rationalization of departments to reduce narrow
specialization and to provide broader courses that
increase the floxibility of graduates. Finally, to
improve planning and management of county education
bureaus, the project will support adoption, in project
counties, of the software already developed in China to
collect and analyze data on teachers, students,
infrastructure and resources. It will also improve the
student examination systems and the bureaus, capacity to
do research and to preparp future investment plans.
Benefits:             The primary beneficiaries of the Project will be the
children, mainly rural and poor, who will be able to
attend and complete their basic education with better
quality and relevance. Improved basic education will
lead to higher literacy and higher productivity of rural
areas. The Project will also develop the education
services by improving efficiency of selected
universities, and providing the central and provincial
governments with the capacity to pilot the institutional
reforms needed in China to expand and improve university
programs. As a result of the proposed reforms,
universities will be more cost-efficient and will provide
better trained professionals needed in a more dynamic
labor market. Thirdly, activities supported by the
Credit will supply models for the implementation of
reforms in China's use of education resources,
particularly in poorer areas.
Risks:                The principal risk lies in the ability of the provincial
governments to manage project implementation and to
provide counterpart fui.ds. There are a large number of
provincial, municipal and local institutions involved in
the implementation of the project and the managerial
structure in the provincial education bureaus is weak.
To minimize the risk, technical assistance and training
will be provided to support institution building and
detailed monitoring plans will be prepared to allow
timely identification of problems and adoption of
corrective measures. Careful project preparation with
detailed implementation plans will also mitigate the
institutional weaknesses. A second risk is the possible
lack of counter-art funding in the poorest counties. The
six provinces have committed themselves to resolve this
problem by providing special funds earmarked for the
implementation of this project. Detailed financial plans



-iii'
and well conceived monitoring instruments have been
prepared to mitigate this risk.
Estimad Cs:  a                            Lcal 
---- (US$ million) -
Basic Education                       111.2        18.9          130.1
Higher Education                       19.4        13.8           33.2
Planning and Management                 1.6         1.4            3.0
Total Baseline Costs                  132.2        I "           166.3
Physical Contingencies                  9.8         2.7           12.5
Price Contingencies                    22.6         3.5           26.1
Total Progect Cost                    164.6        40.3          204.9
FinaUging Plan:                           Local       Foreign       Total
-(-- (US$ million) ------
Municipal and County                    37.8            -         37.8
Governments
Provincial Governments                  37.1            -         37.1
IDA                                     89.7        40.3         130.0
Total                                  164          40.._3       204.9
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                        92    93    24    95    96       97    98
----------- (US$ million) -------------
Annual                        7.2   9.8  20.0  30.0  25.0   25.0   13.0
Cumulative                    7.2  17.0  37.0  67.0  92.0  117.0  130.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Map: No. 23543
-a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



-iv-
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENr IN POOR PROV;NCES PROJECT
STAFF- APRIA R&EPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                            i
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND . .                                1 . . . . . . . . . . . .  I
A.  Introduction and Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
B.    Key  Sector  Issues  .  .  .  .  .  .                     6 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
C. Government Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11
D.  Bank Group Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
E.  Experience with Past Lending and Sect.r Work  . . . . .    13
II.  PROJECT AIMS. OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS . . . . . . . . . .    14
A.  Project Aims and Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . .    14
B.  Project Provinces and Project Counties  . . . . . . . .    15
C.  Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
D.    Project  Components   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Basic Education Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Higher Education Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Planning, Financing and Management Systems Component  .    30
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
A.    Project  Costs   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
B.    Financing  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
A.  Organization and Management . . . . . . . . ... . . . .    35
B.    Procurement   .  .  i  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
C. Accounts and Audits ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  39
D.  Disbursements .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
China in June 1991. Mission members were: Himelda Martinez (ASTPH, Task
Manager, Senior Educator), David Klaus (Senior Operations Officer, EA1PH),
Eric Thulstrup (Science Educator, PHREE), Halsey Beemer (Higher Education
Specialist ASTPH, Consultant), Min Weifang (Education Management Specialist,
ASTPH, Consultant), Gareth Williams (E~conomist, Consultant), Arden Koontz
(Research Assistant) and Fang Ying (RMC). Peer reviewers include: Jack van
Luberburg Maas (Senior Educator, LA2PH), David Klaus (Senior Operations
Officer), Eileen Nkwanga (Senior Educator, AF4PH), and Richard Durstine
(Senior Educator, EA2EH). The Division Chief is Zafer Ecevit (EA2EH) and the
Department Director is Shahid Javed Burki (EA2DR).



Pagg Ng.
V.   AENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . .  . . .  . . .  . . . . . .  .          41
VI, AREEHENSI  RFACHED AND RECOMMEN)ATIO  .   ..........43
VI.L
TABLES
2.1  Basic Information on Project Provinces. . . . . . . . . . . .           16
2.2  Basic Information About Project Counties. . . . . . . . . . .           18
3.1  Project Cost Summary by Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           33
3.2  Project Cost By Summary Account   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           34
3.3  Financing Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           35
4.1  Procurement Arrangements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           39
4.2  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           41
ASNEXES
Annex 1.   The Compulsory Education Law. . . . . . . . . . . . . .           45
Annex 2.   Basic Enrollment Statistics and First Grade
Repetition Rates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          49
Annex 3.   Summary of Bank-Assisted Education Projects
in    China.     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  50
Annex 4.   Investment and Financing Plans for Hubei Province . . .           55
Annex 5.   Socio-economic Information for Project
Provinces and Counties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          62
Annex 6.   Sample Policy Letter. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           66
Annex 7.   Provincial Policy Action Plans - Peformance
Indicators.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  68
Annex 8.   School Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           72
Annex 9.   School Equipment and Books. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           75
Annex 10.  Technical Assistance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           78
Annex 11.  Teacher Training Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           91
Annex 12. Criteria for Selection of Pilot Projects
for the Higher Education Component. . . . . . . . . . .          96
Annex 13.  Executive Summaries of Project Institutions . . . . . .          103
Annex 14.  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          114
Annex 15.  Counterpart Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          119
Annex 16.  Project Management Structure. . . . . . . . . . . . . .          121
Annex 17.  Supervision Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          123
Annex 18.  Documents Available in the Project File . . . . . . . .          127
MAP
IBRD No. 23543



CHIN
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.  Introduction and Background
1.1       The proposed project is part of IDA's strategy of supporting human
capital development and poverty alleviation in China. It addresses key reform
issues in the management of education institutions and it provides IDA with
the opportunity to extend targeted assistance to 114 remote and poor counties
in 6 of the least developed provinces of China, and to assist between 10 and
15 small provincially managed universities perceived as critical to the
development of human resources for the poor areas of China. The special
&fatures of the project are:
(a) it will assist China to carry out its plan to make primary education
universal and to expand the coverage of lower secondary education in
poor areas. It supports the declaration of the 1990 World
Conference on Education for All;
(b) it is the first IDA project that directly supports primary level
schools in China;
(c) it is the first IDA project that targets education in remote and
rural areas;
(d) it has a provincial focus. All activities were designed in close
cooperation with provincial governments and will be implemented by
provincial bureaus;
(e) it will promote managerial reforms and institutional development by
encouraging efficiency measures in the administration of education
bureaus and education institutions. The project supports government
efforts to enhance the management and financing of education at
local levels by encouraging poor counties to undertake reforms in
the staffing of schools, in the provision of low-cost basic teaching
materials, in the maintenance of schools and in the collection and
management of school statistics and school monitoring indicators.
Local education bureaus at the village and county levels have
undergone several reforms during the 1980s and have recently been
made responsible for managing schools which in the past were managed
either by the communes or by higher levels of government. The
project will strengthen their capacity to undertake the new
responsibilities;



(f) it supports ongoing efforts to carry out the institutional reforms
needed to improve the management of provincial universities and
their quality and efficiency. About 700 of the 1,100 institut3.zons
of higher education in China are relatively small and therefore not
cost efficient. Efforts to tackle this problem are being tested on
a pilot basis by provincial governments before major reforms are
undertaken at the national level. The project would support such
pilot reforms in 10 to 15 small universities and would include
efforts to disseminate the lessons to other institutions in the six
provinces selected for the project;
(g) the project is also a vehicle for better understanding and better
organiizing the financing of education in the poor areas of China.
Disbandment of the commune system and the financial reforms of the
1980s have affected the government's mechanisms for allocating
resources to the social sectors. The project would monitor the
impact of the new financing mechanisms as well as parents,
willingness and capacity to continue to finance a large proportion
of the costs of schooling. This information will enhance policy
dialogue, monitoring, supervision and evaluation of the efforts to
provide "Education for All"; and
(h) in the lo..g term, the project would lead to a more effective
delivery of education services resulting in higher school
attendance, higher completion rates and reduced illiteracy,
particularly among women and minority groups. This will in turn
increase productivity, facilitate success of other investments in
poor areas, and contribute to rapid economic and social development
through a better trained labor force.
1.2       Achievements.  Compared with other developing countries, China has
been remarkably successful in establishing a comprehensive schooling for its
citizens. Enrollments in primary and secondary education are higher than
those in most developing countries, with more than 90 percent of the 6-to-11-
year-olds enrolled in primary school and more than 40 percent of the 12-to-15-
year-olds attending lower secondary school. As a result, literacy rates are
higher in China than in countries with similar levels of economic development.
It is estimated that the literacy rate for the adult population (15 years old
or older) is close to 75 percent and improving. It is close to 90 percent
among the 15 to 25 year old group. This is an impressive achievement for a
country that has a high proportion of its people in the rural areas.
Qualitative improvements have also been observed at all levels of the system
especially in the higher and technical education sectors. University
enrollments were significantly expanded during the early 1980s but have been
stabilized in recent years in order to upgrade the quality of teaching and
training. The Government has been committed to strengthening the capability
to train skilled manpower and develop research capacity within the
universities and technical institutes. The World Bank has assisted efforts to



-3-
upgrade university education through eight projects.l/ A special
characteristic of Chinese education is the observable fact that schools are
well organized: teachers are known to be diligent, textbooks are widely
availatle, and serious systematic attempts hawn been made to upgrade the
curricula and improve the teaching methodologies.
1.3       Success in expanding school enrollment can be attributed to the
introduction during the 1960s of the "minban gonz&bh  concept:  "management by
the people and supported by the Government."  "Minban" schools (people managed
schools) were widely organized throughout China. Local authorities build the
schools using funds collected at the local level, and payment for teachers are
made from local contributions (usually in cash but also sormetimes by providing
food and lodging). Teachers financed by the local people are called "minban
teachers,, while teachers paid with government funds are called "gongban"
teachers. About 50 percent of the teachers in primary schools are still
lnminban" teachers. They are selected by the local people and are accountable
to them. In recent years they have begun to receive a "living allowanceu from
the government, wlich is meant to compensate for the funding received until
the early 1980s from the local communes. Direct local contributions account
for about 40 percent of the total expenditures in teachersv salaries, a very
substantial proportion of the total education expenditure in the rural areas.
This is an indication of high value placed by parents on their children's
education. Success in expanding and improving the education system can also
be attributed to the growth in government budgetary allocations to education
during the last decade, and to successful population programs. Government
expenditure in education grew from eight percent of the total government
budget in 1980 to 11 percent in the late 1980s. Higher government
expenditures coupled with a reduced number of school-aged children have
allowed a higher per-student expenditure at all levels of education. In
primary education, per-student expenditure has almost tripled: in constant
1980 yuan it grew from 20 yuan in 1980 to about 58 yuan in 1989. In secondary
education, it grew from 60 yuan In 1980 to 140 in 1989. In higher education,
per student expenditure grew from 1700 yuan in 1980 to 2100 yuan in 1986 but
then started to decline in 1987, reaching about 1800 yuan in 1990.
1.4       Another reason for China's success in the development of education
has been its effort to enhance the responsivaness of education to the human
capital demands of the changing economy. Following the agricultural, economic
and financial reforms undertaken in China during the 1980s, the Government
announced in May 1985 its "Decision to Reform the Education Structure."
1/   The University Development Project (Ln 2021-CHA/CR.1167-CHA) assisted the
28 universities managed by the SEdC. The Second University Development
Project (Cr. 1551-CHA) assisted 34 universities affiliated with various
line ministries. The Provincial University Project (Cr. 1671-CHA)
assisted 60 universities administered by provincial governments.
Agricultural Training was supported through two projects: Credit 1297-
CHA and Loan 2444/Credit 1500-CHA. A Medical Education Project assisted
medical universities under the Ministry of Public Health. A Teacher
Training Project (Cr. 1908 CHA) assisted teacher training institutions in
17 provinces and 3 municipalities. The Key Studies Development Project
supported research and graduate student training in 133 laboratories
affiliated with universities and the Chinese Academy of Science.



Development Plans for 1985-1990 and 1990-1995 are designed to support the
implementation of this reform, The reform calls for four major changes:
(a) the provision of nine years of basic education for all school-age children
and the devolution of responsibility for primary education to the local
authorities; (b) the development of vocational and technical education at the
secondary and post-secondary levels, including the conversion of schooln into
vocational schools to accommodate 50 percent of student in upper-secondary-
level schools in vocational programs: (c) the restructuring of institutions of
higher education by reforming the enrollment-planning methods and job-
assignment system and by increasing their institutional autonomy and decision-
making power; and (d) the strengthening of education management at all levels
by strengthening the role of principals and local authorities in the design
and implementation of the reforms. The main goals of the government for
developing education and the main difficulties encountered for implementing
the proposed reforms are summarized below.
Education Reform - Goals and Challenge,
1.5       Compulsory Basic Education.  Compulsory education is achieved when
all school-age children attend school and when such attendance is enforced by
law. Universal education is achieved when there are a sufficient number of
school places for all school-age children. On the basis of the "*Decision to
Reform the Education Structure,, on April 12, 1986, the Government tassed a
"Compulsory Education Law", which instituted a nine-year basic education
system, divided in two stages: elementary school education (with 5 or 6
grades) and lower secondary education (with 3-or-4 grades, depending on the
provincial plans). The law gave provincial and local governments the
responsibility for establishing the stages required for enrolling all children
in school, and for adopting a 5-or-6 year primary education cycle followed by
a 3-or-4-year secondary cycle. Specific implementation plans were prepared
between 1986 and 1990 for all provinces and for all municipalities.  According
to these plans, "compulsory" education should be achieved gradually in
different regions, with more developed areas achieving universal education
first, and less developed areas more gradually. Although school enrollment is
high at present, only about 60 percent of the children in China finish the 5-
or-6-year elementary education program and only 40 percent the junior
secondary school. The target is that by the year 2000, all children should be
able to complete elementary school education and by the year 2010 all children
should attain 9 years of basic education. In cities and towns, all children
should have 9 years of basic education before the end of the century, and in
rural areas targets are to be adopted according to socioeconomic conditions.
The law states that: (a) the Covernment will subsidize economically
underdeveloped areas so that they may provide compulsory education; (b) the
growth of financial appropriations for compulsory education should be higher
than other appropriations; and (c) average expenses per student should be
gradually increased. The text of the Law is in Annex 1.
1.6       Vocational Education.  The second key objective of the Government is
to provide 50 percent of upper-secondary school students with vocational
education. It is believed that productivity can be enhanced by providing
school leavers with specialized vocational training instead of a broader
general secondary school curriculum. This objective has been questioned by
the Bank because as in many other developing countries, further studies of
actual employment patterns and trends are needed before education bureaus
undertake reforms of the secondary-school courses. The mechanistic manpower
forecasts being conducted by municipalities and local governments are not



-5 .
considered adequate for predicting future vocational education requirements
for a rapidly developing economy. International experience suggests that
highly specialized vocatioaal courses in secondary schools are expensive and
not sufficiently flexible to respond to a labor market which will increasingly
put a high premium on flexibility and mobility of labor.2./ The Bank has
thus recommended caution in the reform of secondary schools and in line with
its policies on the subject encourages the development of Skill Worker
Schools (SWS), attached to  -. r bureaus, to enterprises and factories,
instead of promoting special".cion in vocational courses of the schools run
by local education bureaus. Skill Worker Schools have a long and well-
established tradition in China and can provide about 10 percent of secondary
graduates with technical skills.
1.7       Higher Education.  The third objective of the Education Reform is to
improve the efficiency and quality of the higher education system. This
objective is planned to be implemented very gradually, due to the costs
involved and the need to improve the efficiency of the system before
proceeding with expansionary targets. The Government has now recognized that
there is a shortage of successful experiences for re-organizing and re-
adjusting the internal structure of universities. It has therefore decided to
stabilize for the near future the total student enrollment at its present
level of about 2 million regular full-time students during 1991-1995 and it
intends to increase the enrollment by about two to three percent annually
during 1996-2000. It will gradually start rationalizing the structure of
institutions of higher )ducation by reducing the number of small institutions
which are not cost-effective and reorganizing subject specializations into
broader groups and subject areas. The target is to raise the quality of
instruction and increase the efficiency with which existing facilities are
used. These reforms are to be introduced in pilot universities first and,
after evaluation, positive results are to be implemented in other places. In
the long term, it is expected that enrollmbnt will increase in the more cost-
efficient colleges and universities which will be gradually given more
institutional autonomy, The job allocation system will be gradually modifi
to allow for greater mobility and flexibility. The present policy is to
proceed by a very cautious systematic and incremental approach with well-
designed and well evaluated pilot projects as experiments.
1,8       Management Reform.  Fourth, the Governirunt plans to continue
improving the management and administration of the education system by
improving management at provincial, county and local levels. The very
centralized administrative system has been changing since the early 1980s.
The 1985 reform delegated financial responsibility for schools to provincial
and local governments.  Apart from 300 universities operated by the central
ministries, the central government does not directly manage nor does it
finance education activities. Higher education is primarily run by provincial
bureaus, secondary education by prefectural and country bureaus and primary
education by cities, townships and village governments.
2/ See World Bank, Skills for Productivity and Policies for Vocational and
Technical Education and Training in Developing Countries. Education and
Employment Division. Population and Human Resource Department, 1990; and
World Bank, China Department, Technical/Vocational Education for China's
IeveloRment, gray cover sector report no. 6789-CHA, 1987.



-6-
1.9       The l9PJ Decision on Reform of the Education Structure states that
"resolute steps must be taken to streamline administration, devolve power to
units at lower levels, and extend the school's decision-making power in the
administration of educational affairs." Local governments are to be assisted
by higher levels of government in their efforts to accGmplish compulsory
education. Fundamental policy changes regarding the Education Structure are
expected to be issued at the national level by the State Education Commission
(SEdC) but the methods and procedures as well as the timing of policy reforms
are expected to be decided at local levels.
1.10      Regarding the management of higher education institutions, the 1985
government documents proposed that the Central Government delegate the
decision-making power to colleges and universities, including the authority to
redefine the objectives of academic programs and specialties, draw up teaching
plans and syllabuses, select teaching materials, establish teaching consortia
with research institutions, appoint and remove vice-presidents and other
administrators, and decide how to use the goverrment's allocations.
1.11      It is expected that as the reform process deepens, accountability
and responsiveness of education to new local realities and demands will be
increased. However, it can also be foreseen that economically backward
localities will be increasingly disadvantaged in their efforts to offer good
quality education to all children. Moreover, local government structures are
not yet prepared to manage complex education and finance mechanisms and
structures. These issues are discussed below.
B. Key Sector Issues
1.12      The goals of the proposed reform are very comprehensive and
difficult to achieve in a country the size of China.  The main problems will
be in implementing the proposed reforms, due to the diversity of conditions
among different parts of China and to the difficulties found in general in
education systems when administrative changes are called for. The State
Education Commission (SEdC) has been working with the Bank on an analysis of
the issues encountered at the provincial level for implementing the changes
mentioned above and has cooperated in the preparation of a sector study which
examined the issues affecting the development of eiducation at the provincial
level.V/  Four key problems are likely to hinder the implementation of the
reform:
(a) universal basic education will be difficult to achieve because the
rural primary and lower-secondary school systems are inefficient.
This inefficiency is evidenced by very high repetition rates,
especially in the first years of primary school, low student-teacher
ratios, uneven distribution of teachers among urban and rural areas,
incomplete schools, instability of rural teachers in their jobs and
lack of mechanisms to identify efficiency-related issues and to
provide and monitor corrective measures. As a result of these
inefficiencies, although most children register in school (net
j/   China.  Provincial Education Sector Planning and Finance. Sector Study.
The World Bank, China and Mongolia Department. Report No. 8657-CHA,
1991.



- 7 -
enrollment rates are officially reported to be about 97 percent;
even in poor areas), daily attendance is low, and fewer than 60
percent of the children actually complete the six-year cycle;
(b) the development of the higher education system will also be
difficult due to the poorly managed and narrowly specialized
institutions of higher education as evidenced by very high staff-
student ratios, low teaching loads, high numbers of non-teaching
staff and low utilization rates of buildings and equipment and other
facilities. A lack of clarity about how the reform of higher
education will proceed, also inhibits progress;
(c) improvements in the management structure will be difficult because
they involve several layers of government (central, provincial,
county, village and education institution) and because there is
little experience with the management of reform processes. Also,
education statistics and data on education financing and on school
facilities are often incomplete or inaccurate and therefore provide
insufficient information to identify properly and resolve efficiency
vroblems; and
(d) development of education in general will be difficult because
resource allocation procedures do not provide incentives for
efficient resource utilization. Inefficient Higher Education
Institutions tend to absorb a growing percentage of the education
budget. A relatively large part of the resources for education (15
percent) are allocated for poorly conceived and poorly managed
vocational schools which have inadequate or non-existent links with
industries or enterprise, and which do not take account of the
actual needs of employers or of the fact that the labor market
changes rapidly. A high proportion of government expenditures for
basic education (about 87 percent) is used to pay salaries of staff;
little money is appropriated for essential inputs such as books,
equipment and school maintenance.
1.13      High Reoetition Rates.  Chinese statistics usually report as
repeaters those children who are enrolled in school, attend school, attempt
the final exams and fail. They do not include children who enroll, do not
attend school and re-register in the same grade the following year. These
children are counted as drop-outs although they do come to school the
following year. When both factors are taken into account, repetition rates
are extremely high: for the first grade, they are over 35 percent in Guizhou
and over 30 percent in Shaanxi and Hubei (Annex 2). On average, 30 percent of
the first grade primary-school children enrolled in school in a given year are
repeaters. These high repetition rates are a result of two main factors:
(a) the large number of students who cannot master the required curriculum in
a given year; and (b) the large number of students who drop out of school
during the school year for financial or other reasons and come back in
subsequent years to repeat the same grade. The consequences of high
repetition are well known. There is wastage&in the uqe of facilities and
available resources, and the school system needs to be designed for a number
of students that is substantially larger than the corresponding population
group. For example, in the case of China, with a 30 percent repetition rate,
it is necessary to have a school system that can house about 130 students for
every 100 children in the 6 to 11 age cohort. Partial solutions to the
repetition problem have been tried but have not been very effective, as



-8-
evidenced by the low variance in the repetition rates observed during the
1980s. Efforts to allocate more resources to education will be useless if the
system is inefficient, i.e., if students are not attending school or are
dropping out before becomning literate. There has been no change in the
average repetition rates during the last decade, in spite of efforts to
increase the resources for education. Basically, a substantial proportion of
the resources have been used to expand the system's capacity, with
insufficient regard for its efficiency.
1.14      Low Stud et-Teace  Ratios.-  A very important efficiency-related
issue is the student-teacher ratio which, by international standards, is
extremely low in China and has been declining even more during recent years.
In lower-secondary schools there are only 17 students per teacher and in urban
areas the ratio is as low as 13 to 1. In primary schools the ratio has been
rapidly declining, from 25 to 1 in the mid 1980s to 20 to 1 in the early
1990s. Although it is accepted that teachers in China organize their work
differently than in other countries and pay more attention to grading
homework, preparing lessons and visiting students, houses, the low student-
teacher ratio is very costly and hard to justify in financial terms. During
recent years, expenditure per student in China has increased substantially,
but the additional resources have gone to pay for additional teachers, and
there have been no increases in the amounts of funds available for teaching
resources, school maintenance, school equipment and other very necessary
school inputs. Low student-teacher ratios in the cities are the result of
three factors: (a) the fast expansion in the size of teacher training schools,
while the size of the primary student cohort (children aged 6 to 11) declined
due to slower growth in population; (b) the job allocation system that gives
every teacher-training school graduate a job even if no more teachers are
required in schools; and (c) the diversity of teacher-training programs, apart
from normal schools, which provide certification to teachers without regard
for the numbers of teachers actually required. In China as a whole, while
population is declining, by 1996 the size of the primary-school teaching force
will be 1.5 times its present size, if normal schools continue to train
teachers at the present rate.
1.15      Low Participation of  nomen,  Women constitute 70 percent of the
Chinese illiterate population and account for only 28 percent of the
university graduates. Reasons include low completion rates in primary schools
and low attendance in secondary schools. The main reasons for low
participation are financial. Poor parents keep girls at home to help with
income-generating activities, and school fees constitute a substantial claim
on the scarce resources of poor families. Solutions which have been tried
successfully in some areas of China include: (a) publicity and heightened
public awareness of the importance to society of educating girls; (b)
strengthening measures to make education compulsory, with the imposition of
legal sanctions against parents who do not send their girls to school; (c)
improved conditions for rural teachers, so that more female teachers may stay
in rural areas where parents would trust them to educate their girls; and (d)
targeted provision of cash to poor families that need to cover school-related
expenditures such as transportation, notebooks and other supplies.
1.16      Uneven Distribution of Teachers Between Urban and Rural Areas.
Guizhou reports that there is a need for about 3,000 teachers in rural areas
to make primary education universal. In rural schools in Shaanxi, about 50
percent of the teachers simultaneously teach groups of about 40 students of
different ages and grade levels in multi-graded classes. In most rural areas



-9-
there seems to be a great shortage of qualified staff. In cities, however,
there is a large surplus of teachers both in Shaanxi and in Guizhou, as well
as in other areas. A partial solution has been attempted by bringing rural
candidates to the normal schools and then asking them to go back to teach in
their villages when they graduate. It does not seem to be a good solution
because after being in the urban area for some years, these teachers want to
stay where they are and are reluctant to go back to teach in their villages.
Correspondence education and locally organized in-service courses seem to be
more promising solutions.
1.17      Incomplete Schools.  About 60 percent of the schools in the project
provinces are incomplete schools, i.e., they do not offer the full primary
education course (five or six years). About 35 percent offer three or even
fewer grades. The main reason is that communities and villages are small and
do not have sufficient numbers of children to justify a complete school.
Small communities are therefore served by incomplete schools called "Teaching
Points" that offer grades one and two. Children in the higher grades are
expected to walk to a school in a village different from their own or to
attend a boarding school. This is a serious constraint to achieving universal
primary education. Walking more than three miles a day is difficult for most
children, and boarding, a solution successfully managed in many villages, is
costly both in terms of capital requirements for construction and in recurrent
cost requirements for meals and other expenses. The mission estimated that
when both caDital and recurrent costs are considered boarding schools cost
three to 4 times as much as regular schools. Another solution is to expand
the use of "multi-graded teaching," a technique which is practiced
successfully in some communities in China, and in many other countries, with
good results. Further experimentation with multi-graded teaching and training
of teachers is needed in rural areas of China to make it possible for teachers
to manage a multi-graded school successfully and to have at their disposal the
materials that allow children in multi-graded schools to spend some of the
time '.'-arning on their own.
1.18      New Teachers Are Not Well Prepared to Teach in Rural Areas.  Normal
schools and in-service training courses in China focus on teaching subject
matter and methods appropriate for large urban schools, but few courses are
offered for teachers on the methods and techniques required in rural schools.
There is little practice in multi-graded teaching techniques, or in bilingual
education. There are, however, many very experienced teachers who have been
in the rural areas for many years, and who have mastered the techniques and
practices appropriate to teach successfully in rural areas. These teachers
are well known in the communities, are appreciated by their supervisors and
could provide very useful services in training less experienced colleagues.
1.19      Weak Science Teaching in Rural Areas.  Scientific literacy is
essential for China to achieve economic and technological development in
industry and agriculture. Strengthening the capacity to develop scientific
literacy is a vital task of not only at the primary and secondary but also at
the tertiary levels of the educational hierarchy.
1.20      Steps have been taken by the SEdC to improve the teaching of science
at the primary and secondary level by modernizing textbooks and introducing
new curricula. Efforts are being made to reform teaching methods making the
new course offerings less theoretical by providing scientific knowledge which
is related to daily life activities. In urban school systems pilot projects
have been developed to improve the competencies of science teachers and



- 10 -
modernize laboratory practice and equipment, Science clubs and fairs provide
opportunities for urban students to relate science to their daily lives.
1.21      However, these attempts at reforming the way science is taught
remain largely an urban phenomena. In rural areas, needed changes are taking
place very slowly, teachers are being trained at an inadequate pace and little
emphasis is placed on improving and modernizing laboratory practice and
equipment. For the most part, rural science education remains focused on the
rote memorization of abstract theory and complicated formulae. Science
teachers are not trained in practices which would allow the students to take
theory and apply it to the challenges of rural daily life. These problems are
compounded by the fact that county and village administrators have little
understanding of the types of practical and simple activities required to
develop children's scientific literacy in the classroom.
1.22      We&  Science Teachers at the Tertiary Level.  The teaching of
science and engineering echoes some of the weaknesses found in the primary and
secondary levels. While key universities have very good science programs, in
small provincial universities, course offerings and stud- specialties are
narrow, engineering programs are weak in the basic sciences, curricula are
driven by narrowly defined job classifications, teaching emphasizes rote
memory of abstract theory, laboratory exercises are constrained by inadequate
and outdated equipment, and teachers lack access to regular ongoing programs
of updating their course material and teaching methods. Scientific and
technical manpower is trained for positions designated by a job classification
system which has difficulty in remaining current with the rapidly changing
demands of the present labor market, a situation made worse by the general
lack of on-the-job training for new engineering and other technological
personnel. As a result of this type of education, scientists, and to a
greater extent, engineers and technicians are trained to deal with the
immediate problems facing society today and are ill-equipped to deal with the
new problems which will confront society ten years from now.
1.23      Low Internal and External Efficiency of the Small Provincial
Universities. The overall size of the higher education system in China is
small when compared with those of other countries in Asia. On average, only
about 1.7 percent of the 18 to 22 age cohort enroll in higher education. In
Asia 10 percent of the age cohort attend higher education. Nevertheless,
there are many small and inefficient universities with only a few hundred
students, very low student-teacher ratios and high administrative costs.
1.24      Efforts were made during the 1980s to rapidly expand the higher
education system. Enrollments doubled from about one to two million students.
This rapid expansion was carried out without sufficient attention to issues of
costs and economies of scale. Small and narrowly specialized provincial
universities and colleges were established with high unit costs and as a
result a very inefficient system evolved. The average size of Chinese higher
education institutions is 1920 students, a very small size compared with the
rest of Asia where universities have on average more than 3,500 students.
There are, moreover, several provincial institutions with less than 500
students and very low student teacher ratios. The average teaching loads of
university teachers is about four to five hours a week, significantly below
the average of nine hours in the rest of the world. The student-staff ratio
is two to one, which is also extremely low. As a result of this structure,
funds allocated to institutions of higher education must be used to provide
housing, medical and welfare services, transport, and schooling for the



- 11 
children of a very large number of staff as well as meals, accommodation and
welfare services for all enrolled students.
1.25      The Government is aware that simply increasing the size of these
inefficient universities does not make sense, and is finding ways to
rationalize the structure and find more efficient organizational patterns,
before expansion of the system takes place. The Government is also aware that
many of these small institutions produce graduates in very narrowly
specialized fields which are not suitable for a modernizing labor market.
Graduates are trained for a narrow range of jobs on the basis of inaccurate
manpower forecasts and a system of bureaucratic job assiginments, rather than
labor market needs. In some fields of studies, the supply of graduates has
exceeded the demand, while in some other fields, there have been serious
shortages of qualified manpower. For example, in sciences, basic science has
accounted for too large a proportion of the enrollment while applied science
has been relatively small, In engineering, too many programs in heavy
industry engineering and too few programs serve "light" industries. In social
sciences, and humanities and other related professional fields, too many
programs in literature, language, history, and philosophy, in comparison with
the relatively few and weak programs in journalism and communications, library
science, management science, and law. This irrational structure has reduced
the external efficiency of the system.
1.26      Significant changes are taking place in the orientation of the roles
of universities. SEdC has set up a commission to study ongoing experiments in
different provinces to modify the structure of universities. This group will
look at experiments with reorganizations and mergers and will start to
disseminate good practices.
1.27      Under-financing of Recurrent Expenditures.  Per student expenditure
more than doubled during the 1980s in real terms. However, because expendi-
tures in city and town schools grew faster than those in small village and
rural schools, there is serious under-financing of rural schools. Since poor
communities are much less able to mobilize local resources than rich ones,
wide and growing disparities are beginning to emerge in the sector. Also in
urban areas, schools benefit from categorical grants from the provincial or
national governments, but in rural areas, schools rely entirely on local
community support. Many rural schools are in poor physical condition, are
inadequately staffed, and are poorly supplied in terms of books and other
padagogical inputs. A special problem is the low incomes of minban teachers
in the poor communities. Limited pay and poor living conditions cause high
turnover and give teachers low motivation to upgrade their skills and to
remain in the teaching profession.
C. Government Strategy
1.28      The Central Government's overall strategy for education is to
develop broad principles and regulations to guide provincial and local
governments, and to promote local initiative, rather than to impose centrally
designed standards and goals. Its principal concern is to encourage the
development of mechanisms for strengthening the planning and management
capacities of county and village level education bureaus so that they may
implement the compulsory education law using the resources available, and
implement their own targets, according to their own means. Principles to be



- 12 -
encouraged at the national level include "efficiency, quality and equity" as
explained below.
1.29      ZffJi&eLcX, particularly cost-effectiveness in the school management
settings, is a newly developed concept in China. Due to present budgetary
constraints and the need to improve quality and efficiency, central Government
authorities now promote the need to improve the cost-effectiveness of the
system. However, at provincial and local levels, the notion of cost-effec-
tiveness is still very new. There seems to be little awareness among local
managers of the inefficiencies encountered at present, particularly of the
need to reduce high repetition and drop-out rates, and to adopt adequate
student-teacher ratios and teacher workloads.
1.30      Regarding the quality of basic education, the reform of all text-
books is now in progress. It includes the introduction of 8 newly developed
sets of more relevant and adequate books for basic education. The new book
sets have been designed for specific populations: for more advanced coastal
areas, for rural mountainous areas, for children in bilingual schools, etc.
The new sets are being piloted and are expected to be adopted nationally
starting with the first grade in 1993. All teachers are expected to receive
training in the use of the new materials. The Bank is supporting this effort
through a US$57 million credit (Cr 2006-CHA) which has been under implementa-
tion since 1989. Efforts are also being made to provide more in-service
training to teachers, to supply them with required reference materials and
teaching equipment.
1.31      Regarding equity, the education law stipulates that the State shall
subsidize economically underdeveloped areas so that they may introduce
compulsory education. No mechanism has been set up for implementing this
regulation. There are no transfers of funds from central to provincial
governments for the payment of the recurrent costs of basic education and only
a very small transfer of funds to assist in construction of village schools.
The rural schools receive no assistance from higher levels of government.
This project would be the first attempt to subsidize the poor rural schools
and to encourage the transfers of funds from provincial to local governments.
1.32      Regarding Higher Education Reforms, basic policies on higher
education development and reform in the 1990s have been formulated by SEdC.
They include: (a) stabilizing the size of total enrollment at the current
level of about 2 million students for 1991-1995 and increasing it by three
percent annually for 1996-2000; (b) streamlining the structure of higher
education including the administrative structure and the composition of
numbers and types of institutions by length of courses and programs, modes of
delivery, and subject composition; (c) improving both internal and external
efficiency of universities and colleges; (d) raising the instructional quality
of higher education; (e) increasing the institutional autonomy of universities
and colleges in terms of management and finance; (f) by gradually modifying
the student admission mechanism and the graduate job allocation system;
(g) enhancing faculty recruitment and development; and (h) broadening the
content of some specialties. The total number of specialties in the Chinese
higher education system has been reduced from 1,419 to 672 in the past ten
years by combining the narrow specialties into broader fields of studies.
This process is expected to continue in the 1990s. It is estimated that no
more than 300 specialties are needed at college level. It has been accepted
that provinces should experiment with reforms in a limited number of carefully



- 13 -
selected universities, and that these models will serve as a basis for
conceptualizing the reforms that would need to take place after 1996.
D. Bank Group Strategy
1.33      The Bank Group sees its principal role as fostering a continuing
dialogue on sector issues and options, thereby helping to implement the
compulsory education law, and the design of relevant and cost-efficient
reforms of the secondary and higher education systems. Key principles that
are consistent with the Bank's strategies, and which are 'very important in
China today, are the development of planning and management systems that are
more decentralized and market-responsive at the higher education level, and
that promote equity in the implementation of basic education structures. The
Bank is also sensitive to issues that affect the education of women and that
encourage better knowledge of environmental concerns. The broad Bank strategy
in education calls for assisting the government in the following three areas:
(a) to build a modern education system that can produce the innovative
entrepreneurs and skilled workers required for Chinals goal of
economic development through advances in science and technology and
improved quality of the work force;
(b) to adjust the structure and functions of the education system so
that it can better adapt itself to the dynamic changes taking place
in the economy; in particular to adjust to the more flexible employ-
ment policies and practices and growth in the private and tertiary
sectors; and
(c)  to strengthen the capacity of local education authorities to carry
out their new responsibilities under decentralization, or in
response to economic and social development needs.
E. Experience with Past Lending and Sector Work
1.34      Between 1980 and 1989 the Bank approved ten education projects in
China, most of which were managed at the central level by SEdC.   In the early
1980s it approved four successive higher education projects aimed at assisting
expansion and quality improvements in the most prominent and well known
universities, mainly the key universities managed by SEdC, the television
universities and the large provincially-run universities. Since 1985 IDA has
assisted the Central Government in its efforts to increase the provision of
textbooks, to train lower-secondary school teachers and to upgrade selected
vocational schools. Additionally, it has financed a successful project in the
Gansu Province, the only education project limited to one province and managed
by the Provincial Government. This project has, in a short time, achieved
improvements in teaching at the secondary school level. IDA has also approved
a project for assisting three medium sized cities in their efforts to improve
the planning, management and expansion of education at municipal levels, as an
integral part of improvements in urban planning and management. A list of all
Bank-assisted projects in China is given in Annex 3.
1.35      The Bank has also conducted several, studies regarding the education
system in China. A very important study, The Management and Financing of
Higher Education in China, published in 1986, describes the efficiency



- 14 -
problems faced by institutions of higher education and provides valuable
recommendations regarding possible restructuring schemes. During 1989 and
1990, the Bank conducted a study of education in three of the provinces
selected for this project, Guizhou, Shaanxi and Hubei, in order to understand
the main problems faced by provincial authorities in developing the education
system. The study called China: Provincial Education Planning and Finance,
analyzed the management structure of education at the prefectural, county and
village level and the resource allocation mechanisms. The study confirmed:
(a) the need to rationalize the higher education system; and (b) the feasibi-
lity of making basic education universal if efficiency measures are developed
and implemented. Results also show that careful consideration needs to be
given to the design and implementation of a provincial project in order to
establish adequate managerial mechanisms and practices. These managerial
mechanisms and practices should support the new decentralized managerial
structure while maintaining the basic centralized practices in policy design
and curriculum content.
1.36      Valuable lessons have been learned through project implementation
and sector work. First, it has been recognized that projects can be better
designed and better implemented when they concentrate on a reduced number of
provinces and when provincial and municipal authorities are involved in their
design. This is especially true for projects that assist provincially and
locally-financed institutions. Secondly, there is a need to strengthen the
capacity of government institutions to plan and monitor project activities,
and to take corrective actions when needed. Thirdly, the Bank and the
Government need to work together in the evaluation of education reforms.
There is no standardized mechanism in China to measure student achievement,
attendance records are inconsistent, and indicators of progress are not
sufficiently collected to permit the evaluation of progress made in the
development of human resources. These aspects of project development have
been taken into account in the design of this project. The project focuses on
a selected number of provinces to facilitate provincial involvement, to allow
for more dialogue with provincial authorities and closely monitor the proposed
reform.
1.37      Lessons learned also include the need to insist on the inclusion and
implementation of technical assistance, adequately monitor the studies to be
financed by the credit and disseminate the results. These lessons are
reflected in the conditions for lending.
II. PROJECT AIMS. OBJECTIVES-AND COMPONENTS
A. Prolect Aims and Project Formulation
2.1       The overall aim of the project is to assist the Government initia-
ting institutional and policy reforms needed to improve coverage, efficiency,
and quality in primary, lower secondary and higher education institutions in
relatively poor counties/provinces. Specifically, the project will support
three objectives: (a) the provision of nine years of basic education to all
school age children in participating counties; (b) the improvement of the
quality and efficiency of about 11 higher education institutions; and (c) the
improvement and modernization of the planning and management of education at
provincial, municipal and county levels.



- 15 -
2.2       In developing the project, the Bank's principal contribution would
be to introduce concepts of efficiency aiad cost effectiveness for the
implementation of basic education activities as well as for the implementation
of university programs. The project will provide opportunities to assist
county authorities and university managers to formulate investment plans and
action plans that incorporate improvements in the use of staff, infrastruc-
ture, equipment and financial resources. During project preparation all
participating provinces prepared detailed investment plans showing the
recurrent and investment requirements between 1990 and the year 2000 under
different scenarios. All provinces also prepared financing plAma showing the
resources expected to be available from central, provincial and local levels
of government for financing the investment plans. The analysis of these
investment and financing plans led to the preparation of action plan3 showing
the existing and targeted efficiency and quality indicators to be achieved
between 1991 and 1996. These detailed financing, investment and action plans
were appraised by the Bank mission and found acceptable. A sample financing
plan for Hubei province is in Annex 4.
B. Project Provinces and Project Counties
2.3       A basic understanding of the selected provinces and counties is
important for understanding the varying impact in provinces and counties with
different characteristics. Project monitoring plans are geared to better
understanding these differences and being able to transfer lessons learned in
this project to other poor counties and provinces of China.
2.4       Six provinces were selected by the Chinese Government to implement
the project, and it is expected that other provinces will be selected for
follow-up projects in future years. The authorities believe that the three
aims of the project outlined above are valid for the whole education system,
but that implementation has to be phased according to availability of
resources. The six provinces were selected for several reasons: (a) they
represent China's poor and middle income provinces with populations ranging
from 30 to 70 million; (b) the problems faced by the education system in these
provinces represent the problems faced by education in other poor and middle
income provinces; (c) the size of the provinces is considered appropriate for
a program of innovation which can have an impact and whose results might be
replicated in other places; and (d) the education authorities in these
provinces are considered capable of adopting the innovative approaches
envisioned for the project. Basic socioeconomic information for the selected
provinces is shown in Table 2.1 and in Annex 5. Yunnan and Guizhou are the
two poorest provinces with the lowest GNP per capita and the highest percent-
age of rural population. They also have the lowest literacy rates and the
smaller size of university enrollment. Hubei and Hunan are the largest
provinces among the six provinces, and Hubei has the highest GNP per capita:
1342 yuan, still lower that the average for China. All six provinces have
made efforts to improve education and, as seen in the table below, in all
cases the provincial governments spend between 17 percent and 20 percent of
their budget on education.



abl. 2,1: Basic Information or Project Provinces
(1990)
Guizhou   Hukei   Hunan  5hanxi  Shanxi Yunnan  China
Population (in million)   31.7       52.6   60.1    31.9      27.9    36.5  1,111.9
Population under 15
years of age (%)             32        28      29      28       28       32     27.7
Rural Population (%)         88        78      85      82       78       87       80
GNP per capita (yuan)       748     1,342  1,077   1,074    1,262       871    1,420
Literacy rate (%)            75        84      88      82       89       75       84
Total Ed. Expenditure        17        13      19      25       17       13       12
as % of Total Government
Expenditure.
Government Education         25        23      24      27       37       22       29
Expenditure per capita
(yuan)
University students per       9        23      15      18       31       12       18
10,000 population
2.5       Project Counties.  There are 607 counties in the six selected
provinces with a total population of 240 million people. Between 15 and 20
counties were selected in each province by the provincial authorities to
implement the basic education component of the project, for a total of 114
counties in the six provinces. Selection was based on poverty levels. In all
provinces the counties with lowest incomes were selected. The average
population of the selected counties is 315,000 ranging from the large counties
of Hubei with 500,000 people each to the small counties of Shanxi with about
131,000 people each.
2.6       Together there are about 36 million people in the 114 project
counties. No GNP data is available for the counties, but income levels can be
compared using the farmers' cash income per capita which gives a good indica-
tion of the very extreme level of poverty in selected counties. The average
farmers cash income per capita ranges from 206 Yuan in the counties selected
for the project in Guizhou Province to 374 Yuan in the counties selected in
Hunan. The average farmers' income per capita in China is about 450 Yuan.



- 17 -
2.7       Although all selected counties are among the poorest counties in
China, there are significant variations among their revenue and expenditure
levels. In 1989, the last year for which comparative county level data are
available, the courty revenue per capita in the project counties was 27.4 Yuan
in Guizhou and 64.1 Yuan in Hunan.L/ County expenditure levels are higher
than county revenues, indicating that selected counties are subsidized by the
provincial governments. Government expenditure per capita ranged from 114
Yuan in Shanxi to 41 Yuan in Guizhou and Yunnan.
2.8       Education expenditures are a high proportion of the government
expenditures in all selected counties but there are significant variations
among provinces: 22 percent of government expenditure is allocated to educa-
tion in Shanxi and 41 percent in Shaanxi. As can be observed in Table 2.2,
the project counties irn Shanxi and Yunnan have the highest government expendi-
ture levels, but not necessarily the highest education expenditure levels.
Shaanxi and Hunan seem to give more importance to education in poor counties
than the other provinces.
i/    County revenue is the revenue collected at the county level without
including the subsidies provided by the provincial government.



- 18 -
Table 2.2: Basic Information About Project Counties
(1990)
Guizhou  Hubei  Hunan  Shaanxi Shanxi   Yunnan
Number of Counties in           86      71     98      107     118    127
the Province.
Number of Counties with          8      45     62       92      26     44
Universal Primary
Education
% of Counties with Universal   10       63     64      86       22     35
Primary Education
Number of Counties rated        31      37     28       69      35     41
as Poor
Number of Poor Counties         20      19     15       20      20     20
included in the Project
Population of Project         7.02   9.49   5.78    5.75    2.62   5.24
Counties (in million)
Average Farmer's Cash          206    281    374       302     310    217
Income Per Capita (in
project counties) - Yuan
Total County Government         27      57     64       33      40     41
Revenue Per Capita - (in
project counties) - Yuan
Government Expenditure          41      79     68      48      114     94
Per Capita (in project
counties) - Yuan
Education Expenditure           28      22     30      41       22     25
as % of Total County
Government Expenditure. (in
project counties) - Yuan
2.9       There are also great variations in education achievement levels
among the selected counties. Enrollment rates range from 50 to 90 percent
with the lowest enrollment rates in poor counties of Guizhou and highest rates
in Hubei and Shaanxi. Yunnan has managed to incorporate almost 70 percent of
the teachers into the government payroll, while in other provinces the number
of minban (community supported) teachers is as high as 50 percent. Guizhou
and Shaanxi have the highest student per teacher ratios, about 23 students per



- 19 -
teacher in primary schools. Girls' enrollment is lower in Guizhou and Yunnan,
duo to high proportion of minority populations.
2.10      There are no standardized quality measures in China and no
comparative school achievement results; therefore it is not possible at
present to compare quality of education among counties. Observations do
reveal that the availability of trained teachers and equipment in rural
schools is better in poor counties in Shaanxi and Yunnan than in other project
counties. Provincial development plans have been giving education a very high
priority in these two provinces.
C. Proieet Obiegtkyes
2.11      The main objectives of the project are:
(a)  to improve the coverage, efficiency and quality of primary and lower
secondary schools, in order to gradually achieve nine-year
compulsory education. The project will finance school construction
and school rehabilitation, equipment, books and training of teachers
in the poorest counties. These counties will agree to implement and
carefully monitor a policy action plan designed to better identify
and gradually overcome problems of low efficiency and quality.
Sample policy-action plans for primary and lower secondary schools
are in Annex Z, and include, among others, the following actions:
(i) improve access to school by increasing the number of complete
schools, increasing the number of multi-graded classrooms,
providing free textbooks and free tuition to poor children and
expanding the programs by which very poor families are provided
with subsidies to send their children to school;
(ii) improve internal efficiency of rural schools by reducing
repetition rates (especially in first grade) and increasing
promotion from fourth to fifth grade;
(iii) improve resource management in urban schools by increasing
student teacher ratios, increasing the workload of teachers,
(weekly teaching hours); increasing the budget for non-salary
items and preparing estimates of teacher supply and demand for
1990.1998;
(iv)  improve quality and teaching methodologies by effectively using
the new textbooks and by improving the school inputs that are
associated with better quality: library books; percent of
teachers with academic qualifications; equipment and teaching
aids; and
(v) improve the conditions of minban teachers (community financed
teachers).



* 20 -
(b) to assist the process of economic development and restructuring of
higher education, in order to improve efficiency and the utilization
of resources in universities and colleges, the project will provide
support for:
(i) pilot projects in selected universities and colleges in the
six provinces that are attempting to improve efficiency
through internal reorganization, mergers between institutions
or other measures designed to use resources more effectively,
reduce unit costs and increase quality;
(ii) restructuring and rationalization of departments, specialties
or courses, in order to reduce narrow specialization and
provide broader courses that will increase the flexibility of
graduates and be more responsive to changing labor market
needs;
(iii)  systematic evaluation of these pilot projects in order to
identify effective strategies for reallocating staff and
making better use of teachers, bu5ldings, equipment and other
resources in order to improve efficiency and raise quality;
and
(iv) dissemination of lessons from these pilot projects through a
series of seminars or workshops designed to help other
institutions in the participating provinces and other
provinces to improve efficiency, raise quality and provide a
better foundation for the future development and expansion of
higher education in China.
(c) to improve the provincial education planning, financing and
management systems the project will:
(i) develop a management information system (MIS) by:
a. providing counties with the software needed to improve
the analysis of education statistics and to gather data
on education costs and financing in a more systematic
way;
b. training central, provincial and county-level staff in
the use of the MIS;
c. improving the computing and data storage capacity in
selected counties; and
d. developing the software needed to monitor project
activities;
(ii) improve the examination system in order to make use of exam
results for improving education methodologies and classroom
practices;



- 21 -
(iii)  strengthen the capacity of one of the six Education bureaus
to develop a comprehensive proposal of reforms of the Higher
Education system including the capacity to monitor labor
market developments and to redesign the job allocation
system; and
(iv) train provincial and county level staff in project
implementation.
D.  Project Components
Basic Education Component
2.12      The Basic Education Component has two parts:  the first one is the
policy action plans prepared by each county to disseminate among all county
education and finance officials the package of actions that will be
implemented simultaneously to achieve universal basic education. Some of
these actions require additional investment by the education bureaus, and some
require improvements in the allocation of resources, in the motivation of
teachers and parents and in the mlanagement of schools. The second part is the
specific investments to be financed under the project, complementing the
action plans and including investments in construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of school buildings, provision of furniture, equipment, teaching
aids, and tr:Lning of teachers. The two parts of this component complement
each other. Action plans could not be implemented without the investments and
the investments would not make sense if not carefully targeted to the
achievement of specific improvements in access to school and school
efficiency.
Policy Action Plans and Special Studies
2.13      The provincial governments have designed Education Policy Action
Plans for primary and lower secondary education which indicate targets to be
achieved in the project counties in the following five areas: (a) access to
school and completion rates; (b) repetition and drop-out rates (internal
efficiency); (c) student teacher ratios and workloads of teachers (resource
management); (d) textbooks and trained teachers (quality inputs); and (e) the
conditions of minban teachers.  Assurances were obtained that each province
will carry out its Rolicy action plan which will be submitted to the Bank in
the form of a letter supplemental to the Credit Agreement and will provide the
counterpart funds reguired by the counties to implement the Basic Education
Compon ent. The draft letter is in Annex 6 and the action plans with specific
performance indicators are in Annex 7.
2.14      Supervision missions will discuss progress under each indicator,
identify problems in meeting proposed targets and agree with provincial
authorities on remedial actions. This approach has been used successfully in
the Gansu Project (Loan 2812/Credit 1793). In that project provincial
authorities meet regularly to analyze progress in the proposed indicators and
to prepare a written report to present to Bank missions. When problems have



- 22                                            I
been identified, special studies were designed and financed by the project to
better understand the issues involved. Studies designed in Gansu included,
for example, anialysis of drop-out and repetition, comparative costs of diverse
in-service training programs and reasons for shortages of teachers in some
areas. Corrective actions have been designed for the problems identified, and
the provincial authorities have been able to improve the planning methods and
implementation mechanisms for the proposed policies. The policy-action plans
for this proposed project have been designed based on the Gansu experience and
in the hope of achieving similar positive results. In Guizhou Province, a
special study has already been designed to determine the participation rates
of ethnic minority girls, reasons for low participation and measures required
to increase school attendance and school completion, the research will be
carried out in the Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Municipalities. Terms of
reference for other Special Studies will be presented to IDA after the first
annual review of project implementation. Results of the SRecial Studies will
be discussed during the midterm project review to be held no later than June
30, 1995 and it will then be decided if further studies are needed. The
Guizhou Institute of Education Research and the Chinese Expert Panel will
coordinate the preparation of terms of reference, the presentation and
dissemination of results among the different provinces. The cost of the
studies is estimated to be about US$10,000 per province.
Shool Construction.Rehabiitation. Furniture and Maintenance CoMRonent
(US$105 million)
2.15      At present about 10 percent of the school buildings in the project
counties are in dangerous condition and need to be replaced. About 10 percent
are heavily damaged and need major repairs; about 40 percent need minor
repairs and 40 percent are in good condition but need to be better maintained.
The project will finanice about one third of the civil works needed in the
project counties. Priority will be given to: (a) replacement of dangerous
buildings; (b) construction of classrooms in areas where the teaching space is
below the per-student standards; (c) replacement of heavily damaged buildings;
and (d) relocation of schools that are in areas which are not conducive to
regular school attendance. Each county will prepare a construction plan which
will consist of a complete listing of all the schools and the construction
needs: areas in dangerous condition, heavily damaged areas, areas in good
condition and additional teaching areas required to meet standards. Counties
will indicate the four priorities described above in their lists. The lists
will also show costs, local financing sources and Bank financing. The lists
will be approved by provincial authorities and by the Bank. Initial lists for
12 counties (two in each province) have already been prepared and reviewed.
Lists for five other counties will be ready to be reviewed by June 1992, and
lists for all counties will be ready by June 1993. After the lists of schools
is approved by SEdC and the Bank, the County Construction Bureau will prepare
school designs and bidding specifications. Bank supervision missions will
review the documentation before bidding and construction activities start.
The County Construction Bureau will supervise all construction activities with
assistance from the Provincial Construction Department. Specific details
about the construction program are in Annex_a.
I



- 23 -
2.16      Experience with civil works has been positive in previous Bank-
assisted education projects. Provincial construction bureaus are capable of
handling the proposed activities. For this project they have prepared model
plans, bidding documents and contracts which are acceptable to the Bank.
Additionally, the provincial governments have provided assurances that by
December 31 of each year they will provide IDA. for its review and comment,.
Dlan based on criteria acceRtable to IDA, for the school constru,ction on
eha_bilitation that will take place the following year in each one of the
participating counties.
2.17      Furniture will be provided for all schools to be replaced and to all
schools which at present lack desks and chairs. Such furniture will be built
by local artisans and procured by county construction bureaus in parallel with
construction activities. Standard designs are used in most counties and they
have been found to be appropriate.
2.18      Maintenance.  Maintenance of schools is seldom carried out in rural
areas of China. In urban areas it is the responsibility of construction
bureaus and education bureaus. Under the project, funds have been allocated
to carry out preventive maintenance activities for about one fifth of all
schools in the participating counties. A maintenance plan is being prepared
and will be reviewed in a seminar to be held during the first year of project
implementation. It will show maintenance standards, adequate procedures and
minimum levels of financing. The Provinces have provided assurances that they
will pregare by December 31. 1992. the school maintenance plans and carry them
out in accordance with its terms.
EguiRment and Books (US$44 million)
2.19      Equipment.  In China, equipment for schools is classified as
"Standard One" equipment for centrally located large urban schools, "Standard
Two" equipment for the majority of the schools and "Standard Three" equipment
for small rural schools. There are about 6,000 equipment factories that
produce prototypes already approved by SEdC which are included in the standard
lists. About 1,000 research centers produce new samples to be tested and
included in future standard lists. Counties allocate money for equipment
procurement annually and gradually provide schools with the corresponding
standards. The cost of domestically produced equipment is generally low on an
international scale and there are now quality control centers and repair
centers that help industries and SEdC to control quality and improve
maintenance practices. Schools receive most of their equipment from the
county education bureaus for free but they must pay for maintenance and
repairs out of school funds. Equipment lists have been revised to incorporate
changes in the new curriculum and new textbooks.
2.20      The majority of the schools in the project have not received any
equipment in the last 10 years. Because the emphasis has been on building and
repairing schools, poor counties find themselves at a great disadvantage in
terms of school equipment. This fact creates serious discrepancies between
the kind of teaching that takes place in more affluent places and the rote
memory - passive teaching one sees in small village schools where there are no
posters, no maps, and no simple measuring devices or materials to conduct the



- 24 -
simple electricity and optics experiments included in the curriculum. The
project will attempt to decrease these disparities by providing primary
schools with a standard kit that contains basic mathematics, science and
geography materials (basically for linear, square and cubic measures, for
weighing and for understanding simple geometric figures, human body organs and
simple science concepts with emphasis on environmentally related topics). The
project will provide rural secondary schools with simple science kits needed
to perform the physics, chemistry and biology experiments included in the
curriculum. Equipment lists for the project have been prepared by SEdC with
emphasis on the use of low-cost simple materials that will encourage teaching
of science and technology, science applications to daily life activities,
problem solving and the development of analytical scientific skills. Details
on school equipment are in Annex 9.
2.21      Equipment is of little use if the teachers do not have sufficient
knowledge to take advantage of it in the classroom. Improving the
qualifications of science teachers, especially in rural areas, is an immense
task in China. But compared with most other developing countries, China has
considerable advantages and a great potential for success. Key schools with
an acceptable or even high standard in science education exist in most
counties, even in remote rural counties. These key schools will be the basis
in the project for a massive in-service training program. Teachers in key
schools will be asked to be the trainers for other teachers, to organize
science clubs and science fairs. The project will also support several
activities geared towards improving the selection and maintenance of equipment
and the use that teachers can make of it in the classrooms. There will be 30
staff weeks of technical assistance for each province for showing science
teachers how to design and conduct scientific experiments in the classroom,
how to evaluate children's learning of scientific concepts and how to relate
science activities to daily life.  Additionally, there will be 3 to 4 persons
in each province who will participate in international events related to the
improvement and modernization of science teaching in schools. Because
children in Hong Kong achieve the highest scores in the world in science
(according to international comparative assessments); emphasis will be given
to the exchange of information and experiences between Hong Kong and mainland
China. Details are in Annex 10.
2.22      Maintenance of secondary school equipment will be financed by the
project during project implementation. Each province will carry out
maintenance activities once each year in all secondary schools. Provinces
have provided assurances that they will carry out maintenance of the equipment
provided to secondary schools at least once each year. Maintenance will
include provision of spare parts reguired.
2.23      Books.  Books will be provided to all project schools.  The lists of
books includes books for the library as well as sets of textbooks to be
provided free of charge to students who cannot afford them. SEdC prepared
standard lists for the library books and each prov,ince will prepare lists of
textbooks to be provided free of charge. Details on quantities and costs are
in Annex 9.



- 25 -
rraining of Teachers (US$11 million)
2.24      The project will finance:
(a) training of teachers for multi-graded schools;
(b) in-service training of science teachers;
(c) in-service training of bilingual teachers in mir.arity areas; and
(d)  training for young MINBAN teachers who do not have the required
academic qualifications. Details and costs of technical assistance
activities are in Annex 10 and details and costs of local teacher
training programs are in Annex 11.
2.25      The training of teachers for multi-graded schools is a very
important activity in this project because only with well functioning multi-
graded schools will it be possible to achieve universal education in rural
areas of China. Hubei province has had success in the design and
implementation of multi-graded school practices and in training teachers. It
will assist all provinces in the project in preparing and implementing their
training programs. It is expected that about 5,000 teachers will receive
training in running multi-graded classrooms. Additionally, to familiarize
Chinese educators with international experiences with multi-graded teaching,
the project will finance three international seminars to bring together multi-
graded education specialists from the six provinces with specialists from
abroad. Also, four multi-graded teaching specialists from each of the six
provinces will visit multi-graded experiences in other countries (i.e.,
Thailand and Australia). The Hunan Center for Multi-graded Teaching will be
responsible for coordinating all local and international activities to be
financed by the project for improving multi-graded teaching practices.
2.26      Hunan Province will establish a special center for developing multi-
graded teaching practices that are better suited to local conditions. The
project will finance the required materials, staff training and experimental
work.  Detailed costs are in Annex 11.
2.27      Training of bilingual teachers has been successfully carried out in
Guizhou and Yunnan. The project will expand the numbers of teachers trained,
improve the training materials and monitor the activities of bilingual
teachers in the classrooms to see how they are carrying out the new skills and
to understand problems encountered in bilingual classrooms. To facilitate
these activities, Yunnan Province will organize three international seminars
to discuss experiences with bilingual education in Guizhou, Yunnan, Hunan and
neighboring countries: Thailand, Laos and Myanmar. In preparation for these
seminars, Yunnan provincial authorities will organize a study tour for
appropriate staff from Guizhou and Yunnan to study experiences with bilingual
education in neighboring countries. About three persons per province will
participate in these study tours.
2.28      The training of minority area teachers will be carried out in Yunnan
and Guizhou and will be enhanced through three seminars to be organized by



- 26 -
Cuizhou Educational Research and through study tours for four staff members of
the Education Bureaus.
2.29      The trainine of science teachers will be implemented in all
provinces in parallel with the distribution of new equipment and will empha-
size two aspects: better teaching of laboratory and practical science and
improved understanding of environmentally related concepts (para. 2.20). All
secondary school science teachers in the project counties are expected to
benefit from the training to be provided with the assistance of teachers from
the counties key secondary schools. Also, annual workshogs will be financed
under the project for the science trainers. The workshops will be coordinated
by a National Key Institution with foreign experts specialized in multi-
disciplinary approaches to science education and applications of science
concepts to daily life. In preparation for these workshops, a study tour will
be organized to Hong Kong and to UNESCO's specialized science education
centers in Italy and Yugoslavia. About four trainers from each province are
expected to benefit from these study tours.
2.30      In addition to the courses listed above, the project will finance a
olan for, revising the structure of pre-service teacher training in-eac_h
xroject  r2y,ince.  The plan will indicate the numbers of teachers needed in
each county, numbers of teachers being trained in teacher training schools as
well as through other methods of training (i.e. television, in-service and
vocational courses) and actions to be taken by the provincial authorities to
match the demand of and supply of teachers. The plan will require closing of
normal schools no longer needed (due to reduction of the school age
population) and reorganization of other schools training teachers no longer in
demand (i.e. specialized calligraphy teachers and very specialized science
teachers. The plan will be ready by April 1992 and will be discussed with
Bank staff by September 1992. The cost of preparation of this plan has been
estimated to be about US$10,000 per province. Provinces provided assurances
that they will prepare a Rlan by December 31. 1992 to revise the structure of
pre-service teacher training including teacher supoly and demand projections
and actions needed to adjust the susply to the Rrojected demand,
Higher Education Component
Higher Education - Pilot Proiects (US$38.7 million)
2.31      The aim is to assist provincial universities facing problems of
external and internal efficiency to design and implement reforms that will
result in improved resource utilization, higher quality and a better match
with labor market requirements.
2.32      About 40 institutions were invited to present proposals using a
standard format which provided the information required to evaluate six pre-
established criteria. These criteria were developed over a period of about 18
months by a panel of Chinese university teachers working with Bank staff and
international higher education specialists. The panel drew on the experience
of higher education reforms which have already been carried out in Chinese
universities, as well as on the reforms of higher education in Britain and
Australia. The six criteria, explained in detail in Annex 12, are:



- 28 -
(c)  for Hubei Province:  Hubei Institute of Technology, an engineering
institution which came about as a result of a merger of two
colleges: Hubei Light Industry College and Hubel Agriculture
Machinery College. The goals are: (i) to achieve economies of
scale by streamlining the existing specialties; (ii) to improve the
match between course offerings and labor requirementE; (iii) to
expand enrollment to address manpower needs of provincial
industries; and (iv) to raise the quality of instruction. Teaching
loads will be increased by one to two hours per week, student
teacher ratios will be raised from 6:1 to 8:1;
(d)  for Shanxi:  Shanxi Teacher University with 4,500 students will be
merged with Linfer Teachers' College which is located in the same
neighborhood and has similar programs for 600 students. Graduates
of these two schools become lower-secondary school teachers in the
south part of Shanxi Province. The proposal includes, in addition
to the merger, a reduction in the number of specialties so that
teachers who teach in small schools are prepared to teach various
subjects. The quality of instruction and conditions of the school
will also be improved. Classrooms and labs will be used more than
half of the available time, a 20 percent increase, and student staff
ratios will increase from 3:1 to 4:1;
(e)  for Shaanxi Province the Xian Foreign Language Institute formerly
specialized in teaching Russian to students in Northwest China. It
now offers seven foreign languages needed in Xian where tourist
facilities have expanded substantially. The Institute is known to
offer good-quality teaching but requires updating of course
materials, better capacity to develop and print booklets, and
capacity to improve its curriculum design to better meet the needs
of foreign-language specialists required in the province. Student,
teacher ratios will increase from 6:1 to 11:1 and classrooms and
labs will be used at least half of the time; and
(f)  for Yunnan Province:  Yunnan Institute of Technology will reduce the
22 specialties now offered to about 15. It is recognized that over-
specialization results in low utilization of facilities and low
teaching loads of faculty. Also, students who are narrowly
specialized are less flexible and less adaptive to technologically
induced changes and labor market needs. Teaching loads will be
increased from five to seven hours per week and student/staff ratios
will increase from 6:1 to 8:1.
Systematic, Evaluation of Pilot Projects (US$0.3 million)
2.36      The pilot projects will be evaluated systematically to identify
effective ways of reallocating staff and making better use of teachers,
buildings, equipment, and other resources in order to find strategies that can
be recommended for a more comprehensive Higher Education Reform.
2.37      Each university will prepare an annual orogress resort following a
standard format prepared for this purpose. The reports will be studied and



- 27 -
(a) objectives are appropriate to improve efficiency of the institution;
(b) the proposal is feasible;
(c) expected benefits are significant and the proposed project will
improve internal and external efficiency and raise quality;
(d) costs are realistic and can be financed;
(e) the relation between expected benefits and costs is favorable; and
(f) the project will provide useful lessons for other institutions and
provinces.
2.33      Provinces made an initial selection of the proposals by the
universities and selected 11 out of 45 proposals evaluated by the panel. The
panel gave each proposal a quantitative score for each criteria. Based on
these scores the panel selected six proposals that it considered are ready to
be implemented and are judged to have a high feasibility of success. Another
five proposals would require revisions and reassessment before being selected.
2.34      The proposals presented by the provinces follow a standard format.
It includes details on the objectives and expected benefits and costs, as well
as student numbers now and in future, staffing, unit costs, utilization rates
of laboratories, and proposed expenditures to carry out the proposed
activities. Annex 13 describes the project institutions and details the
efficiency targets proposed for each institution.
2.35      The following is a brief summary of the objectives of the proposals
already approved by the review panel:>-/
(a) in Guizhou Province the Institute of Technology has 26 specialties
for 3,500 students, with low utilization of equipment, low teaching
loads of staff and narrowly specialized graduates that are no longer
needed by industries where they will find jobs. The proposal is to
streamline the specialties, reducing them from 26 to 20, broadening
the content presentlv being taught and raising instructional
quality. Student/staff ratios will increase from 1:5 to 1:10 and
teacher loads will increase from four to six hours per week;
(b) for Hunan Province: Jishou University, located in an ethnic
minovity area (West Hunan Miao Nationality). The proposal is to:
(i) reorganize the specialties being offered at present to improve
internal efficiency as well as to be better matched with labor
requirements; and (ii) improve the quality of teaching. Student
teacher ratios will increase from 7:1 to 11:1, classroom and
laboratories will be used at least half time;
.~/ Specific targets are shown in Annex 13. Specific costs are in the cost
tables.



- 29 -
summarized by a national-level research institute (possibly the Institute of
Higher Education at Beijing University, which was involved in preparing the
proposals) with assistance from a foreign institution with experience in
evaluating higher education reforms. An analytical summary report indicating
problems, possible solutions and recommendations will be presented to SEdC,
provincial authorities and Bank supervision-missions.
2.38      Each province will sign a research contract with a key university in
China and with a foreign education institution for assistance to be provided
in monitoring the reform. The cost of the evaluation has been estimated at
US$60,000 per year.
2.39      A final reoort summarizing the experience and lessons learned will
be prepared by the provinces and again summarized by the Key University
selected for this purpose. This report will be analyzed in a one-week seminar
with the presidents of the universities and staff of the provincial higher
education bureaus during 1996. Results of the seminar will be published and
disseminated to all higher education institutions in the six provinces and to
all provincial higher education bureaus in China.
Dissemination of Lessons (US$0.2 million)
2.40      Seminars and workshops will be conducted at least once a year to
analyze the progress renorts from the participating institutions and to share
experiences with the implementation of the reforms. Each province will take
lead in organizing one seminar and one workshop during the life of the
project. The first seminar will be conducted in Shaanxi and participants will
select the organizers for the next seminar. Topics to be considered include:
lessons learned in implementing previous Bank Projects in Higher education,
university fiscal management, laboratory management and university library
management. One internatiotially recruited consultant and two Chinese
consultants will assist in these seminars. Details are discussed in Annex 10.
2.41      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Central
Government that it will disseminate the experiences and the lessons learned in
implementing the reforms of participating hither education institutions.
including entering into arrangements with a national research institution or
university, with qualifications acceptable to IDA, to participate in
evaluating lessons and experiences.
Planning of Future Higher Education Reforms (US$0.7 million)
2.42      A Comprehensive Program of Reform of the Higher Education System
will be developed in one of the six provinces to strengthen the provincial
capacity to develop higher education reform plans, and to serve as a model to
other provinces. The State Education Commission will select one of the six
provinces to implement the activities described below. About ten universities
will be provided with funds to prepare reform programs and to obtain
assistance for their review and discussion. By the mid-term review the
selected Province will have a comprehensive Provincial Reform Plan and
institutional plans for specific reforms to be undertaken in at least 10
institutions.



30 -
2.43      Additionally, and to complement the planning effort, the Province
will:
(a) organize a study tour to Australia for university managers;
(b)  undertake a special study to carry out labor market surveys that may
benefit the higher education planning process;
(c) send two staff members to be trained in preparing higher education
master plans;
(d) contract a Chinese institute of higher education research to train
planning staff in the Higher Education Bureaus and in university
planning offices in survey techniques, in different evaluation
methods and in statistical analysis and data gathering procedures;
and
(e) carry out a study to investigate auality indicators in higher
educatio . The study will recommend appropriate indicators to be
used in China to evaluate in an international context the quality of
the higher education institutions.
2.44      During negotiations the Government gave assurances that by December
31. 1992. it would select the Province that would develop a Comprehensive
Proposal to Reform the Higher Education system. inform IDA of such selection.
and by the mid-term review, assist the selected province to develop the reform
pRoposal under terms satisfactory to the association.
Planning. Financing and Management Systems Component
Management Information System (US$2.8 million)
2.45      Softwarge Development.  With SEdC's assistance, the Education Bureau
of Shanghai has developed the software required to collect the information
needed to plan and manage education systems at provincial/municipal level.
The software developed includes four modules: one on teachers, one on student
enrollments, one on school infrastructure and one on finances. The software
is used in the 12 districts of Shanghai to plan the teacher requirements,
infrastructure needs and necessary changes needed in resource allocation. It
is also aggregated at the city level to identify problems and propose changes
in policies and standards. Several new policies have been adopted as a result
of the analysis of the data collected: policies to increase classroom sizes
in order to achieve better use of staff, policies to reorient the pre-service
training of teachers and policies to adopt more cost-efficient school size
norms.
2.46      Under the project, an institution with qualifications acceptable to
IDA will be contracted to develop a simplified version of the Shanghai
software and to train provincial and county staff. By the third year of the
project all six provinces will start using a simplified version of the four
modules. Forms will be revised after the first year of experimentation. The
project will finance: (a) the technical assistance for development of the



- 31 -
simplified software; and (b) externally recruited technical assistance to
advise on hardware requirements and preparation of specifications.  During
negotlations the provinces gave assurances that theY will make arrangements
satisfactQry to IDA to retain a qualified institution to develop the software
and to provide training.
2.47      Training.  Staff in the counties will be trained in the use of
computers for data storage and retrieval. A contract will be signed by the
individual provinces with a qualified institution for assistance in setting up
the MIS in the project counties and for training of staff (about two
consultants for two months per year for two initial years of the project).
2.48      Provinces will send two to three planners to examine how a MIS is
used in Thailand, Hong Kong, Australia and Korea for planning education
systems. Details are presented in Annex 15.
2.49      Equipment.  Once the county staff are trained and have demonstrated
their ability to use the software, to analyze the results of the data
collected and to design policies aimed at correcting problems identified
through the analysis of the statistics, the project will finance procurement
of simple personal computers for the County Education Bureaus.
2.50      By the end of the project all counties will have in place the forms
needed to collect the data for the four modules at the school level, the staff
to input this data into the computer, and the staff to produce long-term plans
and analytical reports. At least one long-term plan and three analytical
reports will have been produced in each county before project completion.
Special Studies (US$0.6 million)
2.51      Special Studies will be carried out in each participating province
to analyze socio-economic factors associated with repetition and drop-out,
qualifications of minban teachaers and girls' attendance to schools. Details
in Annex 10.
Improving the Examination System-Student Assessment (US$0.6 million)
2.52      China participated in the Second International Assessment of
Education Progress coordinated by the Educational Testing Service (ETS).
Examinations were carried out in 1991. Results include comparisons of the
mathematics and science skills of a sample of 9 and 13 year-old Chinese
students and their counterparts in 20 other countries. Chinese students
obtained the highest scores in mathematics. In the process of coordinating
the assessment, the staff of the Central Institute of Education Research in
Beijing received training from ETS in sampling, question design and
validation, and procedures for testing the children, correcting the
examinations, and summarizing and interpreting the data. However, provincial
authorities have had little opportunity to benefit from this experience, and
there is little knowledge about standardized testing at the provincial level.
The project will finance a four-year contract with the Central Institute of
Education Research to: (a) train provincial evaluation experts; (b) advise on
the design and application of tests; (c) assist in the analysis of results;
and (d) prepare a long-term plan to measure education achievement in the
project provinces (260,000 Yuans per province).



32 -
2.53      The project will also finance four seminars, one A year, to
disseminate the results of the examinations among school principals and to
jointly design procedures for raising the achievement scores. Finally, the
project will finance dissemination of the results among teachers, through
newsletters and radio programs.
2.54      To complement these efforts, the project will finance a study tour
of provincial authorities to observe prestigious examination systems in other
countries. Possibilities include Britain, United States, and Germany, where
academic achievement testing has been developed and is used for monitoring
progress in schools. The project will also finance training abroad of three
persons from each of the six provinces in student assessment techniques.
Staff Training in Proiect Implementation (US$0.7 million)
2.55      Workshops will be organized to train county officials in:
(a) project administration; (b) bidding and procurement practices; (c)
accounting procedures; and (d) construction management. Three seminars will
be organized for each topic in each province. SEdC will prepare training
plans with the assistance of international experts and will assist provinces
in the organization of the workshops.
"roJect Monitoring and Evaluation Panel (US$0.1 million)
2.56        A Chinese panel of experts will be organized and financed under
the project and will be responsible for reviewing implementation, identifying
and selecting the consultants and consulting agencies for the Technical
Assistance component of the pro ect, monitoring project implementation,
reviewing criteria for fellowships and study tours and assisting in
dissemination of findings for special studies. The Panel will have a
representative from each province, appointed by the Provincial Vice-Governor
responsibfe for Education, and a representative from SEdC with experience in
project implementation. The project will finance site visits to project
institutions and meetings to review project implementation. Terms of
reference for the Panel are in Annex 10.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FIN4ANCING
A. Project Costs
3.1       Total project costs are estimated at about US$205 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of about US$40 million
equivalent, or about 20 percent of the project costs. No import duties or
taxes will be payable on goods or services imported for the project. Project
costs are summarized by component in Table 3.1 and by account category in
Table 3.2. Details are shown in Annex 14.
3.2       Unit Costs.  Civil works costs are based on the construction of
similar schools during 1991. Costs for equipment, books and materials are
based on contracts for similar items awarded recently. Technical assistance
costs for internationally recruited experts include costs of salaries,



- 33
allowances and airfares.  Fellowships abroad for short term study trips are
estimated at US$5,000 per month or US$20,000 per year.  Details for school
equipment costs are in Anex 9, Details for teacher training costs are in
Arnex II. Details for technical assistance costs are in Anngx iQ.
3.3       The foreign exchange component has been estimated as follows: civil
works and furniture: 11 percent; instructional equipment for higher education
and MIS; 80 percent; instructional equipment for schools: 20 percent; books
and teaching materials: 20 percent; overseas training and specialists: 90
percent; local training 10 percent; building maintenance: 11% and distribution
of books and equipment: 40%.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary by Component
Local Foreign    Total   LocaI Foreign  Total Base Foreipn
---- Yuan million-------  US$ million ------    2    X
Basic Education     591.1  102.6    693.7  111.2  18.9    130.1  78  15
Higher Education    103.1  74.1    177.2   19.4  13.8    33.2  20  42
Plaming end Management    8.4  7.6  16.0    1.6  1.4      3.0  2   47
Total Baseline Costs    702.6  184.3    886.9  132.2  34.1    166.3 100  2Q
Physical Contingencies    52.4  i4.4  66.8    9.8  2.7    12.6  7   22
Price Contingencies  122.7  16.1    138.8   22.6  3.5    26.0  16  13
Total Proiect Costs  877.7 214.8   1J92.5  164.6  40.3    204*9 123  20
3.4       Contingency allowances have been estimated as follows:  physical
contingencies are estimated at eight percent of the base cost of civil works,
books, equipment and furniture and at 10 percent for studies, training and
research. No physical contingencies were added for local teacher training
programs. Price contingencies are calculated on the basis of expected
international price increases: 1.8 percent for 1992, 1.9 percent for 1993,
3.9 percent for 1994, 4.9 percent for 1995, 4.2 percent for 1996 and 3.6
percent for 1997. Domestic price increases are estimated to be 6.0 percent
for 1992 and 50 percent per year for 1993 to 1997. Accordingly, aggregate
price increases are estimated at about 15.6 percent of baseline costs plus
physical contingencies of 7.4 percent.
B. Financing Plan
3.5       IDA will finance US$130.0 million, the provinces US$37.1 million and
local municipalities and counties US$37.8 million. The credit will cover all
of the foreign exchange requirements and 55 percent of local costs. The
project financing plan is given in Table 3.3. The provincial government's
debt service obligation for the credit will be less than one percent of their
total revenues. This burden is deemed reasonable. For the counties,
especially poor counties, debt burdens can be very significant. Provincial
governments have guaranteed that they will provide resources required by
counties that cannot meet their own needs.



- 34 -
3.6      At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Borrower will
make the proceeds of the Credit available to the pgovinces on terms and
conditions acceRtabie to IDA.
Table 3.2: Project Cost by Summary Account
_ g  _             _    _ 
Aloc   Porein   Total  Local  Porsian   Total  fl£
Yuan million ------   ------ US$ million -------  X
A. Civil works                     432     55      487    81    10         91   55
D. Furniture                       40       5       45      7      1        8     5
C. Equipment Basic Education        95     24      119    18       4       22   13
D. Equipment Higher Education       13     55      68       3     10       13     a
E. Equipment MIS                    0       2       2       0      1        1     0
P. Books                           40      10      50       8      2       10     6
G. Teoaher Training                47       5       52      9      1       10     6
H. University Staff Training        4       4       8       1      1        2     1
I. Studies, Training and Research  12      12      24      2       2        4     3
J. Distribution Books               17     11      28       3      2        5     3
K. Furniture & Maintenance          3       1        4      1      0        1     0
Total Baseline Costs            703     184     887    133    34       167   100
Physieal Contingencies       52      14      66    10        3       12     7
Price Contingencies         123      16      139    22       3       26   15
Total Project Costs             878     214   1.092    165    40       2     in
3.7       Recurrent Cost Implications.  The recurrent cost implications of the
project have been estimated vunder different scenarios.  If provinces manage to
reallocate teaching positiorns from urban to rural areas, the recurr3nt cost
implications for the province will be very small because the salaries of these
teachers are in the provincial budget. With the present ratio of one teacher
for every 20 students, it is estimated that no additional teaching positions
will be required. If positions are not transferred, but instaad, new teaching
positions are created at the counity level for all new classrooms to be built,
the recurrent cost implications will not be very high. On average 15 new
primary school classrooms and 50 new secondary school classrooms will be built
in each county, requiring about 130 new teachers. The cost of 130 teachers is
about 200,000 Yuans per year, which is less than one percent of the average
county education expenditures.
3.8       Sustainability and Affordability.  Under the present financial
circumstances in China, it is difficult to present a set of indicators that
would ensure availability of financial resources to sustain the levels of
investment required to carry out the proposed education reforms in very poor
counties. County, municipal and township finances have been restructured
recently and there is no record of performance under present finance laws.
However, in addition to government assurances that education will continue to
have a high priority and that expenditures for education will continue to
grow, there are several positive indications of program sustainability:
(a) population growth is expected to continue to be small, and the school
population will not grow more than two to three percent in the coming decade;



- 35 -
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
Local     Foreign     Total
--- US$ million -
Municipal and county governments      37.8         0         37.8
Provincial governments                37.1         0         37.1
IDA                                   89.7       40.3       130.0
Total                            164.6       40.3       204.2
(b) Provinces involved will most likely continue to have a rate of economic
growth of four to five percent in the coming years; and (c) if the current
allocation of 10 percent of the total budget is earmarked for education, China
will be able to provide the required resources to school all children.W/
3.9       Whether or not provincial transfers are sufficient to cover all
required social expenses is not clear. Provincial governments have guaranteed
that fcr this project, and for all the counties selected, they will provide
the required counterpart funds and will allocate the teachers that are needed.
The cost of maintaining this level of effort after the project, so that
counties continue to upgrade their education system, will be better understood
during project implementation. Studies and monitoring indicators as well as
supervision missions will be geared toward better understanding of these
needs. Counterpart fund requirements are detailed in. Annex 15.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.1       A Project Office exists in each of the six provinces and in the past
has been involved with implementation of project activities for the University
Projects financed by the Bank. These Offices will be strengthened under the
project to include: a construction specialist who will oversee the construc-
tion activities of the project, two equipment procurement specialists, an
accounting specialist and a group of five to six education specialists who
will monitor the implementation of the action plans and will prepare project
supervision and accounting reports. Each provincial Project Unit has a
director who reports directly to the Provincial Education Director and who
will be responsible for day-to-day project coordination and administration
(Annex 16).
£/   See China. Provincial Education Planning and Finance Sector Study.
Chapter 4. Projections of expenditures.



- 36 -
4.2       The implementation of the higher education reforms will be carried
out by each institution, in coordination with the Higher Education Department
of the Provincial Education Bureau. The provincial Project Unit will assist
in the procurement of required equipment, and in preparation and translation
of reform implementation reviews, as well as in keeping accounts and disburs-
ing funds according to agreed plans.
4.3       The implementation of the Management Improvement Component will be
the responsibility of the Planning Unit in the Provincial Education Bureau.
The Project Unit will assist them with equipment procurement and coordination
of technical assistance activities.
4.4       At the county level, there will be a Project Implementation Leading
Group responsible for coordinating the implementation of the action plan, with
the County Construction Bureau activities and for procuring equipment,
furniture and teacher training services. Each county will prepare an annual
implementation program, following a model provided by the preparation mission.
This plan will be used to estimate required funding for the year and to
evaluate project activities.
4.5       In view of the unfamiliarity of the county agencies with the Bank
Group's procurement and accounting procedures, and the diverse nature of
activities envisaged, SEdC, with the assistance of project implementation
consultants, will hold three seminars in each province during the first year
of the project. These seminars will focus on:
(a) bidding procedures and draw up bidding documents satisfactory to the
Bank;
(b) technical specifications for construction and repair activities;
(c) technical specifications for equipment and materials;
(d) tender and bid evaluation procedures;
(e) construction management procedures and quality control criteria;
(f) equipment distribution mechanisms;
(g) standardized accounting forms; and
(h) solutions to problems encountered during implementation.
4.6       Project Monitoring and Supervision.  SEdC will coordinate project
monitoring activities and provide support to provincial Project Units in the
systematic collection and analysis of data. Each county will prepare project
progress reports, and each province will consolidate these reports and provide
them to SEdC twice a year. SEdC will prepare a summary report with main
achievements and issues to be discussed with Bank supervision missions.
Formats for collecting data at county level have been prepared and will be
used in training of county level officials. A supervision plan is in Anngx
12.



- 37 -
B. Procurement
4.7       Qrganization of Procurement Activities.  The items to be procured
under the project are: civil works for construction and repair of schools,
school furniture, school equipment, teaching materials and books, technical
assistance and training. Procurement will be organized at three levels:
(a) county Construction Bureaus will be responsible for procuring school
construc%ion and furniture for primary and lower secondary schools.
There will be 114 county construction bureaus in the project under-
taking this task. They will coordinate activities with the County
Education Bureaus and will be supervised by the Provincial Construc-
tion Bureaus. Officials in 12 counties have already been trained
and have developed their specific bidding documents, based on
standard models provided by MOF. Copies of Standard Bidding Docu-
ments have been distributed to all 114 counties and training will be
organized during the first semester of 1992 for all procurement
officials;
(b) the six Project Offices in the six Provincial Education Bureaus of
the participating provinces will be responsible for procurement of:
(i) primary and secondary school equipment, materials and books;
(ii) teacher training; and (iii) technical assistance. Equipment
lists have already been prepared and reviewed by the Bank. Also,
procurement specialist in the province have copies of Standard
Procurement Documents and will receive further training in January
and June 1992, before the project becomes effective. Procurement of
Technical Assistance to be carried out at the provincial level will
be facilitated by the Chinese Panel of Experts;-and
(c) the International Tendering Corporation and the Foreign Investment
Loan Office of the SEdC will procure the equipment packages through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). These equipment packages
will include equipment needed by universities, computers for the MIS
system and computer packages for secondary school science kits.
4.8         gil works include new construction, major and minor repairs of
school buildings. Most of the schools are in small villages or dispersed
rural areas and therefore it is unlikely that foreign contractors will be
interested in participating. New construction, and major repairs costing
$40,000 or more will be awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) under
procedures and forms of contract acceptable to the Bank. Minor repairs and
works expected to cost less than US$40,000, up to an aggregate of US$24.0
million (US$4.0 million per province) may be carried out through force
account. Procurement will be coordinated by County Construction Bureaus and
supervised by the Provincial Construction Bureau.
4.9       Fui&ure for primary and secondary schools will be procured by
county construction bureaus on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding. When
schools are remote and transportation.is difficult, furniture manufacturing
will be contracted by direct contracting with local carpenters. LCB contracts



- 38 -
are estimated to cost US$7.9 million and direct contracting no more than
US$1.8 million (US$300,000 per province).
4.10      Equipment. Books and Materials contracts above US$200,000, computers
and audiovisual equipment for universities will be awarded through ICB by the
International Tendering Corporation. Domestic Bidders competing under ICB
would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the prevailing
rate of customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Equipment and
materials contracts below US$200,000 for primary and secondary schools and all
books contracts will be awarded through Local Competitive Bidding by each of
the six participating provinces and may not exceed or aggregate amount of
US$31.5 million. Equipment and materiais contracts with an estimated value of
less than US$20,000 and an aggregate amount equivalent to US$8.4 million for
the project (US$1.4 million per province) will be awarded after solicitation
and evaluation of at least three written price quotations from eligible
suppliers. Distribution and maintenance services will be procured under local
shopping procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$5.9 million.
4.11      Teacher Training will be contracted by County Education Bureaus with
Teacher Training Institutions. Studies. and Domestic and International
Consultants will be selected by the provinces with assistance from the Project
Technical Panel, and following guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers dated August 1981. Details on staff months and costs are in
An=e 10.
4.12      Prior review by the Bank will be required for: (a) all technical
assistance, studies and research contracts; (b) the first civil works contract
signed for primary schools and for secondary schools in each province; and
(c) all equipment contracts valued above US$200,000. LCB procurement for
equipment is expected to take place through one major exercise in each
province with six to eight packages (one per subject). About 12 equipment
contracts will be subject to prior review, covering 50 percent of total
equipment costs. IDA will also review and approve all equipment lists. In
addition, IDA will review annual provincial procurement plans and may select
certain civil works for prior review of contracts.



- 39 -
Tbl 4.1:  Procurement Arrangements a
ProcuareMent Method
ICB    LCB    Other,&  NIF  Total
----  US$ million ----------
Civil Works-
Primary schools                                     64.5    18.0           82.5
(45.7)  (12.0)         (57.7)
Secondary schools                                    6.4     6.0           12.4
(2.6)   (2.4)          (5.0)
University                                                         19.0    19.0
(0.0)   (0.0)
Furniture
Primary schools                                      5.4      1.8            7.2
(3.9)   (1.2)          (5.1)
Secondary schools                                    2.5                    2.5
(1.0)                  (1.0)
EouiRment and Books
Primary                                             27.6                   27.6
(21.9)                 (21.9)
Secondary                                           11.1                   11.1
(9.0)                  (9.0)
University and MIS                          8.6      1.8      8.4          18.8
(8.0)   (1.4)   (7.8)         (17.2)
Distribution and maintenance                                  5.9            5.9
(0.4)         (0.4)
Teacher Training                                               10.8           10.8
(5.5)         (5.5)
Technical Assistance. Studies. Research                         7.2            7.2
and Staff Training                                             (7.2)          (7.2)
Total                                     8_6   119.3    58.1  19.0   205.0
(IDA financed)                           (8.0)  (85.5)  (36.5) (0.0) (130.0)
N.I.F. - Non-IDA Financed.
/A  Amounts in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
jk  Other includes:  force account for civil, local shopping for equipment,
and direct contracting for furniture for rural schools, for distribution
of books to schools and for equipment maintenance.
C. Accounts and Audits
4.13      Proiect Accounts.  To facilitate disbursements under the project, a
Special Account in US dollars will be established and maintained in the
Ministry of Finance. The authorized allocation of the Special Account is



- 40 -
US$ 7.2 million. Additionally, MOF will open, or cause to be opened and
maintained, six separate revolving funds, one in each of the six provinces,
for financing local expenditures under the project. Each Revolving Fund will
be opened with about US$800,000 which is the amount required to finance three
months of project activities. Replenishment will be made monthly. MOF will
have the Special Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would
open the six revolving funds. make the initial deposit from its own resources
and replenish the account every month to maintain a balance equivalent to the
initial deposit.
4.14      Project accounts will be maintaiped separately in each county and
each higher education institution participating in the project. They will
initiate activities with funds provided by the county or provincial government
and will be replenished for eligible expenditures from the provincial
revolving funds.
4.15      Audits and Renorting.  Accounts and the documentation to support the
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) will be maintained by Provinces by the County
Project Units and by higher education institutions and will be available for
review by SEdC, provincial auditors and Bank missions. They will be audited
by county audit bureaus, and audit reports will be provided each year to the
provincial project unit.
4.16      It is expected that provincial revolving funds as well as
documentation to support disbursements to county accounts will be audited by
Provincial Audit Bureaus and by the State Audit Administration. During
negotiations. assurances were obtained that the annual audit reports prepared
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be submitted to the
Association every year within eight months of the end of the fiscal year.
4.17      Progress reports will be prepared by each province every six months.
SEdC will consolidate these reports and submit them to the Bank once every
year. Additionally, it will organize a mid-term review and within six months
of project closing will produce a Project Completion Report. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that the borrower will participate in a
mid-term review of the progress of carrying out the project. not later than
June 30. 1995.
D. Disbursements
4.18      The Credit will be disbursed in six years between 1992 and 1998.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of the table shown below (Table 4.2).
Expenditures will be fully documented except for: (a) training programs; and
(b) contracts for works and goods valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent
which will be reimbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
The provincial project units will be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications. The Ministry of Finance in Beijing will review the applications
and submit them to the Bank. County project units and higher education
institutions will prepare withdrawal applications for submission to the
Provincial Project Unit.



- 41 -
lg&ka 4.2:  Disbursements
IDA Allocation   Percentage of
Expenditures to be
financed.
Civil Works and Furniture - Primary           56.0         70%
* Secondary        4.0         40%
Equipment Materials and Books                 40.0         100% of the c.i.f.
cost of imported
equipment, books,
100% of ex-factory
costs of locally
manufactured items;
75% of local expendi-
tures for items
procured locally
Consultant Services, Studies
and Overseas training                          7.0         100%
Training of Teachers                           5.0         50%
Unallocated                                   18.0
Total                                        130.O
4.19      Completion and Closing.  The proposed project is expected to become
effective in June 1992, and it would be implemented over a six-year period,
plus six months for the completion of payments and full withdrawal of credit
proceeds. The project is thus expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, with
a Closing Date of December 31, 1998. A project completion report will be
submitted by each province to SEdC and forwarded to IDA within six months of
the Closing Date.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
kanefits
5.1       The immediate beneficiaries of the project will be the children in
rural areas and small villages who will bs able to complete their basic
education. Increased completion rates will, in turn, lead to higher literacy
levels. In the longer term, improved literacy will contribute to increased
receptivity to further training, and to a more productive work life. Given



- 42 -
the vital long term link between literacy and social and economic development,
the Chinese population in general will benefit from the increased school
participation rates in currently underserved areas.
5.2       Pilot reforms in higher education will have two main benefits:
(a) improved use of existing resources, allowing universities to improve
quality-related inputs, and in turn, lead to better qualified university
graduates; and (b) increased external efficiency, i.e., professionals from
reformed universities will be better preparsd for a more dynamic labor market
requiring more flexible graduates. Additionally, as a result of the project
all provinces will have improved their capacity to plan and manage reforms of
Higher Education Institutions.
5.3       Additional benefits are the participation of women and Roverlv
XgdUcti2n. Women play an important role in agriculture, industry and related
activities in China. But literacy rates have traditionally been lower for
rural women than for rural men because fewer women complete primary school.
The project will place special emphasis on increasing girls participation and
completion rates, in both primary and lower secondary schools. Attention will
be paid to collecting and reporting statistics on women's participation
systematically. This data is currently not available. Also, multi-graded
schools supported by the project will make it easier for girls to stay in
school because they will no longer be required to go to boarding schools which
are far away from their homes. In the few cases where boarding is the only
viable solution for providing girls with a lower secondary school education,
the project will pay attention to the boarding conditions, to making sure
there are female teachers in the boarding schools. All monitoring reports on
the project will mention progress in educating women and, if needed, special
studies will be conducted to better understand and resolve issues that arise
during project implementation, and that require bqtter understanding of the
social and economic conditions of women.
5.4       Poverty Reduction.  Provinces are expected to allocate a greater
proportion of the provincial budget to the poor counties which will be
implementing the project. Counties will also allocate a greater proportion of
their budgets to poor rural villages that otherwise cannot build, repair or
equip schools. These flows of funds, which are not taking place under present
financial arrangements in China, will increase the per person expenditure in
education in all of the poor counties included in the project. Increased
investment in education is needed in these areas to increase completion of
school, literacy rates and the quality of schooling. In the longer term,
better and more education should result in higher income levels and improved
and sustained productivity in poor areas.
Risks
5.5       The project faces two main risks.  First, difficulties in managing
the project may arise, given the lack of experience in dealing with Bank
projects in the provincial and county level education bureaus. The risk can
be mitigated by means of staff training and with careful supervision, two
elements that have been incorporated in project design. The second risk
arises because the financial mechanisms in townships, villages and remote



- 43
rural areas of China have been in a state of flux during recent years, and
there are no parameters to estimate how the new regulations will affect the
amounts of resources available for education. To mitigate the risk, provinces
have committed themselves to providing all the counterpart funds required for
the project if counties fail to come up with their contributions. Also, the
proposed improvements of the mechanism for monitoring the availability of
counterpart funds and the commitment of the central government to take
appropriate action when necessary, will help in reducing possible problems.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       The Government will provide IDA with a letter supplemental to the
credit Agreement committing the provincial governments to carry out the
actions indicated in the policy-action plans and to provide the counterpart
funds required by the counties to implement the Basic Education Component of
the Project (para. 2.13).
6.2       The Provinces have provided assurances that:
(a) by December 31 of each year provinces will provide IDA with the
construction plan to be carried out the following year (para. 2.16);
(b) provinces will prepare school maintenance plan by December 31, 1992,
to be carried out in accordance with their terms (para. 2.18);
(c) provinces will carry out maintenance of equipment provided to
secondary schools, at least once a year. Maintenance will include
provision of spare parts required; (para. 2.22);
(d) by December 31, 1992 provinces will prepare a plan to revise the
structure of pre-service teacher training in project provinces
including carrying out teacher supply and demand projections and
detailing actions required to adjust the supply to the projected
demand (para. 2.30).
(e) enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association, with a
Chinese Institution to develop the software for the MIS and provide
training (para. 2.46).
6.3       The Central Government provided assurances that:
(a) it will disseminate the experiences and the lessons learned in
implementing the reform of participating higher education
institutions including entering into arrangements with a national
research institute or university, with qualifications acoeptable to
IDA, to participate in disseminating lessons and experiences (para.
2.41);
(b) select a Project Province that would develop a Comprehensive
Proposal to Reform the Higher Education System and inform IDA of
such selection by December 31, 1992; and, assist the selected
province to develop the reform proposal under terms satisfactory to
the association by the mid-term review (para. 2.44);



- 44 -
(c) it will make the proceeds of the credit available to the provinces
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 3.6);
(d) it will, by May 31, 1992, open and maintain, or cause to be opened
and maintained, six separate revolving funds, one for the benefit of
each Project Province, for purposes of financing local expenditures
under the Project, including making on which deposit from the
Borrower's own funds into each revolving fund of an amount
equivalent to three months expenditures under the project and
replenish the accounts every month to maintain a balance equivalent
to the initial deposit (para. 4.13);
(e) it will submit to IDA annual audit reports prepared by independent
auditors (para. 4.16); and
(f) it will participate in a mid-term review of the progress of carrying
out the Project by no later than June 30, 1995 (para. 4.17);
6.4       Recommendation.  On the basis of the above assurances, the proposed
Educatidn Development in Poor Provinces Project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 93.2 million (US$130.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
The ComRulsory Education Law
Text of "The compulsory education law of the People's Republic of China
(approved by the fourth session of the sixth NPC on 12th April 1986)":
Article 1: This law has been drawn up on the basis of the
Constitution and the reality in China in order to develop primary
education and to promote the material and spiritual building of
socialism.
Article 2:  The state institutes a nine-year compulsory educational
system. Each province, autonomous region, or municipality should
decide on the steps to make the compulsory education universal in
accordance with the conditions of local economic and cultural
development.
Article 3: In introducing compulsory education, it is necessary to
adhere to the state principles concerning education and strive to
improve the quality of education in order to enable children and
youngsters to develop in an all around manner, morally,
intellectually and physically, and to lay the foundation for
training talented builders of socialism with ideals, morality,
general knowledge and discipline, thereby improving the quality of
the whole nation.
Article 4: The state, community, school and family should ensure
the right of school-age children and young people to attend school
in accordance with the law.
Article 5: Children who have reached the age of six should,
regardless of sex, nationality and race, attend school for the
prescribed period of years. In places where conditions do not
permit, compulsory education may be postponed until children have
reached the age of seven.
Article 6: Schools should popularize and use Putonghua, which is
commonly used throughout the country.
Schools that enroll mainly minority nationalities may use the spoken and
written languages that are popular among minority nationalities.
Article 7: Compulsory education may be divided into two stages,
elementary school education and junior middle school education.
Work to popularize the latter should be started after the former
becomes universal. The school system of both stages shall be worked
out by State Council departments in charge of education.



- 46
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
Article 8: The undertaking of compulsory education is to be carried
out and supervised by local government at different levels under the
leadership of the State Council.
State Council departments in charge of education should consider the
needs of the socialist modernization program and the condition of
physical and mental development of children and young people in working
out the teaching program, its contents and curricula, and in examining
the textbooks for compulsory education.
Article 9: Local people's governments at various levels should set
up elementary schools and junior middle schools at convenient
locations so that children and youngsters can attend schools that
are nearby.
Local people's governments at various levels should set up special
schools (classes) for the blind, deaf and mute, and mentally retarded
children and young people.
The state shall encourage enterprises, institutions and other quarters of
the community to set up various types of schools prescribed in this law,
in accordance with basic government requirements and under the unified
supervision of local people's governments.
Urban and rural construction and development plans must include
appropriate facilities for compulsory education.
Article 10: The state shall exempt from payment the tuition of
students in compulsory education.
Article 11: Parents or guardians must ensure that their school-age
children or wards attend school on schedule for the prescribed
period of years.
Parents or guardians of school-age children and youngsters, who need to
postpone or be exempted from attending school because of illness or other
special reasons, should obtain the approval from local people's
governments,
Organizations and individuals are forbidden to employ school-age children
and young people.
Article 12: The State Council and local people's governments at
various levels shall be responsible for raising funds for operating
expenses and capital construction of compulsory education.
The growth rate of the state financial appropriations for compulsory
education should be higher than those of the regular financial revenues,
and the average expenses per student enrolled in school should be
increased gradually.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
Local people's governments at various levels should, in accordance with
the State Council regulations, levy an extra tax for education in cities
and towns to be used mainly for introducing compulsory education.
The state shall subsidize economically undeveloped areas so that they may
introduce compulsory education.
The state shall encourage various social organizations and individuals to
donate funds to schools.
The state shall assist areas inhabited by minority nationalities which
have qualified teachers and financial resources to introduce compulsory
education.
Article 13: The state will take measures to improve and develop
normal education, accelerating the training of qualified teachers
and ensuring systematically that all elementary school teachers have
attained the level of a secondary normal school graduate or better
and that all junior middle school teachers have attained the level
of a normal college graduate or better.
The state will establish a system to evaluate teachers and will issue
certificates to qualified teachers.
Graduates of normal schools and colleges should be engaged in educational
work in accordance with regulations. The state shall encourage teachers to
devote themselves to education for a long time.
Article 14: Society as a whole should respect teachers. The state
will protect teachers' legitimate rights and interests, take
measures to raise their social status and improve their material
benefits, and commend outstanding teachers.
Teachers should dedicate themselves to the socialist educational
undertaking, strive to raise their ideological consciousness and cultural
and professional levels, take care of their students, and be loyal to
their duty.
Article 15: Local people's governments at various levels should
create the conditions to enable all school-age children and young
people to go to school. Local people's governments should criticize
people who are not attending school, except for those who are ill or
have other special reasons, and have the approval of local people's
governments, and should take action to order the parents and
guardians to send their children and wards to school,
Organizations or individuals that employ school-age children and young
people shall be criticized and ordered to put a stop to such employment by
local people's governments. Those involved in serious cases shall be given



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
a fine or ordered to suspend this business or have their business licenses
revoked.
Article 16: No organizations and individuals are allowed to seize,
retain or divert for other purposes, funds for compulsory education;
nor are they allowed to disrupt school order and seize, occupy or
destroy school grounds, buildings and facilities.
Verbal abuses and beatings of teachers and physical punishment of students
are forbidden.
Activities obstructing compulsory education in the name of zeligion are
forbidden.
Disciplinary action or administrative punishment shall be meted out for
violations of the stipulations in Section 1 and Section 2 according to the
degree  of  seriousness;  those  who  have  caused  damages  should  pay
compensation for the losses; and those involved in serious cases that
constitute a crime shall be investigated to determine their criminal
responsibilities.
Article 17: State Council departments in charge of education shall
work out detailed rules and regulations on the basis of this law, and
enforce these rules and regulations after submitting them to the State
Council for approval.
All provincial, autonomous regional and municipal people's congresses'
standing committees may draw up practical measures for introducing
compulsory educavion on the basis of this law and in the light of the
actual conditions in each locality.
Article 18: This law shall come into force on 1st July 1986.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Basic Enrollment Statistics and
First Grade Repetition Rates
CHINA   GUIZHOU      HUBEI   SHAANXI
Population (7-11; Thousands)        96,600     3,620      4,860      2,610
Net Enrollment Rate (7-11; %)           97         89        98         97
Newcomers (1988; thousands)         17,954        731       935        530
First Grade Enrollment              27,100     1,100      1,316        755
(1988; thousands)
7-Year Old Population               18,700        750       948        540
(1988; thousands)
Estimated Number of Repeaters        9,146        368       381        225
in First Grade (thousands)
Repetition Rate (%)                   33,7       33.5      28.9       29.8
Source: Schefelbein. First Grade Repetition Levels in China.
UNESCO 1990.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Summary of Bank.-Assisted Education Projects in China
University Development Project (1981-1985)
LN 2021 - $100.0 M, CR 1167 - SDR 81.4 M ($100.0 M)
1.        The University Development Project was completed in January 1987.
The project sought to strengthen science and engineering in Chinese
universities. The project involved 28 universities in 15 provinces,
inunicipalities and autonomous regions and had three main objectives. The
first objective was to increase the quality and quantity of graduates and
research at the project universities through the provision of buildings,
furniture and equipment, specialist services, fellowships, and training. The
second objective was to strengthen the planning and management capabilities of
the project universities and Ministry of Education through provision of
equipment, specialist services, fellowships, and training. The final
objective was the preparation of future investments in the education sector.
Agriculture Education and Research Project (1983-1988)
CR 1297 - SDR 67.8 M ($75.4 M)
2.        The Agriculture Education and Research Project was designed to
assist China in strengthening higher education and research in the
agricultural sciences. The project comprised the following four components:
(a) quality improvement in teaching and research; (b) expansion of enrollment
and research capabilities; (c) improvement of resource management; and (d)
development of future investment in agricultural education and research. The
project, which was managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry
and Fishery, included 11 colleges and 7 agricultural institutions.
Polytechnic/Television University Proiect (1984-1989)
CR 1411 - SDR 79.6 M ($85.0 M)
3.        The Polytechric/Television University Project was completed in
December of 1989. The project, which had a total project cost of US$206
million, sought to increase the number of students and improve the quality of
instruction in China's polytechnic and television universities. The project
involved 17 polytechnic institutions anu 28 television universities and
consisted of three components. The polytechnic system component involved
construction and rehabilitation of libraries, laboratories and classrooms as
well as provision of educational equipment and implementation of curriculum
and staff development. The objective of the television universities component
was to increase enrollment in the television universities. This component
also improved the quality of instruction provided by the television university
system and improved the management of resources through the provision of
computer equipment and senior staff training. The project's final component
involved the evaluation of current investments in the polytechnic and
television university systems and planning and preparation of future
investments.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
Rural Health and Medical Education Project (1984-1989)
CR 1472 - SDR 80.2 M ($85.0 M of which $43.3 M is for medical education)
4.        The educational component of this project was designed to enhance
the quality of education, training and research in 13 core medical colleges
through the provision of civil works, furniture, equipment, technical
assistance and fellowships. The objectives of the other two components of the
project were (a) to improve the health status in 46 countries in 3 provinces
and one autonomous region; and (b) to develop the National Center for
Preventative Medicine and the Research Center for Health Planning and
Statistics and to support applied research at the Sichuan Institute for
Chinese Materia Medica.
Sgcond Agricultural Education Project (1984-1991)
LN 2444 - $45.3 M, CR 1500 - SDR 22 M ($23.5 M)
5.        The first objective of this project is increased enrollment and
improved quality of instruction and management at 12 agricultural colleges.
The first objective also includes the introduction of new specializations and
postgraduate programs and the development of modern libraries and food science
facilities at 11 other agricultural colleges. The project's second objective
is an increased training capacity and improved curriculum at eight training,
extension and support centers. The third objective is increased enrollment
and improved instruction at 12 technical schools. The fourth objective is to
improve broadcast education programs in agriculture, increase capacity at the
Agricultural Film Studio of the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries, and increase supplies of agricultural teaching materials. Finally,
the project seeks to improve and assist the evaluation and planning of current
and future investments in agricultural education.
Second University Development Project (1986-1991)
CR 1551 - SDR 148 M ($145 M)
6.        The objective of the Second University Development Project is to
increase China's high level technical and managerial manpower through policy
and institutional changes related to the engineering and economics/finance
education subsector. The project cost totals $1,162 million of which IDA is
financing $145 million. The project includes financing for engineering and
economics/finance subprojects and national programs to be carried out by
eligible institutions. The project consists of the following four components:
enrollment level and structure adjustment, quality improvement, planning and
management development and studies.
Provincial Univarsities Project (1987-1992)
CR 1671 - SDR 108 M ($120 M)
7.        The objective of the Provincial Universities Project is to expand
enrollment and improve the quality and management of higher education
programs. The project's first component assists 60 universities by providing
for civil works, equipment for teaching and research, curricula
reorganization, and staff development in the form of fellowships, study tours



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
and specialist services. The second component assists in the strengthening of
planning and management primarily through the provision of technical
assistance. The third component of the project helps the State Education
Commission to determine the requirements of industry, agriculture, commerce
and government; set enrollment targets; and locate areas where new
institutions are needed. The project is also helping to determine the size of
supply and demand for teachers.
Gansu Provincial Development Project. Education Component (1988-1993)
LN 2812 - $20 M, CR 1793 - SDR 119.1 M ($150.5 M of which $20.0 is for
education)
8.        This project is part of a comprehensive plan to attain universal
nine-year basic education and to improve the quality of instruction in primary
and lower secondary schools in Gansu Province. The program was designed to
increase enrollment ratios and improve the status of teachers. The project
finances civil works, equipment, furniture and technical assistance in order
to (a) increase the output of qualified lower secondary school teachers by
expanding the capacity of five normal colleges to accommodate both preservice
and inservice trainees; (b) improve the quality of preservice primary schools;
(c) reduce the number of unqualified teachers by assisting the Gansu TV
Education Institute to expand its inservice training program to cover the
entire province; (d) improve science instruction in the 400 lower secondary
schools in poor counties; (e) establish a Center for School Administration to
train school and government administrators in order to improve educational
administration; and (f) improve the management of education through assistance
for continuing the development of a new school supervision system and for
planning improvement to the system for managing educational information.
Teacher Training Project (1989-1994)
CR 1908 - SDR 36.8 M ($50.0 M)
9.        The Teacher Training Project was designed to promote universal basic
education through the expansion and upgrading of inservice training for lower
secondary school teachers,  The project emphasizes institution building and
improvements in teacher quality. The project provides construction,
equipment, books, teaching materials, and related technical assistance and has
three components. The first component assists 16 provincial and 53
prefectural schools to train more lower secondary teachers. The second
component assists three municipal institutes of education to develop the
capacity to become information research centers on teacher training. The
third component aims to improve the management capability of the teacher
training system.
Textbook Development Project (1989-1995)
CR 2006 - SDR 41.8 M ($57.0 H)
10.       The Textbook Development Project supports the textbook upgrading
program introduced by the Chinese Government in 1987. The principle
objectives of the project are (a) to improve the educational quality of
textbooks at all levels of schooling; (b) to increase the variety of available



53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
textbooks; and (c) to improve the efficiency of textbook production. The
project finances civil works, equipment and technical assistance for five
components. The first component assists the government in updating and
improving the new primary and secondary school textbooks. The second, third
and fourth components assist key central agencies in 22 provinces and 21
university presses to expand typesetting and printing capacity in order to
meet growing demand and to improve the production quality of textbooks. The
fifth component supports the training of publishing and printing staff from
central agencies as well as university and provincial publishing houses.
Vocational and Technical Education Proiect (1990-1995)
CR 2114 - SDR 38.5 M ($50.0 M)
11.       The objective of this project is to improve the quality of
vocational and technical training in China. The project concentrates on
industrialized provinces and municipalities and has the following four
components: (a) development of vocational training centers in 59 secondary
vocational and technical schools in ten provinces and three municipalities,
(b) expansion and improvement of laborat:ory and workshop instruction in nine
technical teacher training colleges and three university technical teacher
training departments; (c) establishment of one national and two regional VTE
research and development centers to improve the quality, efficiency, and cost-
effectiveness of the VTE system and to develop inexpensive teaching materials
and equipment for the VTE schools; and (d) improvement of the management
capability of the VTE system.
Medium-Sized Cities Development Proiect (1990-1995)
LN 3286 - $79.4 M, CR 2201 - SDR 62.2 M ($80.8 M)
12.       This project assists the Changzhou, Luoyang and Shashi
municipalities to improve, overall and sector planning and management,
formulate and implement policies that better utilize existing facilities,
reduce waste in the design of new investments, provide more appropriate
financing mechanisms for local development, and promote water pollution
control at the industrial enterprise level. The loan and credit finance
investments to support policy reforms in planning, management and municipal
services.
Key Studies DeveloRment Project (1991-1995)
CR 2210 - SDR 92.9 H ($131.2 M)
13.       The Key Studies Development Project supports the government's plans
to reform the management of science and technology programs. The project
seeks to (a) increase the output of s-ientific researchers trained to
international standards in master, doctoral and post-doctoral programs; (b)
enhance the quality and productivity of research in strategic areas relevant
to long-term economic and social development; (c) strengthen the management of
scientific research at both the national and laboratory levels; (d) provide a
modern scientific infrastructure for Chinese scientists trained at home and
abroad; and (e) encourage scientific cooperation across institutional and
national boundaries. The project consists of (a) support for research and



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
graduate student training in 133 State Key Laboratories and Special
Laboratories affiliated with universities and with the Chinese Academy of
Sciences; (b) a pilot program to assist seven of the project laboratories to
improve management efficiency and the quality of research and training of
graduate students in science; (c) development of a demonstration computer
network that would link Qinghua and Beijing Universities and the Computer
Center of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and establish an enhanced computing
facility at the CAS center; and (d) a program advisory group of Chinese and
foreign experts that would provide advice to implementing agencies on the
overall direction and progress of all components. The project is financing
the foreign exchange costs of equipment and materials needed for research,
spare parts and maintenance, books and journals, travel, technical assistance
and training.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
Investment and Financing Plans
for Primary Education in Hubei Province
1.        Each participating province has prepared a detailed investment plan
which specifies the recurrent and investment requirements between 1990 and the
year 2000, and a financing plan showing the resources expected to be available
from the central, provincial, and local levels of governments for financing
the investment plan. Additionally an action plan was formulated to specify
the quality and efficiency measures required and the policy targets to be
achieved in parallel with the proposed investments. This annex summarizes the
Hubei Province's primary education investment and financing plans. The action
plan is in Annex 7.
2.        The investment plan was formulated using a computer simulation
program, developed for this project, and which includes several submodules.
The first sub-module estimates the school-age population for the period of
1990-2000 according to the current population structure, fertility rate,
mortality rate, and population growth trends. Based on the results from the
population submodule, the student enrolment for each grade was estimated by
taking into account the enrolment rate and a set of the education efficiency
parameters such as repetition rates, dropout rates, and promotion rates. The
second column of Table 1 shows the results of this estimation.
3.        The second sub-module estimates the resources needed for
accommodating the student enrolment. The number of Gongban teachers (teachers
paid by the state appropriation) and Minban teachers (teachers paid the local
community contribution and subsidized by some government funds), the number of
administrators, and the number of total staff, were estimated based on
parameters that include the student/teacher ratio, student/administrator ratio
and the student/total staff ratio. Results are in Table 1. The total
personnel expenditure was estimated based on a set of allocation parameters.
For example, in this particular case, Hubei primary school teachers' average
basic annual salaries were 766 yuan in 1988 and the province committed to an
annual increase of 3% between 1990 and 2000. The expenditure for teachers'
benefits and welfare was 296 yuan per person in 1988 and the provincial
government also committed to an annual increase of 3% for the coming decade.
Similar parameters were used for the estimation of expenditures for
administrators and campus service workers. The total personnel expenditures
for the period of 1990 to 2000 is in the second column of Table 2. The non-
personnel recurrent expenditure, in this particular case, was estimated by
applying the parameter of annual average per student non-personnel expenditure
of 13.5 yuan for 1990-1995, and 17.6 yuan for 1996-2000. The results are
shown in the third column of Table 2. The investment needed for upgrading the
school conditions were estimated by applying set of parameters including
number of classrooms in dangerous condition which need rebuild, number of
classrooms which need major repairs, classroom desks and chairs needed, the
shortfall of equipment, the library books needed. The results is shown in the
fourth column of Table 2. Finally, the investment requirements for new school



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
building construction was estimated by multiplying the unit cost per square
meter of school building with the sxtra square meters of school buildings
needed during 1990-2000. The rest.its is given in the fifth column of Table 2.
4.        To formulate the financing plan, the Provincial Education Commission
and the Provincial Department of Finance conducted a careful analysis of the
patterns of primary education finance for 1980s. Basic informatiL on sources
of finance for primary education are in Table 3. The financial resources were
then projected for 1989-1899 by taking into account of the overall economic
and financial situation of the province, the financial commitment of the
central, provincial and local government, the policy on education levies, the
trends and potential of social contributions, the policy on cost-sharing and
cost-recovery which takes into account of the amount of school fees and the
affordability of students' families. The results of this planning for primary
school finance are given in the third column of Table 4, and the differences
between resources available and resources required are shown in Table 5.
5.        Results.  Estimates of total resources required and total resources
which will be available in coming years are very close when provincial data is
used (see Table 5). However, when the same exercise was done with data from
the poor counties which will be financed by the project, there was a wide gap
between resources required and resources available (Table 6). It is evident
from this exercise that a reallocation of resources has to take place in
coming years with fewer resources allocated to urban and advanced counties and
more resources allocated to poor counties. The most significant reallocation
required is in teaching positions and resources to pay teachers salaries. At
present, urban areas have about 13 students per teacher while in poor counties
there are no gongban (government financed) teachers and minban teachers are
required to teach groups of 40 and 50 students. Reallocation of teachers
positions is one of the targets of the proposed targets of the action plans
detailed in Annex 7.
6.          A second interesting result of this exercise was noted when
different population parameters were used. Among all the parameters used to
estimate resource requirements the one that has the highest impact on the
total requirements is the change in population growth. A one percent increase
in population growth will require an additional 2% increase in education
resources per year.
7.        A third interesting result of the exercise is that resources that
will be provided by the project for investment in poor counties will only be
sufficient to cover about one-third of the investment needs during 1991 and
1996. Even though the project is targeted to few poor counties it does not
cover their needs and does not place then in equal conditions with more
advanced counties. Moreover, the project will only be sustainable if the
province manages to provide the reallocate required teaching positions from
urban to rural areas.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
Table 1: HUBEI PROVINCE: PROJECTED ENROLLMENT AND STAFF
OF PRIMARY EDUCATION (1989-2000)
Enrolment         Gong-ban         Min-ban          Total Staff
Teachers         Teachers
1989             6,320,795        114,630          180,862            334,595
1990             6,358,403        118,150          178,172            335,097
1991             6,396,236        123,358          175,482            335,600
1992             6,434,293        128,476          172,792            336,103
1993             6,472,577        132,990          170,102            336,607
1994             6,511,089        140,224          167,412            337,112
1995             6,549,800        146,494          164,722            337,618
1996             6,519,177        150,488          162,082            338,124
1997             6,488,667        154,504          459,042            338,631
1998             6,458,800        158,427          156,652            339,139
1999             6,428,075        162,411          153,926            339,648
2000             6,397,992        166,783          151,272            340,157
Source:  Hubei Province - Education Bureau project preparation documents
Table 2: HUBEI PROVINCE: PRIMARY INVESTMENT PLAN
(1989-2000)
(in million yuan)
1988 constant prices
Personnel                       Expenditure
Expenditure   Non-Personnel   for Upgrading    New School
(Salaries     Recurrent        School            Building
Year    & Welfare)    Expenditures    Conditions          Construction   Total
1989      398.15          12.08            53.99              2.28        466.42
1990      410.09          12.69            56.68              2.44        481.90
1991      428.40          13.32            59.52              2.61        498.85
1992      435.07          13.99            62.58              2.80        514.36
1993      448.12          14.69            65.62              2.99        531.42
1994      461.56          15.42            68.90              3.21        549.09
1995      475.41          16.20            72.35              3.44        567.40
1996      489.67          17.01            75.96              3.68        586.24
1997      504,36          17,86            79.76              3.94        605.92
1998      519.49          18.75            83.75              4.22        626.18
1999      535.08          19.69            87,94              45.2        647.23
2000      551.13          20.67            92.34              4.84        668.98
Source:   Hubei Provincial Education Commission:  Project Preparation
Documents, 1990.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
TabLe 3: HUBEI PROVINCE: SOURCES OF FINANCE FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
C 1980-1987)
(in thousand yuan)
1980       1981        1982      1983      1984       1985       1986        1987
Central govermnent             300        300         300       300       350        560         560      1,400
Provincial goverrnent        4,600      3,230       5,190    4,020    4,45u        5,270      6,300       7,110
Local government           126,330   128,540    144,790  160,780  165,150   189,530   207,500   222,850
Education surcharges
Social contributions        22,350    24,830       27,590   30,660   34,070    37,850    26,830    28,280
Overseas contributions
School fees                  6,010      6,670       7,420    8,240    9,160    10,180    13,150    15,220
School generated funds       6,850      7,610       8,450    9,390   10,440    11,600    12,320    15,270
Others                      12,860    14,290       15,880   17,650   19,610    21,790    37,910    48,090
Construction funds
from pLanning commissions
Total                      179,300   185,470    209,620  231,040  243,440   275,780   304,570   338,220
Total enrollment           7,558.5   7,256.1    6,954.7  6,741.8  6,610.7   6,568.9   6,479.7   6,351.1
Provincial allocation/
student yuan)               0.6        0.4         0.7       0.6       0.7        0.8         1.0        1.1
Local Altocation/
student yuan)              16.7       17.7        20.8      23.8      25.0       28.7       32.0        35.1
Source:  World Bank mission questionnaire, 1990.
Provincial Education Bureau Date.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
Tabe:  HUBEI PROVINCE:  FINANCING PLAN FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
(1989-2000)
(in million yuan)
Sources of Finance*                            1988             1989-2000
(I) RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATION:
among which
(1) Central Government                         1.50              14.40
(2) Provincial Government                      8.36             100.82
(3) Local Government                         223.65           3,990.51
OTHER SOURCES:
among which
(4) Education Levy                            97.89           1,137.08
(5) Social Contribution                       69.71             886.51
(6) Overseas Donation                          0.00               0.00
(7) School Fees                               31.47             377.68
(8) Work-Study                                21.44             257.38
(9) Others                                     0.00               0.00
(II) CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(10) Central Government                        0.70               8.40
(11) Provincial Government                     0.98              11.76
(12) Others                                    0.78               9.38
TOTAL                                        456.48           6,793.92
* In 1988 constant price.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
Table 5: HUBEI PROVINCE:
RESOURCES REQUIRED AND RESOURCES AVAILABLE
FOR FINANCING PRIMARY EDUCATION
1991-1996
(in million yuan, 1988 constant price)
1991     1992      1993     1994      1'995    1996
Resources
Required           498.85   514.36   531.42   549.09   567.40   586.24
Resources
Available          498.80   513.76   529.17   545.04   561.30   578.24
Balance             -0.05   -0.60      -2.25    -4.05    -6.10    -8.00
Source: Hubei Provincial Education Commission: Project
Preparation Documents, 1990.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
Table 6: HUBEI PROVINCE
RESOURCES NEEDED AND RESOURCES AVAILABLE
FOR FINANCING PRIMARY EDUCATION
IN PROJECT COUNTIES
1991-1995
(in million yuan, 1988 constant price)
COUNTY                    RESOURCES          RESOURCES*         BALANCE
NAME                      NEEDED            AVAILABLE
Yingshan                   75                  67                 -8
Macheng                   150                 140                -10
Luotian                    93                  85                 -8
Hongan                     96                  88                 -8
Dawu                      114                 106                 -8
Danjiangkou                89                  81                 -8
Yunxian                    82                  74                 -8
Yunxi                      83                  75                 -8
Zhushan                    74                  66                 -8
Zhuxi                      51                  43                 -8
Fangxian                   83                  75                 -8
Enshi                     110                 100                -10
Jianshi                    79                  71                 -8
Badong                     92                  84                 -8
Lichuan                   106                  98                 -8
Xuanen                     63                  55                 -8
Xianfeng                   55                  47                 -8
Laifeng                    48                  42                 -6
Hefeng                     37                  31                 -6
TOTAL                   1,587               1,431               -156
*Including subsidies from Central and Provincial Governments.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Socio-economic Information for Proiect Provinces and Counties
Taole-2-1: SocLo-economic Information for Project Provinces (1989)
INDICATORS               CHINA   GUIZHOU  HUBEI  HUWA=  SHAANXI  SPWXI ft3AN
Total Population (X)  1,111.9    31.69  52.59   60.09   31.91   27.93   36.48
t of Population          27.67    32.07  28.29   28.82   28.08   28.50   31.90
under age 15
% of Rural               79.54     87.8  77.68   85.12   81.69   78.35   87.91
Crude Birth Rate         20.83    21.16  21.09   22.91   22.25   20.15   23.07
(per thousand)
Infant Mortality Rate    38.1      71.1   40.5    51.8    47.2    31.3    84.4
(per thousand - 1981)
GNP per capita            1420      748   1342    1077    1074    1262       871
(yuan)
Edu. exp as % of          12.1     17.2   36.9    19.3    17.9    20.3    16.9
total gov. exp
Gov. edu. exp per capita   29      24.9   22.8    23.9    26.3    37.0    21.6
(yuan)
Literacy Rate:            84.1     75.7   84.2    87.9    82.3    88.7    74.6
Male                    NA       NA     NA       NA      NA       NA      NA
Female                 NA        NA     NA       NA      NA       NA      NA
No. of Counties           2181       86      71      98     107      118     127
Number of Poor             664       31      37      28      69       35      41
Counties
Population of poor                   12      16      12      21        5      11
Counties (million)
No. of Counties            114       20      19      15       20      20      20
in the Project
Population of Project               7.0    9.5      5.8     6.5      2.6     5.2
Counties (million)
Project Population as              22.2   18.1      9.6    20.5      9.4    14.4
% of Total Population
Project Population as               5.8     60       48      31       52     47
% of Total Population
in Poor Counties



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
.ble 2-2: EDUCATION INFORMATION (1989)
INDICATORS               CHINA   GUIZHOU  HUBEI  HUNAN  SHAANXI  SHANXI  YUNNAN
Primary Education
Enrollment (Million)   123.73   4e40       6.32    7.05    3.51    2.97    4.57
Number of Teachers       5,543    164       295     307      175     163      174
(thousand)
Student/Teacher Ratio    22.3   26.8       21.4    22.9    20.1    18.2    26.2
% Min Ban Teachers        42.8   41.7      54.9    47.4    52.6    46.0    21.2
% Female Students         45.9   39.3      45.9    46.4    46.6    46.9    43.7
% of Counties with        53.8   10.3      62.7    64.2    86.5    21.9    34.8
Universal Primary
Education (1986)
Lower-Secondary Education
Enrollment (Thousands) 38,379    804    1,751   2,033   1,063   1,270   1,018
Number of Teachers       2,427     44       123     122       75      91       54
(thousands)
Student/Teacher Ratio    15.8   18.4       14.2    16.6    14.1    14.0    18.9
% of Female Students      42.1   33.5      40.0    41.3    44.3    47.1    41.3
Uni-ersity
No. of Univ. Student      18.7    8.7      24.7    14.7    30.9    18.3    12.3
per 10,000 populatien
No. of Universities       1075     24        63      51       48      26       27
SEdC                      36      0         3       0        2       0       0
Provincial               722     24        36      38       23      21       25
Other Central            317      0        24      13       23       5        2
Ministries



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
lable 2-3: BASIC SOCIOECONOMIC INFORMATION FOR PROJECT COUNTIES (1989)
INDICATORS                    GUIZHOU  HUBEI  HUNAN  SHAANXI  SHANXI  YUNNAN   TOTAL
Total No.                           86     71      98      107    118    127    607
of Counties
No. of Project                      20     19      15       20      20     20    114
Counties
Population of                     7.02   9.49   5.78      5.75   2.62   5.24  35.92
Project Counties
(in millions)
Average Size of                    351    499    385       287    131    262
Project Counties
(in thousands)
Project Population                22.2   18.1    9.6      20.5    9.4   14.4
as % of Total
Population in the province
Average Farmers,                   206    281    374       302    310    217
Cash Income
Per Capita of Project
Counties (in Yuan)
Total County Government           27.4   57.1   64.1      32.7   39.8   40.6
Revenue Per Capita in
Project Counties (Yuan)
Total Gov. Exp.                   40.9   78.4   67.2      48.3  114.2   94.3
Per Capita in
Project Counties (Yuan)
Education Exp. as %               28.4   22.4   30.1      40.9   21.7   24.8
of Total Gov. Exp.



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Table 2-4: EDUCATION INFORMATION (1989)
INDICATORS                   GUIZHOU      HUBEI      HUNAN    SHAANXI   SHANXI    YUNNAN
Primary Education
No. of Schools               7580      8153       5803      7269       7929       9934
5/6 grades (complete)       2503       5055       1277      2830       2547       2322
less than 4 grades          5107       3098       3806      4439       4382       7612
% of Incomplete Schools    67.3        37.9       65.5      61.1       55.2       76.6
No. of Teachers           36,921    5t,560    31,547    25,412    17,221    30,355
% of Gongban Teachers       59.8       51.7       51.3      49.1       48.1       68.0
No. of Students(thousands)885.5   1,173.8        681.9     498.2      319.5      709.5
- Boarding               10.8      118.3      57.6       18.9       22.7     102.3
- Minority               42.7         -        2.5                    -      106.8
Students Per Teacher        23.9       20.7       21.6      19.6       18.5       23.3
Lower-Secondary Education
No. of Schools                 -        832        418       326        440        238
Average Classes per School   -          6.9        8.9       9.0        5.8          9
Average Students Per Class   -           48         49        42         44         52
No. of Teachers                -     18,900    10,736      8,320      8,115      8,050
% of Gongban Teachers          -       96.8       91.9      89.2       81.9       73.3
No. of Students (thousands)  -        260.0      182.9     121.7      111.0      115.3
- Boarding                 -       220.0     105.0       38.0       53.4      80.6
- Minority                           NA         -                     -
- % Boarding               -        84.6      57.4       31.2      48.1       69.8
- % Minority               -         NA         -               -          -
S     % Girls T                                NA        1  f       1  7
Students Per Teacher           -13.8              14.3      14.6       13.7       14.3



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Sample Policy Letter
HUBEI PROVINCE
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Gentlemen:
RE: Education Development in Poor Provinces Project
With regard to the referenced project, please find attached two
annexes, one setting forth the policy actions to be taken by Hubei Province
during the project implementation period to improve the situation of basic
education in the province (the Lower Secondary Action Plan and the Primary
Education Action Plan). The second annex sets forth the estimated counterpart
funds to be provided for the purposes of the Project by Hubei Province and
counties.
Hubei Province will carry out the actions set forth in the first
annex completely, expeditiously and in a timely manner, so that the project
will be able to achieve its objectives. To this end, this Province will carry
out activities needed in primary schools to:
(a)  im,prove access to school and to ensure that there are sufficient
numbers of classrooms and teachers in all rural areas of the
project counties so that all children may complete the five or six
years of education;
(b) improve internal. efficiency by increasing the promotion and
completion rates;
(c) improve resource management in urban schools by streamlining the
workload of teachers;
(d) improve teaching in rural schools; and
(e)  improve. the living and teaching'conditions of Minban teachers.
In secondary schools located in rural areas, llubei Province will
carry out activities to:
(a) improve access to school;
(b) improve resource management



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(c) improve quality inputs and school conditions; and
(d) improve the living and teaching conditions of Hinban teachers.
Specific targets to be achieved are in Annex 1.
With regard to the estimated counterpart fund contributions set
forth in Annex 2, Hubei Province will provide the estimated contributions.
Furthermore, should the contributions from the counties and villages prove
insufficient, this Province will provide the additional funds needed to make
up the shortfall.
Authorized Representative
Hubei Province
Attachments



CtINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Provincial Policy ActioQ Plans - Performance Indicators
Table 6-1-1:  Performance Indicators for Pclmry Educatton
ciuWaz Pravf me
INDICATORS                                                                     1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
1.   IMPROVE  ACCESS TO             (a)  Increase  enrollment  rate            70.0    75.0                                                         96.0
SCHOOL AND                    (b)  increase  enrollment  rate            60.0    65.0                                                        , 92.0
CONDITION  OF STUDY                 of girls
Cc)  increase  enrollment  rate            69.4    74.6                                                         92.9
of minority  children
Cd)  Increase  % of                        33.0    33.0                                                        50.58
complete schools
te)  Increase  X of children
iho get f ree textbooks
(f)  Increase  Z of fmilies
who get funds for sending
children  to school                                                                                                           O
(C)  Reduce X of dangerous                 10.0      6.7                                                         3.0                O
school buildings                                                                                             .
(h)  Reduce X of damaged                   30.0    27.4                                                         18.0
school  buildings
II.  IMPROVE  INTERNAL              Ca)  Reduce repetition  rate in            15.3    12.3                                                          3.8
EFFICIENCY  OF                     first grade
RURAL SCHOOLS                 tb) .Reduce repetition  rate in              8.5     7.5                                                          3.2
primary  school  (grades  1-6)
tc)  Increase X of promotion               47.0    50.0                                                         65.0
of primary graduates
(d)  Increase X of
muttigrade  classrooms
Ce)  Increase  completion                 71.38   76.66                                                        83.89          b  Z
rate of primary  s(hDol                                                                                                     rX
Ill. IMPROVE RES0RCE                Ca)  Increas%  student/teacher             24.0    23.0                                                         23.0          0 14
MANAGEMENT  IN                      ratio in urban schools
URBAN SCHOOLS   .             (b)  Increase  workload  of                24.0    25.0                                                          26.0
urban teachers  (in hours
taught per week)
Cc)  Increase  budget for                   9.0      9.0                                                         15.0
nonsalary items:
H(Gngyong as X of
total educational budget



INDiCATORS                                                                    1988    1989    1990    1991    19wo    1993    1994    195    1996
IV.  IMPROVE oUALITY               (a)  Increase  no. of library               1.1      1.7                                                        7.0
INPUTS  IN RURAL                   books per student
SCOOCLS                       (b)  Increase X of schools                  6.0     6.2                                                       100.0
with standard  equipment
(c)  Increase  X of                       57.0    61.5                                                        95.0
teachers  with academic
qualifications
(d)  Increase X of classrooms             74.9    77.3                                                          100
with cotplete  furniture
(desks & chairs)
(e)  Increase  X of schools                  0       0                                                          100
using new textbooks
Cf)  Increase  X of schools
using bilingual textbooks
(g)  Increase X of multigraded
teachers trained and using
miltigraded strategies
V.   IMPROVE  THE                  (a)  Increase  annuat subsidy of          399.2   421.4                                                       534.6                 1
CONDITION  OF                      minban teachers  (Yuan of 1990)
NINBAN TEACHER                (b)  Increase X of minbn                   45.0    54.7                                                         1900
teachers  with pension-plan          4
(c)  Increase X of minban
teachers attending
in-service training
roQD
oQ z:
o



D4CATION DEVELOPHENT IN P06R PROVINCES PROJECT
ProvLncLal PolLci Action Plans - Performance rndLtators
Table 6-2-l;  Perforwance Indicators for S.condary Educatioan
ijaei Prwni,e
IJWICAToRs                                                                      1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    193    1994            1995    1996
1.        IMPROVE ACCESS TO       (a)  Increase percent of                        Si       57                                                             7
SCNOCi                       primry schoot graates
who enroll in secondary
schools
(b)  Increase no. of                               260,000                                                        336,300
places in secondary
schools
(c) [ncreaoe no. of minority
children in secondary
schools
(d) Increase no. of                                   0.86
secondary schools per                                                                                                            °
10,000 inhabitants
(e) Increaie no. of
secondary schools per
10.000 km?
(f) Increase X of girls
in secondary schools
It. IMPROVE RESOURCE               (a)  Increase student/teacher                 13.2    13.7                                                             15
KANAGEJENT                  ratio
(b) Increse workload of                        24       24                                                             28
teachers (weekly tewching
load)
(c) Increose average size of                           312                                                               468
secondary school
(d) Increase budget for                         14      12                                                             20
nomaslary item:
Gongyongz as X of
totol educational budget



INICATORS                                                                     1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994         1995    1996
III. IMPROVE QUALITY              (a) Reduce X of dangerous                    4.8     4.5                                                            1
INPUTS AND                buildings
SCHOOL CONDITIONS            (b) Reduce X of demaged                       43      42                                                            9
buildings
(c) Increase X of schools                     28      39                                                           70
ith standard equipment
Clever 1I)
(d) Increase no. of library                  4.2    5.74                                                           10
books per student
(e) Increase X of teachers                    32    33.5                                                           50
uith academic
qualifications
IV. IMPROVE THE                   (a) Increase annual subsidy of               814     840                                                         1100
CONDITION OF                       mirban teachers (Yuan of 90)
INIBAN TEACHER                tb) Increase percent of minban                10      40                                                           100
teachers vith pension-plan
Cc) Irnrease percent of minban
teachers who are qualified
dtu
-.1 -
0
tD n



CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
School Construction
Primary School        Construction Requested in Originat Project Proposals (in Thousand square meters)
New                                      Major                Minor                 Total
Province          Construction         Substitution            Reports               Repairs               Area
Guizhou                                         161.5                 177.9                502.3                1,299.2
Hubei                       457                 176.0                 554.2               1,118.0               2,113.2
Hu2an                       38753                59.3                 260.6                655.3                1,362.5
Shaanxi                        .                 77.3                  66.7                 94.2                  486.3
Yunnan                      185.9                98.0                 221.5                483.6                  988.0
39.0               193.8                 205.9                588.3                1,027.0
1   _______ _________7,276.2
Construction Plarmned (or thousand square meters)
Province               New                                      Major                 Minor                Total
___ __  Construction      Substitution            Repairs               Repairs                Area
Guizhou                     204.6               71.9                   79.8                206.9                 563.2                           1
Hubei                        70.5               52.8                  175.2                335.4                 633.9                          14
Hunan                        96.7               14.8                   65.1                163.8                 340.4                          t'
Shaanxi                     1 U ;               58.8                   50.7                 71.6                 369.7
Shanxi                       83.7               44.1                   99.7                217.1                 444.6
Yumnan                       24.6               122.1                 129.7                370.7                 647.1
Total                                                                                                          2,988.9
Plamed Construction as % of Requested
Province
New                                      Major                Minor
Construction        Substitution            Repairs               Repairs               Total      -d
Guizhou                     44.72%              44.5%                 44.9%                41.2%                 43.3%              OQ t
Hubei                       30.0%               30.0%                 30.0%                 30.0%                30.0%                 >
Hunan                       25.0%               25.0%                 30.0%                 25.0%                25.0%                0O
Shaanxi                     76.02%              76.1%                 76.0%                76.0%                 76.0%              0
Shanxi                      45.02%              45.0%                 45.0%                45.0%                 45.0%              eh
Yurman                      63.08%              63.0%                 63.0%                63.0%                 63.0%
Total                  _                                                                                           40%



CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOP EUT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Construction Program - Recuests by Province
Primary School   State of Buildings                                                       i tin Thousand siare meters)
In Good         %.of Good          Needs         Need Major         Need Minor          Total         Students in    Existing Area
Condition        Conr.Jition    Substitution         Repairs          Repairs            Area           Thousands        Per Student
Guizhou                1,680.5             66X              161.5             177.9            502.3          2,522.2             885.5              2.85
Hubei                  2,623.5             58%              176.0            584.2           1,118.0          4,501.7           1,173.8              3.84
Hunan                  1,334.7             51X               59.3            260.6             655.3          2,616.5             682.3              3.83            uo
Shaanxi                1,198.8             83X           .   77.3              66.7             94.2          1,437.0             498.2              2.88
Shanxi                   445.6             36X               98.0            221.5             482.6          1,247.7             319.5              3.91
Ttunan                 1,334.7             57X              193.8            205.9             588.3          2,322.7             709.5              3.27
Total                  8,924.4            61X               765.9          1,516.8           3,440.7         14,647.8          4,268.8               3.40
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OQ K
m co
Co
00
t.l



CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM PLANS PER PROVINCE
Secondary Schools (Planned sq mt)
New                            Major            Minor         Students      Estimate' of
Area       Substitutions       Repairs         Repairs       (thousands)   New Classrooms
(A)             (B)             (C)             (D)              (E)        (A+B)+64
Guizhou                                 _                                                                 _
Hubei              37,350           5,040          15,971          31,680              260              662
Hunan              35,025           7,849          12,796          32,155              183              670
Shaanxi           35,260            8,700           8,682           6,571              121              687
Shanxi            26,169            8,163          17,033          36,057              111              536
Yunnan             18,382          13,402          11,068          15,212              115              497              E
OQK
QQx
oo
0



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
School EguiRment and Books
Table 9-1: Unit Cost of Standard Teaching Equipment for
Primary & Lower Secondary School (Yuan)
STANDARD FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL
SUBJECT        STANDARD         I            II          III
Mathematics                  1263.20      466.60        262.60
General Knowledge            8705.12    4301.72         664.12
Music                        2671.50    1766.50         392.00
Arts                         4525.00    2585.00        1065.00
TOTAL                       17184.82    9119.82        2383.72
STANDARD FOR LOWER-SECONDARY SCHOOL
SUBJECT       STANDARD          I            II          III
Physics                      5410.30      9499.40     4727.50
Chemistry                    7624.16      6816.93     2245.26
Biology                      9260.30    12287.90      4722.60
Geography                     987.50       736.50       411.00
Mathematics                  1679.00       899.00       444.00
TOTAL                       44961.26    30239.73    12550.36
STANDARD     I:  For Urban School
II: For Rural School
III:  For Smal, Rural School



CHINA
EDUCATION DEYELOPMENT IN POOR QROVINCES PROJECT
Table 9-2: Distribution of School Equipments by Standard Type*
| Province     No. of      No. of SchooLs    No. of Schools    No. of Schools    Total No.            X of School|
Schools    Receiving          Receiving          Receiving          of Equipment    Receiving
Type I            Type II             Type III           Packages         Equipment
Equipment         Equlpment           Equipment
Primary School
GuLzhou        7580          99                   309              3516              3924              51.77
Hubei          8153          12                     4              2895              2911              35.70
Hunan          5803         511                   590              2000              3101              53.43
ShaanxL        7269         120                  574              1751               2445              33.63
Shanxl         7929           9                  290               3637              3836              49.64
Yunnan         9934         252                 2015              2611               4877              49.10
Lover-Secondary School
Guizhou           -             -                                     -                 -                 -     |
Hubei           832           23                   63               91                177              21.27
Hunan           418           71                   30               94                195              46.65
Shaanxi         326           43                 103               115               261               80.06
Shanxl          440            5                 100               156               261               59.32
Yunnan          238            4                   40               53                 97              40.75
* According to inLfomation in the costs tables.



-77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Table 9-4: DISTRIBUTION OF LIBRARY BOOKS
Province    No. of Project   No. of Students    No. of Books   No. of Books
Schools           in Project          Receiving       Per Student
Schools (000)
Primary School
Guizhou         7,580                885.5           2,656,500         3
Hubei           8,153              1,273.8           3,921,400         3
Hunan           5,803                681.9           2,045,700         3
Shaanxi         7,269                498.2           1,494,600         3
Shanxi          7,929                319.5             958,500         3
Yunnan          9,934                709.5           2,128,50(t        3
Lower-Secondary Education
Guizhou
Hubei            832                  288.9          2,311,200         8
Hunan            418                  182.3          1,458,400         8
Shaanxi          326                  171.7          1,373,600         8
Shanxi           440                  111.0            888,000         8
Yunnan           238                  115.3            922,400         8



- 78 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 14
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Technical Assistance
I. BASIC EDUCATION
A. SRecial Studies Related to the Action Plans
1.        Special studies will be designed and financed to help understand
and solve problems that arise in meeting target indicators; and prepare in
each province a plan for revising teacher training.
B. Seminars
2.        Seminars will be organized to strengthen:
(a)  the training of teachers for multi-graded schools, the Hunan
provincial authorities will organize seminars which will bring
together multi-graded education specialists from each of the six
project provinces to report on, study and discuss successful
methods of multi-graded teaching which have been developed both in
China and internationally. three foreign experts will be invited
to participate with four local Chinese experts in this seminar.
The seminar will be held in year two or three of the project.
(b) minority education, the Yunnan provincial authorities will organize
a seminar to report on, study and discuss minority education in the
provinces of Yunnan, Guizhou, and Hunan, as well as thailand,
Myramar (Burma), and Malaysia. A small number of minority
education experts from these latter counties will be invited to
participate in the seminar. This seminar will be held in year two
or three of the project.
(c) bilingual education, the Yunnan provincial authorities will
coordinate three seminars to report on, study and discuss
experiences in bilingual education in Yunnan and Guizhou, as well
as experts from neighboring countries will be invited to
participate in the seminar. This seminar will be held in year two
or three of the project.
C. Workshops
3.        Workshos will be financed by the project for science teaching for
teacher trainers at the provincial level in all project provinces. The
workshops will focus on the introduction of multi-disciplinary science
curricula subjects such as environmental sciences, the use of science teaching
equipment financed by the project, improved laboratory methods and using local
resources to strengthen the teaching of science-related courses at the primary



- 79 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 14
and lower secondary level schools. The workshops will be given in Provincial
Education Institutes, Provincial Teacher Training Institutes and the
Provincial Teaching Research Office, and will focus on science teachers in the
prefectural and county level educational institutes. A national level key
university with experience in science teaching at the basic education level
will help to organize all workshops, and will send science teaching experts
from their university to assist in these workshops. One foreign expert in
science teaching methodology especially as it relates to the multi-
disciplinary approaches to science education, will participate in each
seminar. These seminars will be organized annually in each province.
D. Study Tours
4.        Study tours will be financed by the project in the following topic
areas:
(a)  Multi-graded Education:  in preparation for the Multi-graded
Education Seminar (see I.B.b. above), Hunan provincial authorities
will organize a study tour for appropriate staff from all six
project provinces to visit countries and regions in Asia and
Australia to study the experience of multi-graded education in
these countries. About 24 persons per province will spend three
weeks abroad.
(b)  Minority Rducation:  in preparation for the Minority education
Seminar (see I.B.a. above), Yunnan provincial authorities will
organize a study tour for appropriate staff from Yunnan, Guizhou,
and Hunan to visit Thailand, Myramar (Burma) and Malaysia) in order
to study the experience on minority education in these countries.
About 24 persons per province will spend three weeks abroad.
(c) Bilingual Education: in preparation for the Bilingual Education
Seminar (see I.B.d. above), Iunnan provincial authorities will
organize a study tour for appropriate staff from Yunnan, Guizhou to
visit appropriate neighboring countries in order to study the
experience on bilingual education in these countries (three persons
per province, three weeks abroad).
(d) Science Teaching: in preparation for the Science Teaching Workshop
(see I.B.c. above), a national level key university will organize a
study tour to Hong Kong and appropriate other locations (including
special UNESCO science education centers) to study the experience
in science education in differert countries (24 persons per
province, three weeks abroad).



- 80 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 14
II. HIGHER EDUCATION
A. Staff Training - in each Project University (details in specific
proposals)
5.        Staff training in the project universities will be carried out in
several ways:
(a)  Degree and Non-degree study primarily for junior faculty, both in
China and abroad;
(b) the invitation of academic experts, both Chinese and foreign to
lecture, advise and consult on curriculum development,
organizational restructuring, instrumentation use, and other such
subjects;
(c) training of administrative staff especially in academic and fiscal
management, the administration of test and analysis as well as
computer centers and libraries, the organization and management of
university-based enterprises, etc.
6.        Each project university has prepared a very detailed plan of the
specific training required. Some institutions will establish twinning
arrangements with Chinese key national level science, engineering, minority or
foreign language universities in order to effectively utilize technical
assistance in the three categories (a., b., c.) mentioned above. Also, they
will establish twinning arrangements with universities abroad to carry out
their plans. Shaanxi Foreign Language Institute will cooperate with the
twinning arrangements, selection of foreign experts and language training and
interpretation services for scholars going abroad.
B. Annual Progress Reports - Systematic Evaluation
7.        The Annual Report process will be supported by two organizations,
one in China and the other outside. The activities which each will support
are:
(a) A Chinese national level education research institutes will create
a questionnaire which will be used to gather material for both the
quantitative and qualitative assessment of institution's progress
in achieving the goals of the institution's action plan. this
institution will also take the lead in evaluating the data obtained
by the distribution of the questionnaire and transmit this
evaluation to the Chinese Experts Panel; and
(b) An international higher education research institution will be
selected which will assist in the creation of the questionnaire and
the evaluation of the data collected by its distribution.



- 81 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 14
8.        The Final Report of the Higher Education Pilot Projects will be
produced for disseMination of lessons, and will be presented in a workshop to
all participating institutions.
C. Chinese Experts Panel for Higher Education
9.        A Chinese Experts Panel will be organized to:
(a) monitor and assess quality and organization changes in the pilot
project universities during the implementation of the project.
This six-person panel will be made up of four Chinese academics
with strong experience in the development of the teachinv and
research areas of basic sciences, engineering, computer science,
and foreign languages. The fifth and sixth members of the Panel
will be Chinese and a foreign experts in the reform of university
structure. The Panel will be able to add to its membership
additional disciplinary specialists as the need arises.
10.       The Panel will:
(a) assess the state of sample disciplines identified in the pilot
university's proposal at the start, mid-way through and at the end
of the project to monitor the planned for reduction of number of
specialties, as well as the broadening the basic science component
and reforming the structure and content of the specialties;
(b) monitor the progress of the institutional restructuring plans
contained in the pilot university's proposal; and
(c) monitor the institution's progress in other aspects of the pilot
institution's plans such as the training, retraining, reallocation
of staff and faculty, assuring the maximum efficient use of
project-financed equipment, increases in both the number of types
of student enrollment and other project goals.
D. Planning Future Higher Education Reforms
11.       In order to strengthen the provincial capacity to develop
sustainable higher and provincial education reform plans, the project will
finance several activities:
(a) a study tour for provincial higher education authorities and the
presidents of the pilot project higher education institutions in
Shaanxi '.rovince to visit Australia and the United Kingdom to study
the experience of successful university restructuring programs.
The British Council will be approached for possible funding and
organizational assistance for the trip to the United Kingdom.
Likewise, such an organization will be approached in Australia;



- 82 -
AMSEX 1Q
Page 5 of 14.
(b)  intern training abroad for one year for two staff members of the
Shaanxi Provincial higher education bureau in higher education
master planning. Such intern training could be provided in the
United States or another countries which produce provincial or
state-wide higher education master plans;
(c) a research study on labor markets, surveys and their utility to a
provincial higher education reform activity;
(d)  training of nianrers:  support for a provincial higher education
planning activity to be offered by a Chinese national level, higher
education research institution with assistance of one international
expert. Such supporc could include assistance in staff training,
survey techniques and analysis of statistical data gathered at the
provincial level and other such activities;
(6) a Itmj.nar to disseminate the results of the planning activity.
Such a seminar would include all the six project provinces; and
(f) a special study on guality indicators in higher education. In
order to improve the monitoring of the project's higher education
component, a special study will be conducted by a major Chinese,
national level higher, higher education research institute,
assisted by a similar international education research institute,
to explore possible appropriate quality indicators to be used in
assessing whether or not quality improvements have been achieved as
the result of the project. The study will make recommendations on
appropriate higher education, quality indicators to pilot project
universities, as well as the units monitoring the progress of the
project.
F. Seminars
12.       Seminars will be financed to strengthen university management to:
(a) disseminate the general experience which can be learned from
previous World Bank-supported university development projects.
Shanxi Teachers College will organize a seminar for the presidents,
chief financial officers, and project implementation office chiefs
of all pilot project universities. The seminar will study the
experience in other Chinese universities especially in the areas of
organizational restructuring, reforming of academic specialties,
curricular reform, and improved financial management. This seminar
will be offered in the first year of the project;
(b) allow pilot project university presidents to become familiar with
the experience of each of the pilot university projects in a number
of critical areas. These seminars would be held annually on



- 83 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 14
different project university campus locations and would focus on
the following areas:
(i) equipment procurement, technician training and maintenance
lssues;
(ii) faculty and staff reallocation issues;
(iii) academic specialty reorganization and reform;
(iv) income generation at the university level; and
(v) final reports on pilot project progress and impact on
individual institution's ninth Five-Year Plans.
(c) strengthen University fiscal management. This seminar will focus
on the organization of pilot project university's fiscal management
and their plans to strengthen and reform these plans. Chinese
experts from key universities with success in reforming their
fiscal management plans, especially those who have had previous
support from World Bank university development projects, will be
invited as experts to this seminar. This seminar will be organized
by the Hubei Institute of Technology and offered in the second year
of the project.
(d) strengthen laboratory management. This seminar will be offered in
two stages:
Stage I - in the first year of the project before the scientific
equipment arrives, it will focus on issues such as equipment
installation, testing and acceptance, efficient organization of test and
analysis centers, setting or equipment use fees, and training of
technicians.
Stage II - in the third year of the project after the equipment has
arrived, it will focus on issues such as maintenance and repair,
use of equipment by non-university organizations, replacement
and/or modification of equipment, increasing hours or instrument
use, purchase oi spare parts and consumable, etc.
This seminar could best be held on the campus of or with the
experienced leaders from laboratories which received laboratory
management training in the World Bank-supported Provincial University
Development Project.
(e) strengthen university library management. In order to assist in
the acquisition, cataloguing and circulation of project-financed
and other library books, a seminar will be organized with the
assistance of a national level, key university (Peking University?,



- 84 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 14
Xian Jiaotong University?, Wuhan University?). This seminar will
also look at the problem of coordination of departmental libraries,
issues to be considered in automating a library, etc. This seminar
will be offered in the first year of the project.
III. PLANNING. FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
A. Special Studies
13.       Special studies will be financed by the project in order to
investigate:
(a) patterns of rural primary school repetition and wastage, and socio-
economic factors associated with dropout and repetition;
(b) the qualifications and certification of minban teachers; and
(c) girls' attendance in schools.
14.       In each of these studies, provincial level educational research
units in all six project provinces, working with a national level educational
research institute, will gather and evaluate the necessary data. The national
level research institute will assist in structuring the studies in order to
provide a national comparative analysis as well as provide training to the
provincial level unit in data gathering and analysis. At the end of the
studies, the national level institute will organize a meeting to which all
project provinces will be invited to discuss the policy implications arising
from the studies. In Guizhou Province, the studies will be carried out in
cooperation with Ziger Fund, an NGO already working in these areas.
B. Management Information System (MIS)
15.       In order to strengthen the capacity for the provinces to manage
both the basic and higher education sectors, the project will finance staff
training, MIS software development, and other support activities at the
county, prefectural, provincial levels. In order to accomplish this, the
project will finance technical assistance from Shanghai Education Bureau and
an international education research institution.
16.       The overall plan for this component will be the gradual assumption
of virtually all MIS responsibilities by provincial education research
institutions by the end of the project. During the first two years of the
project, the effort will be to adopt the existing MIS software so that it may
be used in remote counties and to provide staff training.
17.       It is expected that by the project's third year, the provincial
research institutions will assume the major role in the collection of data and
that at that point, the Shanghai Education Bureau will limit its role to
giving advice and continuing staff training.



- 85 -
ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 14
18.       Likewise, the possible involvement of the international education
research institution will be primarily at the start of the project in
providing assistance for the development of software and selection of adequate
equipment, advice on evaluating the data gathered, and participation in any
training events.
19.       The components on the MIS activity will include:
(a) development of MIS computer software modules appropriate for basic
education in rural areas. This development work will be done by
the Shanghai Education Bureau and SEdC. The development work will
be done in close coordination with provincial level education
research institutions. Such modules should be ready to be used by
the provinces by the start of the third year of the project, and
will include the performance indicators questionnaire needed to
evaluate the project;
(b) staff training by the Chinese national level institution during the
first three years of the project aimed at developing an independent
capacity at the provincial level, education research institutions.
This staff training will be by the start of the third year of the
project for staff of provincial education research institutions to
gather and assess education data not only relevant to the
assessment of the implementation of the project, but in all areas
of basic education.
(c)  intern training abroad for staff of provincial education research
institutions from all six project provinces at an organization such
as UNESCO/IIEP during the first two years of the project so that
they can take the lead in assuming, at the provincial level, the
gathering and evaluating educational data necessary for making
policy decision on the ninth Five-Year Plan.
C. Student Assessment
20.       In order to assist provincial educational authorities in
strengthening their capacity to systematically evaluate academic achievement,
the project will finance an activity which will train provincial academic
evaluation experts; advise in the analysis to test results, and prepare long-
term plans to measure education achievement in the project provinces.
21.       This activity will be led by the Central Institute of Education
Research with the possible technical assistance of an international academic
evaluation organization such as the Educational Testing Service (ETS) or the
International Assessment of Education (IAE).
22.       In addition, this activity will finance:



- 86 -
ANNEX 10
Page 9 of 14
(a)  dissemination of the results of the efforts to establish provincial
(national) level academic achievement tests;
(b)  a study tour for provincial authorities to countries in Asia,
Europe, and/or North America where academic achievement testing
has been developed to an advanced level (12 persons for two
months); and
(c)  training abroad in student assessment.  Training abroad will be
provided for three persons from each of the six provincial
educational research institutes involved in student assessment
activities. This one-year study and intern program will be
designed to train Chinese educational researchers at the provincial
level in the collection, analysis, and evaluation of education
student assessment data.
23.       The intent of this program is to produce researchers who will be
able to take part in the analysis and evaluation of data gathered in student
evaluations, and thus provide a trained cored of educational researchers at
the provincial level who will be able to sustain the provincial student
assessment and evaluation process needed to aid in the policy-making process
at the local level.
D. Workshops on Project Implementation
24.       To develop and strengthen project implementation at the provincial
level, as well as to transmit the experience of the successful implementation
of previous World Bank supported education projects, the SEdC, Foreign
Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and provincial FILO's will organize and run
several workshops. These workshops will train provincial, prefectural and
county education authorities, as well as those in the higher education pilot
projects. The workshops will be organized nationally or provincially as
appropriata.
25.       The areas covered by the project implementation workshops will be:
(a) administration of project implementation units;
(b)  bidding and procurement procedures, especially in writing
specifications, reviewing bids, negotiating both domestic and
international contracts for goods and services, receiving, testing
and ac4:epting domestic and foreign equipment, etc.;
(c)  accounting procedures;
(d)  nroject management, especially at sub-provincial levels which have
not administered World Bank projects before; and



- 87 -
ANNEX 10
Page 10 of 14
(e)  construction management, especially to assure quality control of
school construction and repair. It may be appropriate for the SEdC
to request the assistance of an engineering university (perhaps,
the Huazhong University of Science and Technology) in the
organization and running of these specific workshops.
E. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Panel
26.       A Chinese Experts Panel, consisting of:  (1) a basic education
bureau director; or (2) a director of a research institute; or (3) a director
of provincial FILO, as well as a representative from a normal school and from
a Beijing research institute, will be organized to:
(a) assist in reviewing implementation of the project through:
(i) annually reviewing performance of "action plans"; and
(ii) showing if any county has problems and bring these problems to
the attention of provincial authorities and, if necessary, the
SEdC and the World Bank.
(b) make site visits to a sample of counties, and at least once a year,
to review progress of the implementation and discuss issues that
arise;
(c) review terms of reference for the technical assistance for the
project;
(d) identify, review and select the consultants and consulting agencies
for the project technical assistance;
(e) monitor the project implementation;
(f) review criteria for fellowships and study tours and approve the
final selection of candidates; and
(g) review terms of reference, monitor implementation, comment on
progress reports and assist in dissemination of findings for
special studies.



- 88 -
ANNEX 10
Page 11 of 14
General Assumptions
A. Cost per local consultant (RMB)
daily fee:                                                      150
per diem:                                                        60
total daily cost:                                               210
transportation (w/in country):                                1,000
transportation (w/in province):                                 100
B. Cost per foreign consultant ($)
daily fee:                                                      250
per diem:                                                       150
total daily cost:                                               400
transportation:                                               3,500
C.  Cost per Chinese participant (RMB)
per diem:                                                        50
transportation (w/in country)                                   800
transportation (w/in province)                                  100
D. Cost per seminar (RMB)
supporting cost/day                                             350
material cost per person                                        350
E. Cost per study tour ($)
per diem:                                                       100
transportation:                                               2,000
other expenditures:                                             900
one person for 3 weeks:                                       5,000
F.  Training Cost (RMB)                                            4,000
graduate student for one year
(domestic training)



-89 -
ANNEX 10
Page 12 of 14
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Cost of Technical Assistance
TOTAL    Sub-total  Sub-total   Guizhou         Hubei      Hunan    Shaanxi       Sbanxi    Yunnan
StIC EDUCATION                                   $        RMB           $          S            S           S         S           $          S
A. Spoclal Studnit ristod to salon pun.
1. GanOuAi                                  60,000     312,000                  10,000     10,000      10,000     10,000      10,000     10,000
(Unit cost of $10,000 per provb,oe)
2i Reviuing muanitetrarng                   60,300      312,000                 10,000     10,000      10,000     10,000      10,000     10,000
(Unit cost of $10,000 pcr provinr)
S. Smdnhw
1. Muitigraded Education (cuoid. prov.: Yunnan)  86,407  158,340    56,700      14,401     14,401      14,401     14,401      14,401     14,401
(3 alnar with emi of 25 pathipnta ad
4 lo col ornd   3 fotig conri for 7 dys)
2. Minority Education                       24,681       24,930     20,000       8,227                  8,227                             8,227
(3 prov. with 5 partkiputs esch for 7 days
and 5 In'l putidptnt at SS,000 eaD)
3. Bilingual Edualion                       94,469      103,770     75,000     47,235                                                    47,235
(3 amnara in 2 provw. with .b of 10 patu,
2 loca comWtant. nd S i t'l partIpants
at #5,000 eath for 7 day.)
C. Workshops
Multidisciptlinary aco teacIng           220,478      484,380    129,600      36,746      36,746     36,746     36,746      36,746     36,746
(3 workshops for eaca provinoc with
20 prteipnta nd 3 Chineo4 cownutw
aend onr int'l consultant for oath workshop,
asu itit'l COlY works for two provinn)
D. Study Tours
(unit ooet for 3 vks/prson: $5,000)
1. Muitlgraded Education                   120,000                 120,000     20,000      20,000     20,000      20,000     20,000      20,000
(4 persnso/provinct for 6 provlno. for 3
awko in Aslo/Auttrullt)
2. Minority EductIon                        60,000                  60,000      20,000                 20,000                            20,000
(4 perool/provlnc for 3 provinco. for 3
ewko stbrord)
3. Blingual EducAtIon                       30,000                  30,000      15,000                                                   15,000
(3 poraontsprovian  for 2 provino tofr 3
wes In Aain/AuatraIa)
4. ScioncoTeaching                         120,000                 120,000      20,000     20,000      20,000     20,000      20,000     20,000
(4 personlprovinca for 6 provinxte for 3
wacis abroad)
Sub-touia                                  876,035   1,395,440    611,300    201,609    111,148    139,375    111,148    111,148    201,609



- 90 -
ANNEX 10
Page 13 of 14
It. HIGHER EDUCATION                      TOTAL       Subtotb  Sub-totatl  f3uizhou     Huboi    Hunan    Shataxi    Shanxi    Yunnutn
S         RMB          $          $           $         $          $          $          $
A. Project VUnatliea TraInIn'*
D. Aua Progm  Report
I. Netloealw  l                           46.904     250,000                 7,817      7,817      7,817      7,817      7,817       7,817
(at cort of 50,000 RMB per ywr)
2. IntenAtlailval                        250,000                250,000    41,667      41,667     41,667      41,667     41,667     41,667
(O*. lhbrnatl omiunt aslt. thc
Cbine rceudch mait for euvalon:
at cot of 50,0AM  por year)
C. Final Report                            2,814       15,000                  469        469        469        469         469        469
D. SenLna for detninatlon of 1ewo
t Experle.eaofothrunl v.onWBProject       27,851      65,830     15,500      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642       4,642      4,642
2. Plot Projt                             27,851      65,830      15,500     4,642       4,642     4,642       4,642      4,642      4,642
3. FPi"M   ment                           27,851       65,830     15,500      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642
4. Lab Mmagant
Pha" 1.                                  27,851      65,830     15,500      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642
ph.ll.                                   27,851      65,830     15,500      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642
S. Library Maet                           27,851      65,830      15,500     4,642      4,642      4,642      4,642       4,642      4,642
(6 saminaft with nch of 30 p rtipatt cnd
2 ChWIe. complIant. for 2 woit. end
I int'l oonsultamt for 4 weeks for 2 provs.)
S. Planring for higter education teform
1. Study Tout to Autrells cnd UK          60,000                 60,000     10,000      10,000    10,000      10,000     10,000     10,000
(Il0pcrso for 3weeks at $6,000 of cach)
2. Intem trdlning                         24,000                  24,000     4,000       4,000     4,000       4,000      4,000      4,000
(2 perwc for one,year in USA)
3. Reac h onlabor market                  79,780     260,000      31,000     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297
(at coat of 260,00RMB  I int l
oxultant for 2 tini at I month cach)
4. Traitung Plann.                        79,780     260,000     31,000      13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297
(at cot of 260,000RMB + I I 'l
consultat for 2 tknca at I monbth cad)
5. Seminrtoexamimeexperknce               19,345      35,950      12,600      3,224     3,224       3,224      3,224      3,224      3,224
(4 pettlipants/provlace for S provinoa
ed 2 foreign oos for 7 days,
fundsto IO unvernltle, S40,OOO/univ.)  395,122   1,040,000    200,000     65,854     65,854     65,854      65,854     65,854     6',854
6.Speealstudyanquslityofhlghereducatlon   79,780     260,000      31,000     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297     13,297
(at ot of 260,000RMB + I lnt'l
conaultant for 2 t*be at I month cacd)
F. Chinema Sper Pane                     103,637     235,250     59,500      17,273     17,273     17,273     17,273     17,273     17,273
(5 paldipaa, 3 Chin peer reviewrs
nd om int'l onsulta for 21 days)
Sub-tot                                 1,308,269   2,751,180    792,100    218,045    218,045    218,04i   218,045    218,045    218,045
* Note: For unlenlkir of the ptojot, theTA will be agfaad by the review pane durIng ft meeing in 1992.



- 91 -
ANNEX 10
Page 14 of 14
Ill. Planin. FPanoia rd M w2agement      TOTAL    Sub-lotal  Sub-total   Guizbou        Hubei      Hunan    Shaafi       Sha=i    Yuwn
$       RMB          $           $          $          $          S          $          $
A. Spedel Studies
I  Repltleaesddrod-out                   300,000     959,400    120,000     50,000     50,000     50,O0     50,000      50,000     50,000
(Unt oot of $50,000 per provic
emume 60% oost we lowca)
2. Mlmba Teacl,
(UIit oot of .50,000 per provIc)        300,000   1.599,000                50,000     50,000     50,000     50,000     S0,000     50,000
B. Training for MIS
I. Developtost of aoftwee
(3 chl   oeultnanuld I lnt com.          39,218      43,800     31,000      6,536      6,536      6,536      6,536      6,536      6,536
for I rM.h in etprovbtce for 2 yer)
2. Staff training                          15,310      81,600                 2,552      2,552      2,552      2,552      2,552      2,552
(2 Cblinaco. for 2 months In te
province for  et three year. of te proje)
3. Inrter hftgbromd In MIS                60,000                  60,000     10,000     10,000     10,000     10,000     10,000     10,000
(2 IAtemprovtnoe for 3 weeks abroad)
C. Student Asse.ment
I. Dat cectLon land anjy                 240,000   1,279,200                40,000     40,000     40,000     40,000      40,000     40,000
(at cot of 5t0,Q0o/provin  for 4 yer)
2. Seatna for traIng
(4 amltnarwithe htof30patipant +3        61,723     280,480      9,100     10,287     10,287     10,287     10,287     10,287      10,287
Chins Oa. asd I intI oom. for 2 weeb)
3. TrninglReerch
(3 perolprovince for I yerr In abroad
at unit oot of S20,000)                 360,000                360,000     60,000     60,000     60,000     60,000     60,000     60,000
D. Worbhop on proje  iplmntpttlot
(at county klvel)
I. Admnlttlon of pro-lmptlwattonat       162,268     562,6SfJ    56,700     27,045     27,045     27,045      27,045     27,045     27,045
2. Bldding nd procrement                  162,268     562,68(     56,700     27,045     27,045     27,045     27,045     27,045     27,045
3. AooDuntlg                             162,268     562,680     56,700      27,045    27,045      27,045     27,045     27,045     27,045
4. Projct  ngeent                       162,268     562,680     56,700     27,045     27,045      27,045     27,045     27,045     27,045
S. ConstructIon manangment               162,268     562,680     56,700      27,045    27,045      27,045     27,045     27,045     27,045
(3 manitara/opkc during the proj. year for
each province with 25 particIpants and 3
Cbie owls. for I week Nd I Int'l cons
for 2 wts for 2 prove.)
E. Projet monitoring aMOevatluaton panel  56,285     300,000                  9,381      9,381      9,381      9,381      9,381      9,381
(at unit cort of l0,0602,4IB/ptovino/yeir
of tto aS )
Sub-totat                               2,243,87C   7,356,880    863,60t    373,979    373,979    373,979    373,979    373,979    373,979
TOTAL                                   4,428,180  11,503,500  2,267,000    793,633    703,172    731,399    703,172    703,172    793,633
'Now: For Section A mad D, It wee agreed tat if suitable Chim  experw are found, ttere Is no need for Intenuitional cxpertis.



- 92-           AEX 11
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEN_ELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Teacher Training Programs
1.        Teacher Training will be geared towards improving the qualifications
of both gongban and minban teachers in project counties. A large network of
training institutions already exist in the project provinces. These
institutions will provide the required courses as follows:
(a) Certificate Training for Primary School Teachers. Teachers who are
not certified will attend full-time or part time training (on the
job-correspondence and TV courses) required for teacher
certification.
(b) Multi-grade Tear,:hing. Teachers who are in multi-graded classes or in
one-classroom schools will attend practical training courses where
they will have the opportunity to observe how multi-graded teaching
is carried-out. The Hunan Institute of Multi-graded Teaching will
prepare the training program and distribute to other provinces.
I
(c) Bilingual Teachers. In Guizhou and Hunan bilingual teachers will
attend training courses that will facilitate the introduction of
bilingual materials and methods. The courses have been designed by
the Guizhou Institute of Research and will be implemented by
prefectural training schools coordinated by these institutes.
(d) Laboratorv Training for Science Teachers. Science teachers in
primary and secondary schools will attend coursed offered in key
schools to learn to perform the experiments required in the new
science curriculum, and to use the equipment provided by the
project.
(e)  Cntinuous Education.  Teachers who are already certified will be
invited to attend workshops and seminars in the areas they teach, to
get acquainted with the new curriculum and new textbooks.
(f) School Administrators. School principals (sometimes referred to as
school masters) will be invited to attend workshops and seminars
that will allow them to improve their school managing practices and
supervision skills.
(g) Other Staff Training. Training courses and symposiums will be
organized during the project in respond to perceived needs. The
specific programs are unJer preparation and will be approved by the
Bank before their implementation. The aim will be to improve the
quality of classroom teaching in specific subjects: reading,
mathematics, etc and to provide teachers with support needed in the
introduction of new syllabuses, new textbooks and new teaching
methodologies.



93 -         ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
Hunan Center for Training and Research
in Multi-traded Teaching
2.        In Hunan like in other mountain regions of China the number of
multi-graded classrooms is increasing due to population control measures and
rural-urben migration. The Multi-graded Classroom Teaching Research Institute
was created in 1990 to develop multi-graded teaching practices, carry out
research on the best multi-graded practices, train teachers and further
develop materials required in multi-graded classrooms. The center has already
help teachers who are in multi-grad3d classrooms to analyze their experiences,
excharge information and start to disseminate good practices. The project
will assist the Center to:
(a) systematically carry-out research on multi-graded teaching practices
in other countries and other places in China;
(b) visit multi-graded classrooms and observe and document good
practices;
(c) develop materials for students and teachers in multi-graded
classrooms;
(d) develop training coursed for multi-graded teachers;
(e) train staff from prefectural and county education institutes and
help then to implement training programs for multi-graded teachers;
(f) expand the buildings and procure the equipment required for the
center (about 1,500 sq. mt of space and equipment worth 80,000
yuan); and
(g) procure the furniture, library books and materials required for the
proposed training and seminars (31,000 yuan for furniture, 70,000
yuan for the library and 80000 yuan for the computing and language
equipment).
3.        The Center has a training department associated with the First
Nor:nal School of Hunan, and a research department associated with the Hunan
Education Science Research Institute. It has a full time staff of about 10
professionals and part time staff from the associated in the centers.



Page 3 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
Teacher Training Programs: Quantity
Number of Teachers Will be Trained
Training Category            Guizhou       Hubei     Human     Shaanxi     Shanxi      Yunnan
Primary Education
Certificate                   1,218        1,110       750f     1,040        1,150      1,870
2 50oP
On Job                        2,846        2,460     2,500f     4,200       3,069       3,000
7,500P
Multi-grade                   1,925        1,700       825f     2,100       6,398       5,000
2,475P
Bilingual                     3,100                                                     6,000
Laboratory                    2,384        2,125     1,400      3,696       3,030       1,830
Continuous Education          2,267          375                1,000       3,000         750
School Masters                             2,250     1,334
Other                                        350                  500          700
Secondary Education
Certificate                     NA           355       325f       400         650         800
975P
On Job                                     2,000     1,250f     1,000        1,300        500
3, 75oP
Laboratory                                 1,036       840        950       1,300         400
Continuous Education                         250                  125         600         125
SchooL Masters                               359       418
Other                                        250                  250         350
f: full-time training
p: part-time training



- 95  -                   EX  11
Page 4 of 4
CH NU
EDPCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
Teacher Training Programs: Unit Cost
Unit Cost for Teacher Trainin  (in jYuan)
Training Category             Guizhou       Hubei     Hunan      Shaanxi      Shanxi     Yunnan
Primary Education
Certificate                    1,025        1,025      14,00f     1,025        1,025      1,025
876P
on Job                           400          400        200f       400          400        400
loop
Multi-prade                      400          400        300f       400          400        400
loop
jlinguatl                        400                                                        400
Laboratory                       400          400       400         400          400        400
Continuous Education             150          150                   150          150         150
School Masters                                600       600
Other                                       2,831                 2,500        1,710      1,275
Secondary Education
Certificate                       NA        1,276     2,400f      1,275        1,275      1,275
876P
On Job                                        525        200f       525          525        525
loop
Laboratory                                    400       400         400          400        400
Continuous Education                          150                   150          150         150
School Masters                                600       600
Other                                         900                   900        1,346
f: full-time training
p: part-time training
NA = Guizhou has no secondary.....



- 96 -              ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 7
CHI
EDUCAIJON DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
Criteria for Selection of Pilot Projects for the
Higher Education Component
1.        The aim of the higher education component is to increase efficiency
in universities and colleges by assisting development projects including
internal reorganization and restructuring, mergers between universities or
other efforts to improve utilization of resources in higher education. It is
expected that projects designed to Improve efficiency in pilot universities
will serve as models for other universities in participating provinces. The
universities included in the project will therefore be required to evaluate
the success of their measures in increasing efficiency and to participate in a
program of seminars designed to:
(a)  draw on experience gained ir other universities in the province that
have been assisted by World Bank education projects; and
(b)  share the lessons gained from their own experience with other higher
education institutions in the project provinces and other provinces.
2.        Pilot projects will be selected by a Review Committee, composed of
Chinese and World Bank members. Selection will be based on the following six
criteria:
A. Objectives are appropriate, in terms of:
(i) consistency with national policy on higher education, as
formulated by SEdC;
(ii) provincial priorities for the development and improved efficiency
of higher education to meet the manpower needs of economic
development.
B.  The project is feasible, as demonstrated by such indicators as:
(iii) approval by all responsible authorities including SEdC and other
relevant state Ministries and bureaus, (i.e. planning, finance,
labor and personnel) the relevant commissions/departments at the
provincial and municipal/prefectural level and agreement at the
institutional level;
(iv)  a rational management structure;
(v) realistic plans for achieving any necessary staff changes through
training, reassignments, new appointments, retirement, etc.; and
(vi)  identification of potential problems and difficulties, and
capacity to solve them.



97 -              ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 7
C. Exgpcted Benefits of the project are significant, as measured in terms of
such indicators as:
(i) Internal Efficiency:
student-staff ratio (student per staff member);
student-teacher ratio (students per teacher)
teachers as % of total staff;
personnel cost per student;
teaching cost per &uudent;
total recurrent cost per student;
teaching cost as % of total recurrent cost;
utilization rate for classrooms/laboratories;
(ii) External Efficiency:
Number and average size of specialiLms.
Job placement of graduates (% of graduates placed in jobs related
to their training).
Income generated from non-budgetary sources, by type of activity
and use of funds.
Introduction of new programs, courses or activities in response to
labor market needs.
(iii)  Quality
Qualifications of teaching staff.
Staff development programs to improve teaching quality.
Percent of recommended experiments able to be perforined.
Library books per student.
D. Cost of the proposed investment are realistic and can be financed, as
judged on the basis of:
(i)  total investment required for:
a. reorganization/restructuring/merger;
b. upgrading of facilities; and
c. expansion of enrollment.
(ii)  contributions by provincial and local authorities and other
sources of income to share the capital cost of the investment and
to provide for future recurrent expenditure to operate and
maintain the new facilities; and
(iii)  cost of investment in relation to current value of assets and
number of students.



-98 -                ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 7
E. The relationship between exe6cted benefits and colts is favorable as
judged by:
the relative magnitude of the costs of the project and
expected improvement in efficiency (e.g. The internal rate of
return, the estimated pay-back period of the investment.)
F. Progects will pgrvide generalizable lessons for other institutions and
Drovinces. And will Drovide an approRriate balance between different types
of restructuring. including:
(i) internal re-organization;
(ii) merger of similar specialized institutions, offering similar or
over-lapping specialties;
(iii) merger of different complementary types of institution to create a
broader, more comprehensive university;
(iv) consolidation or completion of a merger that has already been
started;
(v) transfer of activities from one institution to another (including
closure or reclassification of institutions or departments); and
(vi) staff development programs designed. to facilitate better
utilization of staff, or other projects designed to improve
efficiency.
Note: Selection will be based on all six criteria, and on a combination of
indicators. No single indicator will be used in isolation.



-99 -                ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 7
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
Guidelines for Provincial Proposals
for Higher Education Component
Each province should submit a proposal to SEdC and to the World Bank
(through the Resident Mission) for assistance for restructuring and efficiency
improvements in higher education. The proposal should cover the following
main areas:
1.        Present structure of Higher Education in the province (Number of
institutions, by type and specialization, and by administrative
responsibility, number of students, average student-staff and student-teacher
ratios, recurrent and teaching cost per student, etc.
2.        Future Development of Higher Education in the province during
1990-2000. Planned number of institutions in Eighth and Ninth plan periods,
indicating type, number of students, average student-staff and student-teacher
ratios, recurrent and capital budgets. Provinces should indicate those
institutions that will have the highest priority for expansion, strengthening
of academic programs and investment in buildings and equipment.
3.        Proposals for increasing efficiency including:
(a) internal reorganization of departments, specialties etc.;
(b) mergers between institutions;
(c) transfer of activities from one institution to another;
(d) closure of institutions or departments;
(e) establishment of new departments and specialties; and
(f) other projects designed to improve utilization of resources and
increase efficiency.
4.        Distribution of planned student numbers between proposed pilot
project and other institutions.
5.        Future Employment prospect in province, including estimates of
future manpower requirements, demand and supply of qualified manpower,
specifying key shortages or surpluses of manpower in present labor market
conditions.
6.        Investment plan for Restructuring Estimates of costs of required
investment in pilot projees in the province as a whole, by purpose of
expenditure; distinguishing where possible between:
(a) investment necessary for proposed mergers and other restructuring;
(b) investment required for upgrading of facilities;



- 100 -                ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 7
(c)  investment required for expansion of student numbers; and
(d) future recurrent expenditure required to maintain and operate the
investment.
Finanging PLnp
7.        Estimates of planned contributions to the capital and recurrent
costs of the proposed pilot projects by provincial and local levels of
government.



- 101 -               ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 7
ZDUCATION DLVEL0PMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
Guidelines for Institutional Proposals
for the Higher Education Component
Each university or other higher education institution should submit a
proposal to the provincial authorities, for submission to the SEdC and the
World Bank. The proposals will consist of two parts:
Part 1.  Descripei.n of proposed project
The description of the proposal (e.g. merger or other reorganization,
should cover the following main topics:
1.        Present structure of institution (Type of specialty, level of
administrative responsibility, student numbers, number and qualifications of
teachers and other staff, student-staff and student-teacher ratios, unit
costs, etc.).
2.        Proposal for improving efficiency and its objectives.
3.        Current status of proposal.  Has any proposed merger or
reorgaiiization been approved by the relevant authorities?
4.        Proposed management structure after reorganization.
5.        Planned student numbers, 1990-2000, taking account of national and
provincial policies on higher education.
6.        Planned Employment/Job Assignments of Graduates.
7.        Expected Benefits of re-organization, in terms of its effects on:
(a) internal effisiency;
(b) external efficiency; and
(c) Quality.
Institutions should indicate how they intend to measure and monitor these
benefits.
8.        Estimated Costs of capital and recurrent expenditure required for:
(a) merger or reorganization;
(b) upgrading of facilities;
(c) future expansion of student numbers; and
(d) future operation and maintenance of new facilities.



102 -NNEX 12
Page 7 of 7
9.        Estimated income, including regular budget and additional
(non-budget) income by source of funds.
10.       Proposals for re-allocating staff and other resources after
reorganization.
11.       Expected problems associated with re-organization, and how these
might be overcome.
Part 2. Action glan
This should consist of:
12.       Timetable of the proposed reorganization.
13.       Targets and Indicators for 1990-95 and 2000, in the form of Tables
1-16 (attached). These tables require alternative estimates, based on two
sets of assumptions:
(a) student numbers approved by the provincial authorities for the
Eighth plan; and
(b) desired rate of growth of student numbers after proposed investment
(assuming approval by state and provincial authorities and
availability of resources).
Analysis and Assessment of Proposals
The information presented in the provincial and institutional proposals
will be summarized in a standard format by Beijing University, to assist the
process of review and selection.
During the preparation and appraisal of the project, the Review Committee
will examine all proposals and assess them on the basis of the six criteria
listed above.
Note: The institutional proposal should be in both Chinese and English
language versions.



- 103 -
ANtIE 13
Page 1 of 11
EDUCa1IQN DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVfTNCES PROJECT
Executive Summaries of Project       itutJons
JISHOU UNIVERSITY
Jishou University is located in an ethnic minority area--West Hunan
Miao Nationality and Tujia Nationality Autonomous Prefecture, which is
relatively backward in social and economic development. It has 14 specialties
with an enrollment of 1,791 students. The University assumes the mission to
serve the economic, social and cultural development of the minority people by
training teachers for ethnic minority schools and training technical personnel
for local industries and agriculture. However, in comparison with other
universities in Chinia, the institutional conditions of Jishou University are
relatively poor. It is short of instructiornal facilities, laboratory
equipment, and library books. The poor institutional conditions hinder the
institute in raising instructional quality on the one hand, and hinder it in
improving its internal efficiency and exter-'al efficiency on the other hand.
The proposed World Bank loan project is: (a) to improve the teaching
equipment, facilities, and library collections to raise the instructional
quality; and (b) to reorganize its specialties to improve both internal
efficiency and external efficiency to better address the local manpower needs.
Indicators of ExDected ImRrovement of Internal Efficiency Over Time
1991       1993         1995        1997        2000
Enrollment
(full-time equivalent)      2,126       2,595       2,912        2,985      3,300
% of faculty members            328         375          366         369         365
Average teaching load
(hours per week)              4.9         6.1         6.9          7.1         7.9
% of total staff                730         768          758         764         761
Student/teacher ratio         7.2:1       8.4:1       9.5:1        9.8:1      11.5:1
Student/total staff ratio    3.3:1        3.9:1       4.6:1        4.8:1       5.5:1
Classroom utilization
rate (X)                       42          44          46           48          50
Laboratory utilization                                                    (per week)
rate (X)                       23          27          31           33         35
(per week)
Unit recurrent cost
(in Yuan)                   1,780       1,570       1,470        1,420      1,360
X of unit cost for
personnel expenditure          50          49           46          45          44
% of unit cost used for
instructional expenditure      42          44          46           47          51
X of unit cost used for
administration and
maintenance                     8           7            8           8           4



- 104 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 11
Proposed Project for
Completion of Merger and ImRrovement of Institutional
Conditions and Instructional Quality of
Hubei Institute of Technology
This is a special project. Hubei Institute of Technology is on its
half-way in the process of completing its merger. It is an engineering
oriented institution with an enrollment of 3,066 students divided into 17
specialties. The institute is the result of a merger of Hubei Light Industry
College and Hubei Agriculture Machinery College. The merger took place in
1985 to: (a) achieve the economies of scale; (b) reorganize internally the
newly merged university to improve both internal efficiency and external
efficiency; (c) expand the enrollment to address the manpower needs by the
provincial industries; and (d) improve the institutional conditions (school
building, facilities and equipment) to raise the instructional quality. In
order to achieve these objectives of the merger, the institute needs extra
financial support, for the previously planned funds in the provincial budget
are not sufficient to support the institute to complete the merger because of
the high inflation rates in recent years and other reasons.
Thus institute proposes a project for World Bank financing to speed
up the completion and realization of the objectives of the merger. The merger
project has been approved by Hubei Provincial Government, Hubei Provincial
Education Commission. It has also been officially approved by State Education
Commission of China (SEdC).
INDICATORS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OVER TIME
1991      1993       1995     1997    2000
Enrollment
(full-time equivalent)             3,700      4,500     5,000      5,000   5,000
# of faculty members                  544       592        640       703      777
Average teaching load (hours
per week)                             6.6       7.4        7.6     7.5      7.5
# of total staff                    1,244     1,397     1,557      1,712   1,881
Student/teacher ratio                   6.8       7.6        7.8     7.8      7.8
Student/total staff ratio               3.0       3.2        3.2     3.2      3.2
Classroom utilization rate (X)         55        56         57        58       60
Laboratory utilization rate (X)        22        22         24        26       28
Unit recurrent cost (in Yuan)       3,315     3,426      2,949     2,800   2,703
X of unit cost used for
personnel expenditure                31.4      31.5       31.8      36    39.5
X of unit cost used for
instructional expenditure           39.8       39.8      39.5       31    25.9
Z of unit cost used for
administration and maintenance       28.8      28.7       28.7      33    34.6



- 105 
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 11
Proposed Internal Reorganization of
Yunnan Institute of Technology
Yunnan Institute of Technology is an engineering-oriented
institution with an enrcllment of 3,564 students divided into 22 specialties.
The average size of each specialty is only 162 students. The over
specialization tends to result in low utilization of specialized equipment and
low teaching load of faculty members, and the students are locked into a
narrow specialization which tend to make them less flexible and less adaptive
to technologically induced changes and labor market needs. The proposed
project is: (a) to reorganize internally the institute to improve both
internal efficiency and external efficiency, such as broadening the
specialties and reducing the number of specialties from 22 to 17; and (b) to
improve the teaching conditions (school building, facilities and equipment) to
raise the instructional quality.
Indicators of Expected Improvement of Internal Efficiency Over Time
1991     1993     1995      1997      2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)   3,456    4,184    5,003    5,484    5,725
# of faculty members                    622      638       674      716       688
Av,rage teaching load (hours per
week)                                 4.7      5.6       6.3      6.5       7.0
# of total staff                      1,473    1,482    1,593    1,700    1,709
Student/teacher ratio                 5.6:1    6.6:1    7.4:1    7.7:1    8.4:1
Student/total staff ratio             2.3:1    2.8:1    3.1:1    3.1:1    3.4:1
Classroom utilization rate (X)           50       51        52       52        53
Laboratory utilization rate (Z)          10       12        15       17        20
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)           305    3.055    3.065      3.27      3.49
X of unit cost used for personal
expenditure                            46     39.6        36       35        34
X of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                     32     37.4        41     4.35        46
X of unit cost used for adminis-
tration and maintenance                22       23        23     21.5        20



- 106 -
ANEX 13
Page 4 of 11
Pronosed Merger of
Shanxi TacheXr LUniversity and
.Linfen Tgachers Training College
Shanxi Teacher University is a pre-service teacher training
institution. It has 12 specialties with an enrollment of 4,507 students.
Linfen Teachers College is also a pre-service (two or three year programs)
teacher training institution with an enrollment of 606 students divided into 6
specialties. The two institutions are located close to each other in Linfen
City. The proposed project is: (a) to merge the two higher education
institutions on one campus to achieve the economies of scale; (b) to
reorganize internally the newly merged university to improve both internal
efficiency and external efficiency; and (c) to improve the conditions (school
building, facilities and equipment) to raise the instructional quality.
The proposed project has been approved by Shanxi Provincial
Government, Shanxi Provincial Education Commission and Linfen Prefectural
Government. It has also been approved by State Education Commission of China
(SEdC). The two institutions started enrolling students together in 1990.
Indicators of Expected Improvement of Internal Efficiency Over Time
1991     1993     1995      1997     2000
Enrollment (full-time equival.ent)    5,206    5,280    5,343    5,507    6,165
# of faculty members                     652      653       650      660       680
Average teaching load (hours per
week)                                    4        6         6        6         6
# of total staff                       1,500    1,501    1,498    1,508    1,558
Student/teacher ratio                   7.98     8.08      8.22     8.34      9.07
Student/total staff ratio               3.47     3.52      3.57     3.65      3.96
Classroom utilization rate
(hours weekly)                         55        55       63        63       66
Laboratory utilization rate
(hours weekly)                          32       32       40        42       48
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)          2,710    2,700    2,600    2,500    2,400
% of unit cost used for
personnel expenditure                  39%      39%       37%      36%       36%
X of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                  27.3%       28%       30%      31%       34%
X of unit cost used for admin-
istration and maintenance           33.7%       33%       33%      33%       30%



- 107 -
ANNEX
Page 5 of 11
Prososed Internal Reorganization of
Guighou Institute of Technology
Guizhou Institute of Technology is an engineering-oriented
institution. It has 26 specialties and enrolls 3,489 students. The average
size of each specialty is only 134 students. The over specialization tends to
result in low utilization of specialized equipment and low teaching load for
faculty members, and the students are locked into a narrow specialization
which tends to make them less flexible and less adaptive to technologically
induced changes and labor market needs. The proposed project is: (a) to
reorganize internally the institute to improve both internal efficiency and
external efficiency, such as broadening the specialties and reducing the
number of specialties from 26 to 20; and (b) to improve the teaching
conditions (school building, facilities and equipment) to raise the
instructional quality.
INDICATORS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OVER TIME
1991     1993      1995     1997      2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)    3,542    4,071    4,686    4,980    5,422
# of faculty members                     684      672       661      657       650
Average teaching load (hours/week)       3.7      4.1      5.29     5.47       5.9
# of total staff                       1,646    1,562    1,478    1,482    1,498
Student/teacher ratio                    5.2      6.3       7.3      8.4        10
Student/total staff ratio                2.2      2.7       3.3      3.7       4.3
Classroom utilization rate (%)          71.7     75.7      79.3     83.3        90
Laboratory utilization rate (X)           35     37.2      39.3     41.5        45
Unit recurrent cost (in Yuan)       2,375.04 2,101.75 1,946.75 1,804.73 1,591.69
% of unit cost used for
personnel expenditure               58.19%   58.47%   56.15%   57.33%    59.1%
% of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                  23.92%   24.25%   24.37%   24.44%   24.54%
% of unit cost used for adminis-
tration and maintenance            17.89%   17.28%   19.48%   18.23%   16.36%



- 108 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 11
Proposed Project for Internal Reorganization and
IMoYement of Institutional Conditions for
Higher Efficiency and better Quality of
Xian Foreign Language Institute
Xian Foreign Language Institute has the mission to serve more than
five provinces in Northwest China by producing graduates in seven different
kinds of foreign languages. It has an enrollment of 1,864 students divided
into 10 specialties. In comparison with other foreign language institute in
China, Xian Foreign Language Instit,te is poorly equipped. It is short of
audio-visual instructional facilities and equipment which are necessary for
language teaching and learning. It is also short of foreign books, journals
and newspapers needed for instructional purposes. The poor institutional
conditions hinder the institute in raising instructional quality on the one
hand, and hinder it in improving its internal efficiency and external
efficiency on the other hand. For example, without necessary audio-visual
equipment and language laboratories, the class size for teaching foreign
languages is relatively small, the student-teacher ratio is low, and the
instructional quality is also low.  The proposed World Bank loan project ie:
(a) to improve the institutional conditions, (mainly equipment, facilities,
and library collections) to raise the instructional quality; (b) to reorganize
internally the institute to improve both internal efficiency and external
efficiency, such as rationalize the specialties to better address the manpower
needs; and (c) to improve its management information system for better
administration.
INDICATORS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OVER TIME
1991     1993     1995      1997     2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)    2,115    2,470    2,579    2,652    2,747
# of faculty members                     330      290      250       238      238
Average teaching load (hours/week)       6.8      8.5     11.1      11.3     11.5
# of total staff                        839       825      813       811      801
Studevit/teacher ratio                  6.4       8.5     10.3      11.3     11.5
Student/total staff ratio               2.5       3.0     3.17      3.25      3.4
Classroom utilization rate
(hours/week)                           39        43       47       49        52
Laboratory utilization rate
(hours/week)                           32        35       37        37       40
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)         2,746    2,744    2,766    2,773    2,776
Z of unit cost used for personnel
expenditure                            55        47       44        41       41
X of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                     11        18       20        22       22
X of unit cost used for adminis-
tration and maintenance                 34       35       36        37       37



- 109 -
ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 11
PXr2goed Meregr of
Ba2i Teaghers College and Baoji University
Baoji Teachers College is a pre-service teacher training
institution. It has 10 specialties and enrolls 1,890 students. Baoji
University is a short-cycle (two or three-year programs) vocational and
technical training institution with an enrollment of 505 students divided into
4 specialties. The two institutions are located close to each other. The
proposed project is: (a) to merge the two higher education institutions on
one campus to achieve the economies of scale; (b) to reorganize internally the
newly merged university to improve both internal efficiency and external
efficiency; and (c) to improve the teaching conditions (school building,
facilities and equipment) to raise the instructional quality.
INDICATORS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OVER TIME
1991     1993     1995     1997      2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)    2,268    2,696    3,017    3,377    4,000
# of faculty members                    291      319       337      355      381
Average teaching load (hours per
week)                                 4.7      5.1       5.4      5.7      6.3
# of total staff                        617      667       693      731      777
Student/teacher ratio                7.79/1   8.45/1   8.94/1    9.5/1   10.5/1
Student/total staff ratio            3.68/1   4.04/1   4.32/1   4.62/1   5.15/1
Classroom utilization rate (X)           91     92.5        94       95     95.8
Laboratory utilization rate (X)        85.7     89.5        93     94.7     96.6
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)         1.779    1.705    1.667    1.641    1.596
X of unit cost used for personnel
expenditure                            53       52       51        50       48
X of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                     20       22     23.5        25       27
% of unit cost used for adminis-
tration and maintenance                27       26     25.5        25       25



- 110 -
ANN-EX 13
Page 8 of 11
Proposed Merger of
Yulin Teachers College and
Yulin Aericulture and Forestry College
Yulin Teachers College is a pre-service teacher training
institution. It has 5 specialties with a total enrollment of 870 students.
Yulin Agriculture and Forestry College is a short-cycle (two or three year
programs) agriculture and forestry training institution with an enrollment of
only 120 students divided into 2 specialties. The two institutions are
located close to each other. The proposed project is: (a) to merge the two
higher education institutions on one campus to achieve the economies of scale;
(b) to reorganized internally the newly merged university to improve both
internal efficiency and external efficiency; and (c) to improve the teaching
conditions (school building, facilities and equipment) to raise the
instructional quality.
INDICATQOS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OVER TIME
1991     1993     1995      1997      2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)    1,145    1,608    2,208    2,730    3,520
# of faculty members                     166      196       242      285       350
Average teaching load (hours per
week)                                 4.14     4.92      5.47     5.75      6.03
# of total staff                         328      398       473      545       660
Student/teacher ratio                   6.90     8.20      9.12     9.58    10.06
Student/total staff ratio               3.49     4.04      4.67     5.01      5.33
Classroom utilization rate
(hours/week)                         30.1        40       45        50        55
Laboratory utilization rate
(hours/week)                            25       28        30       32        35
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)          1,960    1,890    1,810    1,786    1,750
X of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                  44.30    39.58    36.36    35.83    35.00
X of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                   28.10    33.61    36.40    37.16    38.35
Z of unit cost used for admin-
istration and maintenance            27.60    26.81    27.24    27.01    26.66



- 111 -
AXNEX 13
Page 9 of 11
ProDosed Merger of
XiAn Teachers College and Xian Univeyrsity
Xian Teachers College is a pre-service teacher training institution.
It has 10 specialties and a total enrollment of 1,013 students. Xian
University is a short-cycle (two or three year programs) vocational and
technical training institution with an enrollment of 1.030 students divided
into 11 specialties. Both institutions are located in Xian City. The
proposed project is: (a) to merge the two higher education institutions to
achieve the economies of scale; (b) to reorganize internally the newly merged
university to improve both internal efficiency and external efficiency; and
(c) to improve the teaching conditions (school building, facilities and
equipment) to raise the instructional quality.
INDICATQRS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OVER TIME
1991     1993     1995     1997      2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)    2,422    2,934    3,200    3,425    3,650
# of faculty members                    320      324       324      330      337
Average teaching load (hours per
week)                                 5.2      6.2       6.8      7.1      7.4
% of total staff                        595      595      595       609      628
Student teacher ratio                   7.6      9.0      9.9      10.3     10.8
Student total staff ratio               4.1      4.9      5.3       5.5      5.8
Classroom utilization rate
(hours per week)                       16       18       30        22       24
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)         1,445    1,326    1,298    1,295    1,293
X of unit cost used for personnel
expenditure                          00.8     57.2     56.3      56.2     56.1
X of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                   19.6     21.4       24      25.2     26.4
X of unit cost used for adminis-
tration and maintenance              19.6     24.4     19.7      18.1     17.5



- 112 -
MXEX 13
Page 10 of 11
Proposed Internal Reorganization of
Hunan Light Industrial College
Hunan Light Industrial College is an engineering-oriented
institution which produces technical personnel for the light industries of the
whole province. It has an enrollment of 2,178 students divided into 22
specialties. The average size of each specialty is less than 100 students.
The over specialization tends to result in low utilization of specialized
equipment and low teaching load of faculty members, and the students are
locked into a narrow specialization which tend to make them less flexible and
less adaptive to technologically induced changes and labor market needs. The
proposed project is: (a) to reorganized internally the institute to improve
both internal efficiency and external efficiency, such as broadening the
specialties and reducing the number of specialties from 22 to 12; (b) to
improve the conditions (school building, facilities and equipment) to raise
the instructional quality.
INDICATORS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIEF^Y OVER TIME
1991     1993     1995      1997      2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)    2,385    2,798    3,525    4,000    4,783
#i of faculty members                    302      322       332      352       382
Average teaching load (hours per
week)                                 7.22     8.05      9.40     9.70    10.00
# of total staff                         565      555       547      562       580
Student/teacher ratio                    7.9      8.9      10.6     11.4      12.6
Student/total staff ratio                4.2      5.0       6.4      7.1       8.2
Classroom utilization rate (X)            42       43        48       49        50
Laboratory utilization rate (X)           25       27        30       32        35
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)          1,545    1,538    1,532    1,499    1,478
% of unit cAst used for instruc-
tional expenditure                   40.9      40.3      38.9     38.3      34.7
Z of unit cost used for instruc-
tional expenditure                      42       43      47.6     50.5        55
% of unit cost used for adminis-
tration and maintenance               19.1     16.7      13.5     11.2      10.3



- 113 -
ANNA 13
Page 11 of 11
Proposed Merger of
Yuncheng Teachers Training College. Yuncheng
Institute of Education and Hedong University
Yuncheng Teachers Training College is a pre-service teacher training
institution. It has 9 specialties and enrolls 1,069 students. Yuncheng
Institute of Education provides in-service training for teachers and school
administrators with an enrollment of 416 students divided into 6 specialties.
Hedong University is a short-cycle (two or three year programs) vocational and
technical training institution with an enrollment of 230 students in 4
specialties, all the three institutions are located in Yuncheng District. The
proposed project is: (a) to merge the three higher education institutions to
achieve the economies of scale; (b) to reorganize internally the newly merged
university to improve both internal efficiency and external efficiency; and
(c) to improve the teaching conditions (school building, facilities and
equipment) to raise the instructional quality.
INDICATORS OF EXPECTED IMPROVEMENT OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OVER TIME
1991     1993      1995     1997      2000
Enrollment (full-time equivalent)    1,937    1,897    2,004    2,277    2,505
# of faculty members                     264      252       247      251       275
Average teaching load (hour per week) 4.76       5.40      5.20     5.20      5.72
# of total staff                         556      541       580      534       555
Student/teacher ratio                  7.3:1    7.5:1    8.1:1    9.1:1    9.1:1
Student/total staff ratio              3.5:1    3.5:1    3.8:1    4.3:1    4.5:1
Classroom utilization ratio
(hour per week)                        48        48       48        48       48
Laboratory utilization ratio           10-14    12-16    16-24    24-30    24-36
Unit recurrent cost (in yuan)          2,210    2,005    2,012    1,992    1,932
% of unit cost used for personnel
expenditure                         42.3%       42%    41.2%       38%    31.6%
% of unit cost used for instruc-
tinal expenditure                    25.1%    28.5%    31.5%    37.5%    45.1%
% of unit cost used for adminis-
trative and maintenance              32.3%    29.5%    27.3%    24.5%    23.3%



CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POO PROVINCES PROJECT
Prolect Costs
Sufmary Account by Project Cc>nent
(Yuan)
Physical           Price
Plan .                    Contingencies       Contingencies
Basic     Nigher    Hanag.                  -------------------------------------
Education Education  lirprove.      Total         X      Amount       X   Auount
. INVESTMENT COSTS
...... ._. .____..
A. Civil Works                     C04987.4   81343.1         0.0  486330.5         8.0   38906.4    16.8   81818.9
8. Furniture                        44972.5        0.0        0.0   44972.5        8.0    3597.8    16.6    7447.7
C. Equipment - easic Ed            118894.2        0.0        0.0  118894.2        8.0    9511.5    15.8   18728.8
D. Equipment - Higher Ed                0.0   67641.9    1039.6   68681.5          8.0    5494.5    10.5    7189.3
E. Equipment for Ngiwt Info             0.0        0.0    2081.3    2081.3          8.0      166.5    10.1      210.4
F. Dooks                            38104.9   12542.4         0.0   50647.3        8.0    4051.8    15.8    7978.8
C. Teacher Training                 51981.5        0.0        0.0   51981.5         0.0        0.0    13.0    6757.8
H. University Staff Training            0.0    7581.6         0.0    7581.6        6.7      505.4    12.9       980.2
1. Stud, Training & Research
1. Local Costs                      1414.6    2758.1    7375.3   11547.9          9.6    1108.8    16.9    1951.1
2. Foreign Costs                    3250.3    4211.6    4591.8   12053.6          9.4    1135.2       9.7    1172.6
Sub-total                            4664.9    6969.6   11967.0   23601.5           9.5    2244.0    13.2    3123.7
J. Oistribution-BooksSEquip         27702.0        0.0        0.0   27702.0        8.0    2216.2    14.0    3876.9                           1
K. Distribution-Furniture             770.1        0.0        0.0      770.1        8.0       61.6    14.0      108.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             692077.4  176078.6   15087.9  883243.9           7.6   66755.8    i5.6  138220.5                         r
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...... _  _.... _..
A. Maintenance
1. Primry Schools                    702.1        0.0        0.0      702.1        0.0       0.0    15.7       110.2
2. Secondary Schools                 319.4        0.0        0.0      319.4        0.0        0.0    15.4       49.0
3. University Buildings                0.0       81.3        0.0       81.3        8.0        6.5    16.6       13.5
4. Maintenance of Equipment          584.1    1014.6       945.5    2544.2         2.8       72.2    18.1      461.0
Sub-total                            1605.6    1096.0       945.5    3'.7.1         2.2       78.7    17.4      633.7
Total BASELINE COSTS               693683.0  177174.6   160E3.4  886891.0           7.5   66834.4    15.7  138854.1
Physical Contingencies            51301.0   14087.1    1446.4   66834.4
Price Contingencies              112078.3   24552.5    2223.3  138854.1           7.0    9779.2
Total PROJECT COSIS                857062.3  215814.2   19703.1  1092579.6          7.0   76613.6    12.7  138854.1
Taxes                                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0                                         0 OO-
Foreign Exchange                 119442.0   86490.2    8967.9  214900.1           7.3   15596.1
-  .  .....  .    ...........-......  .  ........   .......-.-.---.  ...------.......-----..--------__-_-*--*-_-_-_-__-_-_-__-_-__-_---
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0  1/21/1992 6:33



EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Project Costs
Summarv Accounts by Year
(Yuan)
Base Costs                                           foreign Exchange
... ..._......._.. ....... .......  _...  _._........... _____......................._.___.____.......................................  ------------
1992       1993       2994       1995       1996       1997      Total           X     Aunomt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
......... ............... ....
A.  Civil Uorks                    23625.6   118388.9   119692.4   120996.0    75048.3    28579.2  486330.5            11.2   54683.4
9.  Furniture                       2248.6    11243.1    11243.1    11243.1      6745.9     2248.6   44972.5           11.2     5048.5
C.  Equipment - Basic Ed            5944.7    29723.5    29723.5   297Z3.5    17834.1       5944.7   118894.2          20.4    24252.0
9.  Equipment - Higher Ed           3434.1    17170.4    17170.4    17170.4    10302.2      3434.1    68681.5          80.4    55214.5
E.  Equipment for Hgmt Info          104.1      520.3      520.3       520.3      312.2      104.1     2081.3          84.5     1755.2
F.  Books                           2532.4    12661.8    12661.8    12661.8      7597.1     2532.4    50647.3          20.4    103Z4.8
C.  Teacher Training                2599.1    12995.4    12995.4    12995.4      7797.2     2599.1    51981.5          10.2     5314.8
H.  University Staff Training        379.1     1895.4      1895.4     1895.4     1137.2      379.1     7581.6          50.6     3837.6
I. Stud, Training & Research
1. Local Costs                    577.4     2887.0     2887.0      2887.0    1732.2       577.4    11547.9          10.2     1180.7
2. Foreign Costs                  602.7     3013.4     3013.4      3013.4     1808.0      602.7    12053.6          90.2    10874.8
Sub-total                           1180.1     5900.4     5900.4      5900.4     3540.2     1180.1    23601.5         51.1    12055.5
J.  Distribution-BooksgEquip        1407.0     6919.7     6919.7      6919.7     4151.8     1383.9   27702.0           40.2    11147.1
K.  Distribution-Furniture            38.5      192.5       192.5      192.5      115.5       38.5      770.1          40.0      308.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             43493.2   217611.5   218915.0   220218.6   134581.9   48423.7   883243.9            20.8   183944.5
It. RECURRERT COSTS
........_._._._ _ 
L. Kaintenance
1. Primary Schools                 33.7      169.1      171.8       174.4      109.5       43.6      702.1          1t.0       77.2
2. Secondary Schools               16.0       79.8        79.B       79.8       47.9       16.0      319.4          11.0       35.1
3. UniversIty Buildings             4.1       20.3       20.3        20.3       12.2        4.1       81.3          11.0        8.9
4. Maintenance of Equipment        92.9      477.4      542.1       606.9      485.9      339.0     2544.2          11.0      279.9
Sub-total                            146.6      746.7      814.1       881.5      655.5      402.6     3647.1          11.0      401.2
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............ ..    ......... ..... ..._.. .__._  ----------------------___
Total BASELINE COSTS               43639.8   218358.2  219729.1   221100.1   135237.4   48826.4  886891.0              20.8   184345.7
Physical Contingencies           3288.2    16452.6    16556.9    16661.2    10192.8    3682.6   66834.4             21.6    14420.9
Price Contingencies              1189.4    17248.0   28888.8   42014.6   34073.6   15439.7  138854.1                11.6    16133.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                48117.5   252058.8   265174.8   279775.9   179503.8    67948.7  1092579.6           19.7  214900.1             o 
Taxes                               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0           is
Foreign Exchange                 9948.3    50641.1   52283.7   54763.0    34704.0    12560.0   214900.1            100.0   214900.1              X
..-- . ... --.- .-.-.-. -.---.---_.-. _ .-.-.-----. -.--..-_-._---------- _._,-___------------------...------.-_-__-_-___-
Values Scaled by 1000.0  1/21/1992  6:34                                                                                                          0 4>
ln



CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPHENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Proiect Costs
Summary Accounts Cost Suiary
Yuan                                  SUS                                X Total
.................................    ------------------------------    % Foreign            Base
Local    Foreign       Total         tocal   Foreign      Total       Exchange      Costs
...... ......... ...... ...........  ..  -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -    ....----------_-----..  ... ......  _,, _ ....... __ _ _ ___
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
............ ...
A. Civil Works                      431647.1    54683.4   486330.5        81207.1   10036.8  91244.0              11.2       54.8
8. Furniture                         39924.0      5048.5    44972.5        7509.5      928.1    8437.6            11.2        5.1
C. Equipnent - Basic Ed              94642.1    24252.0   118894.2        17845.3    4461.3   22306.6            20.4        13.4
D. Equipoent - Higher Ed             13467.0    55214.5    68681.5         2577.2   10308.7   12885.8            80.4         7.7
E. Equipnent for Ngmt Info             323.1      1758.2     2081.3          61.8      328.7     390.5           84.5         0.2
F. Books                             40322.6    10324.8    50647.3         7601.9    1900.5    9502.3            20.4         5.7
G. Teacher Training                  46666.7      5314.8    51981.5        8777.4      975.3    9752.6           10.2         5.9
R. University Staff Training          3744.0      3837.6     7581.6         711.2      711.2    1422.4           50.6         0.9
1. Stud, Training & Research
1. tocat Costs                    10367.2     1180.7    11547.9         1949.9      216.7    2166.6           10.2         1.3
2. foreign Costs                   1178.8    10874.8    12053.6          226.1    2035.3    2261.5            90.2         1.4
sub-Tota1                            11546.0    12055.5    23601.5         2176.1    2252.0    4428.1             51.1        2.7
J. Distribution-Books&Equip          16554.9    11147.1    27702.0         3118.4    2079.0    5197.4            40.2         3.1
K. Distribution-Furniture              462.1       308.0      770.1          86.7       57.8     144.5           40.0         0.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              699299.5   183944.5   883243.9       131672.5   34039.3  165711.8            20.8        99.6                       1
... .... ... .... ...... ......... I.......  .................. . ..... ......  ,-...------_...---.....---------... . 
It. RECURRENT COSTS
..... ....... . ..... .  cs
A. Maintenance
1. Primary Schools                  624.9       77.2       702.1         117.2       14.5     131.7           11.C         0.1
2. Secondary Schools                284.3       35.1       319.4          53.3        6.6      59.9            11.0        0.0
3. University Buildings              72.4         8.9       81.3          13.6        1.7      15.3           11.0         0.0
4. Maintenance of Equipwent        2264.3      279.9      2544.2         424.8       52.5     477.3           11.0         0.3
Sub-Total                             3245.9       401.2     3647.1         609.0       75.3     684.3            11.0        0.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                702545.4   184345.7   886891.0       132281.5   34114.6  166396.1            2J.5       100.0
Physicat Contingencies            52413.5    14420.9    66834.4         9833.7    2705.6   12539.3             21.6        7.5
Price Contingencies              122720.6    16133.5   138854.1        22552.6    3498.8   26051.4            13.4        15.7
Total PROJECTS COSTS                877679.5   214900.1  1092579.6       164667.8   40319.0  204986.8             19.7      123.2
_.__  ..... ......... __.... ___._........... __._......_____......__.__.__......_.__,_.........................................................        X
Values Scaled by 1000.0      1/21/1992  6:34                                                                                                          w 
O .



CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Proiect Costs
Financina Plan bv Pro!ect Conwonents
SUS
Counties,                              Central
Uorld Bank          Tounships           Provinces         Coverrwnent       Cofinanciers            lotal                     Local
...........         ----------------------*--*----*- --------------------------------------------------------------         For.   (Exel.
Amonxt     X       Amount      X      Amount      X       Amount      X      Amount      %       Amt         X       Exch.    Taxes)
A. Basic Education                106385.6    66.2   37800.4    23.5   16613.8    10.3            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  160799.7    78.4   22409.4  138390.3
S. Higher Education                19999.5    49.4         0.0      0.0   20491.0    50.6         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   40490.5    19.8   16227.0   24263.4
C. Plan & Hanag. luprove.           3617.2    97.9         0.0      0.0       79.5     2.1        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    3696.6       1.8    1682.5    2014.1
Total Disbursement                130002.2    63.4   37800.4    18.4   37184.2    18.1            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  204986.8   100.0   40319.0  164667.8
=         _   ==__====____ ==_                                                                      _                           =====_=
....... ............__,__.._.__._____.............................  ______........................  _____......................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0 1121/1992 6:34
I-
I-Q 
o 4>



- 118 -
ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 5
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES a OJECT
Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
DISBURSEMENT (USS Million)
Disbursement
Fiscal Year                Year       Cumulative      Cmulative ()            Profile (6)
1992                     7.2             7.2              5.5                  0
1993                     9.8            17.0            13.0                   7
1994                    20.0            37.0            24.0                  31
1995                    30.0            61.0             51.0                61
1996                    25.0            92.0             70.0                76
1997                    25.0           117.0            90.0                  89
1998                    13.0           130.0           100.0                100



- 119 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Counterpart Funds
1.        The six provinces proposed to use funds coming from the following
sources:
(a) the provincial government;
(b)  prefectural governments;
(c) county governments;
(d) education levies, collected by county governments but not included
in the government budget (called non-budgeted funds);
(e) social donations; and
(f) schools work and study rograms.
2.        Tthe proposals of the six provinces are presented in the attached
table. These proposals were drawn up by the six provinces on the basis of the
allocations of the IDA Credit.  They -rovide a reasonable indication of where
the six provinces expect their counterpart funds to come from.
3.        Since the project would be implemented in the poorest counties of
six relatively poor provinces, the appraisal mission recommended that school
work and study programs, and social donations: school contributions, and
student fees not be included among the counterpart funds. Money deriving from
these sources needs to be used at the school level for urgent school-related
needs and should not be assigned for the additional investments proposed under
the project.
4.        Little information is available on the financing of education in
China. The Government budget includes only the "budgeted funds" which are
only 50% of total expenditures, the appraisal mission attempted to determine
whether the proposals from each source were reasonable and feasible, given the
levels of financing actually undertaken from each source in the recent past.
Although little information is available about the level of financing
available from education levies and from social contributions, the provincial
authorities were able to demonstrate convincingly that on a per capita basis,
the proposed estimates were not unreasonable. Similarly, figures given on
government appropriations at the various levels actually used for construction
at the primary level seemed to correspond to the proposals made for
counterpart financing on this basis.



- 120 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
COUNTERPART FUNDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION COMPONENT
(million Yuan)
A                                  C              D               E                 F               G -r
Central         Provincial       Prefecture       Counties       Education        School Work       Social       Total
Government       Government                                           Levy            & Study        Donations
... ___ ................................._ __ _ , ,                        . . _.__  _.Program
Hunan             0.0                   5.5             6.0           22.5              30.0               0.0           0.0      64.3
Hubei             0.0                  20.0             0.0           19.0              30.6               0.0           8.4       78.0
Shanxi            0.0                  20.3             8.5            6.0              21.3               0.0          15.6      71.6
Shaanxi           0.0                  15.0            20.0           15.0              21.7               3.9          11.2      86.8
Yunan             0.0                  29.4            20.5           16.0              17.4               0.0           0.0      83.3
Cuizhou           0.0                  34.2             5.0           20.0              10.0               0.0          10.2      79.4
_ Total                                                                                                                            463.4
5.         The total counterpart funds required for the basic education component of the
project amounts to US$57.5 million (or the equivalent of 300 million yuan, abut 8.3
yuan per capita in project counties).



CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Project Management Structure
SPC                             Steering conuraltee       I
Povincial                         Vice Govemor
Depatment of                      Steering Committee
Finance                  Provincial EducRalon Commillee
.   . -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1~~~~~ I I                                                                                                       CnimUrBueu 
P1  tPsrovnclal Education CommiNe aFosrclnan ,eBur,eau 
PIFOO                                  .               lnancen aureau
T:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Vice Commissioner
Steering Committee. Prefecture
Vice Director                              Construcion Bureau
County PIO.                                  Finance Bureau
County Educaoon Bureau                            Planning Bureau
|         Township Prolecl
Implementallon Group       J
(5r1
(D  r-
SEdC n Stale Educallon Commission
MOF a Mnstiy do Finance
SPC  * State Pawitn Commission



CHINA
EDUCAllON DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Inter-crganizational Structure of Shaanxi Provincial Department of Education
Slate Councl
P|  _ ndal Govenment        SEdC                             f H.E. insitliulions alillated o
Ptovhncial Government                                 SE CI                                    mlinshles and SEdC
Deparlmenl                Bureau of                 H E. Institullons affiliated to
Preleclual Govemnment       lof  iuaon                             Higher                   he Provincial Bureau of H.E.
County Govemment        |                 Proefectual Bureau ol Educaon                  Coeges and Schools afloated
j                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to the Provincial Depadlmentj
ColNeges, schools and
Town Government                            County Bureau ol Educallon                    special educatlon affiliated to
_he Preleclual Bureau
\ I|                                    \*    Senior high schools and Teacher
Town Office of Education                      Trainrng Schools affiliated
I___________        to the County Bureau   j
I                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
Jurior High Schools and                                    1-.
PrImary Schools       jXo Tdxn OHke                                                                o  0%
.  .  _TownOf e



- 123 -                  ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                                                Staff
date                  Activity               Skill Requirement         Weeks
May 1992        Project Launch Workshop
Baic Education
-Review with each province   Educator/Procurement           3 weeks
action plans, school         Specialist                   (meeting
construction lists,                                       in
equipment lists, teacher                                  Hubei)
training plans and tech-
nical assistance
- Review first year imple-
mentation plan
- Review procurement docu-
ments
Higher Education
- Review first year imple-    Higher Education              2 weeks
mentation plans with         Specialist                   (meeting
selected universities                                     in
Hubei)
MIS and Project Management
- Review contract with        MIS Specialist                2 weeks
Shanghai Municipality for                                 (Hubei
provision of technical                                    and
assistance and training                                   Shanghai)
- Discuss first year imple-
mentation plans



- 124 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 4
Approximate                                                                Staff
date                   Activity               Skill Requirement         Weeks
July 1992     Supervision Mission 1
Visit Hunan and Guizhou        Education/Procurement        3 weeks
provinces and meet with        Specialist                   (Hunan
other provinces in Hunan                                    and
- Review county level plans                                 Guizhou)
for 5 counties in each
province
- Review detailed terms of
reference for training
project implementation
staff
- Review Technical
Assistance Plans
November 92   Supervision Mission 2
Visit Yunnan and Shaanxi       General Education            3 weeks
provinces, and meet with
other provinces in Xien        Higher Education
Specialist
- Review progress in school   Procurement Specialist
construction, procurement
of equipment and furni-
ture, training of
teachers
- Visit counties to see how
county level units are
carrying out procurement
activities
- Review technical
assistance plans
- Visit project universi-
ties to discuss progress
in reform activities
- Review progress in pre-
paring first annual
report



- 125 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 4
Approximate                                                               Staff
date                   Activity               Skill Requirement         Weeks
.Spervision Missions 3-4-5
March 93      - Shanxi and Shaanxi           General Educator             2 weeks
November 93   - Hubei and Hunan                                           each
March 94      - Yunnan and Guizhou                                        time
The Bank members will meet    Higher Education             2 weeks
with representation from       Specialist                  each
all provinces and visit the                                time
two provinces indicated to:
-Review county level plans
- Review progress in action
plans
-Agree on topics for
special studies, timing
and terms of reference
- Review progress in
construction, equipment
and training
- Review progress in imple-
menting higher education
reforms
- Review progress in tech-
nical assistance and
staff training
- Review progress in the
implementation of MIS



126 -
ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 4
Approximate                                                                Staff
date                   Activity               Skill Requirement          Weeks
Mid-Term Review                General Educator             3 weeks
November 94   - Meeting of provincial
representatives in
Beijing                      Higher Education
- Each province will           Specialist
present progress report
on: Action Plans
Construction
Equipment
Training of Teachers
Higher Education
Component
MIIS
Review with MOE the dis-
bursement for each province
Supervision Mission 6-7-8-
9-10-11
March 95      Visit Shanxi and Shaanxi       General Educator              2 weeks
November 95   Visit Hubei and Hunan                                        each
March 96      Visit Yunnan and Guizhou       Higher Education              time
November 96   Visit Shanxi and Shaanxi       Specialist
March 97      Visit Hubei and Hunan
November 97   Visit Yunnan and Guizhou
Activities are the same as
March 93)
Super,vision Mission 12        General Educator             3 weeks
March 98      - Review Provincial Comple-
tion Plans                   Higher Education
Specialist
Participate in meeting with
University Presidents to
review results of Higher
Education Reforms



ANNEX 18
- 127 -                 Page 1 of 3
CHINA
EpUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
General Documents
1.   Project Preparation Documents for Basic Education
Provincial Proposal Tables (in both English and Chinese)
County Proposal Tables (in both English and Chinese).
2.   Higher Education Proposals for 11 institutions.
3.   Training Materials for Computer Models Used for Provincial Education
Project (Prepared by Beijing University in Chinese).
4.   Tables for collection of information on Enrolment Cost and Finance of
University (in both English and Chinese).
5.   Tables for Calculating Payback Period of Higher Education Investment.
6.   Guidelines for Proposals for Provincial Higher Education Projects (in
Chinese).
7.   Criteria for Selecting Higher Education Projects (in Chinese).
Basic Education Component
Guizhou Province
1.   The Guizhou Report on the Feasibility Study of "The World Bank Loan
Project of Education Development in Poor Provinces."
2.   Lists of Schools in two counties - Puding County and Dushan County (in
Chinese).
3.   Map of Guizhou.
4.   Assessment Table for Guizhou County Level Feasibility Study of the World
Bank Education Development Project in Poor Provinces.
5.   Expected Effectiveness Indicators of the Project (in Chinese).
6.   Sources of Local Counterpart Funds for the World Bank Education Project
in Poor Provinces - Guizhou.



- 128 -                 ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
Basic Education Component
Hubei Province
1.   Lists of schools in two counties - Yingshan County and Hongan County (in
Chinese).
2.   Proposal for Education Development in Poor Provinces with a Loan Provided
by World Bank - Hubei Province.
3.   Abstract of the Feasibility Study Report on Education Development Project
in Poor provinces - Hubei, China.
4.   Document on Construction Management for the Project - Hubei Province.
5.   Map of Hubei.
Basic Education Component
Hunan Province
1.   Education Development in Poor Provinces - Project
A Feasibility Research Document - Hunan Province.
2.   A Scheme for Establishing the Hunan Center for Training and Research on
Multigrade Class Teaching
3.   Education Development in Poor Provinces - Project
Technic Aid (Technical Assistance) for Project Counties - Hunan Province.
4.   Lists of Schools in two Counties - Longshan County and Cili County.
Basic Education Component
Shanxi Province
1.   Report on the Feasibility Study of the Education Project in Shanxi with
the Help of the World Bank Loan for Education Development in Poor
Provinces.
2.   Lists of Schools in two Counties - Zhongyan County and Dai County (in
Chinese).
3.   Map of Shanxi.
Basic Education Component
Shaanxi Province
1.   Feasibility Report on the World Bank Loan Project for Educational
Development of Provinces (Basic Education) - Shaanxi Province.



- 129 -                  ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
2.   Shaanxi Province:  World Bank Project for Education Development in Poor
Provinces - Feasibility Study and Tables by Project Counties (in
Chinese).
3.   A Quantitative Study of Scientific Determination of Recipients of A Large
Sum Loan.
Basic Education Component
Yunnan Province
1.   Report of Feasibility Studies on Yunnan Project (Basic Education).
2.   General Situation of Counties of World Bank Yunnan Project (Tables by
County) (in Chinese).
3.   Yunnan Province:  Project Counties' Construction Plan and Investment
Allocation (in Chinese).
4.   Sample Designs of School Buildings for Yunnan Education Project (in
Chinese).
5.   Map.
6.   World Bank Loan:  Yunnan Project Civil Construction Implementation Plan.
7.   Higher Education in Yunnan Province.
8.   Proposal for the World Bank Provincial Education Project in Yunnan (in
Chinese).
9.   Lists of Schools in Two Counties:  Luguan County and Wudin County.



RIO.                   us )     R St S
t    X   WOW                               g    SS'    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IFWR
(FORAAER),                                          - j,alNG       t    >S°RE0 O              /
wMO QINGOLtAHN                                      f/
CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F IgRbrn c 
U,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
JAPAN
e P GNce Is | I 07s EANG 
PROVINCE__________O '
d.-;..t- -d  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHANDO ~ ~ ~ ~~OCA
tNTEl'4A11ONAL. BOUNDARHESENAc
so° ro~~~~LOWOil c  t V  'X  CO  00  |   t      7lAO PEOPLE'St                                                   1,3h PtUPtE  
)GZANG                                  ANHUI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1111



