Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20553
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
(CREDIT 2339-CHA)
June 5, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1992              $1 = Y5.53
1993              $1 = Y5.76
1994              $1 = Y8.62
1995              $1 = Y8.35
1996              $1 = Y8.31
1997              $1 = Y8.29
1998              $1 = Y8.28
1999              $1 = Y8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEP      -  Chinese Experts Panel
EMIC    -  Education Management Information Center
FILO    -  Foreign Investment and Loan Office
IAP      -  International Advisory Panel
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
MIS      -  Management Information System
MOE    -  Ministry of Education
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Sector Manager     Alan Ruby, EASHD
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Task Manager       Sandra Erb, EASHD



CONTENTS
PREFACE   ..........................................................                                                      III
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................V
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
A. Statement/evaluation  of objectives ........................................................... 1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................... 2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................4
D. Project Sustainability ...........................................................6
E. Bank Performance ...........................................................6
F. Borrower Performance ...........................................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome ...........................................................8
H. Future Operation ..........................................................                                 10
I. Key Lessons Learned ..........................................................                              11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................................................                                    12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..........................................................                       12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................................   13
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................................................                          16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ........... 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Higher Education .......... 17
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Guizhou Province ...... 18
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Shanxi Province ......... 19
Table 5C: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Hubei Province .......... 20
Table 5D: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Hunan Province ......... 21
Table 5E: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Shaanxi Province ........ 22
Table 5F: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-Yunnan Province ........ 23
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 24
Table 7: Studies included in Project ..........................................................                  25
Table 8a: Project Costs ..........................................................                             26
Table 8b: Project Costs ..........................................................                             27
Table 8c: Project Financing ..........................................................                         28
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................................                    29
Table  10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 30
Table  11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................................... 30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................................     31
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 33
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .................................................... 37






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
PROJECT
CREDIT 2339-CHA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education
Development in Poor Provinces Project in China, for which Credit 2339-CHA in the
amount of SDR 93.2 million (approximately US$134.6 million equivalent) was approved
on March 10,1992 and made effective on July 6, 1992. The credit was closed on
December 31, 1999. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on April
4, 2000.
The ICR was prepared by Kazuko Ogawa (Task Manager at the time of writing
the ICR) and Leon H. Miller (consultant) in the Human Development Sector Unit, East
Asia and Pacific Region and reviewed by Alan Ruby, Manager, Human Development
Sector Unit and Yukon Huang, Country Director, China.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the IDA's supervision mission in
October/November 1998 and is based on materials in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to this ICR by producing its own completion reports project data and by
providing detailed comments on IDA's draft ICR.






- v -
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
PROJECT
CREDIT 2339-CHA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I .    This project was developed in support of the government's education reform
policy, "Decision to Reform the Education Structure" with major policy initiatives to
universalize basic education (nine years), to expand vocational and technical education, to
improve and restructure higher education, and to strengthen education management. In
this regard, the Bank Group committed its efforts to support these policies and to improve
and restructure higher education, and to strengthen education management. Earlier Bank
Group projects for the education sector in China focused on enrollment expansion and
improved quality of instruction and promoted greater management efficiency in order to
alleviate manpower shortages which arose from the disruption of higher education during
the Cultural Revolution. {Number macro activated; just press altI to get new numbers.
Side headings are mandatory and must be completed}
Project Objectives
2.    The previous Bank Group projects in China were for post-secondary education,
including universities, teacher training schools and vocational schools. This was the first
project to address basic education, to improve and restructure higher education and to
strengthen education management. This project aimed to support the development of
education in six poor provinces through: a) improving literacy, school attendance ratios
and school efficiency and quality by assisting the provincial governments to implement
their nine-year compulsory education requirements; b) supporting ongoing efforts to carry
out institutional reforms needed to improve the management of selected provincial
universities, their quality and internal efficiency; and c) improving the overall planning
and management of provincial and municipal educational services.
3.    The six poor provinces included in this project were: Guizhou, Hubei, Hunan,
Shaanxi, Shanxi and Yunnan. In total 114 project counties, and 19 higher education
institutions were included under the project.
4.    Project Components. There were three components in the project: a) Basic
Education, b) Higher Education and c) Planning, Finance and Management Systems. Of
the total project costs, US$205 million, 78 percent of the funds (US$130 million) were
for the Basic Education component, 20 percent (US$33million) for the Higher Education
component and the remaining 2 percent (about US$3 million) was for the Planning and
Management component, which included the Management Information System (MIS),
studies and the Chinese Expert Panel (CEP).



- vi -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was implemented in a timely and satisfactory manner and contributed
substantially to the development of the Basic Education and smaller university
developments in the six provinces. The Basic Education component succeeded in
achieving -and generally surpassing- its quantitative targets for construction, equipment,
desks and books; and the quality objectives of the project were met for each of the
provinces as recorded in Table 5. Thus both the quantity and the quality objectives for
the component were met. For the Higher Education component, the pilot schools selected
improved both their internal and external efficiencies. This was the first education
project that had the services of an all Chinese Expert Panel (CEP). Previous projects had
an International Advisory Panel. The members of the panel were well chosen and were
conscientious in carrying out their responsibilities to oversee and direct the project.
6.    Basic Education. Increased number of books per student, standard sets of
equipment per school, and percentage of qualified teachers all contributed to the
improvement in the quality of education; and the decrease of repetition rates, increase in
completion rates and the increase of student-teacher ratios all contributed to the increased
efficiency in the basic education schools under the project. In addition, the learning
environment was improved by the construction and rehabilitation of school buildings and
reducing the percentage of schools with dangerous buildings or classrooms.
7.    Higher Education. The quality of education was improved through the provision
of equipment for the schools and additional training for the teachers. Although there
were some improvements in the efficiency of the institutions, they were not of the
magnitude expected due to government regulations pertaining to: teacher's salaries,
number of students permitted, tuition charges permitted, release of excess staff, etc.
However, were it not for the project, the impact of the government regulations may have
been more severe on the institutions.
8.    Planning and Management. A large number of courses were held in each of the
provinces and counties for teachers, principals, administrators, and construction staff.
While reports by and interviews with those who attended the courses indicate a positive
reaction, it is impossible to truly assess the impact of the training upon the schools
education bureaus and divisions at the different levels. In the training activities there was
a reluctance to use outside trainers even from the local provincial universities and
institutes; thus, the majority of the training was conducted by local education bureau
staff. For the MIS component, the central Education Management Information Center
(EMIC) under MOE prepared educational data systems under the project; however, some
of the provinces prepared their own data systems. MOE will need to continue the
development and administration of the data systems to be implemented by the provinces
as a continuing program.



- vii -
9.    Overseas training was not carried out entirely as scheduled. Of the 136
individuals selected for overseas training only 90 were actually cleared for overseas
training due to the lack of foreign (mainly English) language skills of the individuals
selected for the training. Thus part of the overseas training was converted to domestic
training. For future projects, multiple candidates should be selected for each overseas
training post and the individual who can pass the English language proficiency test first
would be selected to fill the overseas training post. Another possibility for bringing
foreign methodologies to China is to conduct workshops presented by combined foreign
and domestic experts. The difficulty of finding an adequate number of English language
qualified candidates for oversees training has continued in all of the Bank Group
education projects in China.
10.   Procurement and Disbursements. The provinces carried out the procurement of
civil works, equipment and books with few difficulties, while the central MOE-FILO
conducted the ICB for the equipment for the universities. The accounting required for the
counties and provinces to reimbursement of funds from the MOF for payment from the
project had difficulties. For any future projects, the time-bound procedures to submit
requests for payment must be worked out as part of the project preparation activities.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Sustainability. The progress in education realized under this project has a high
probability of being continued. The localities have a high regard for education and will
therefore continue to support the activity. Since there is a very low birth rate in the
country, the localities can give attention to the maintenance of the new facilities and not
have to be concerned so much with the construction of additional facilities. One of the
credit conditions was the yearly preparation of a maintenance plan for all school
buildings in each county and province. These efforts are expected to continue at the
conclusion of the project; however the unit cost factors to be used in the budgets will
need additional refinement. For the teacher training activities, the provinces have
indicated their desire to continue training activities at the rate of 20-30 percent of their
teachers per year. Five of the six provinces under this project have been included in a
later IDA basic education project. This further involvement in basic education projects
by the provinces can be an assurance that the provinces give a high priority to their
education sector.
12.   Lessons Learned. The provinces are capable of implementing education projects
of this nature with the overall advice of a CEP and the guidance and coordination of the
MOE-FILO; however, institutional development in project management and supervision
must be stressed in the project formulation. As in all past education projects, technical
assistance and studies receive very little attention until the latter part of the project
implementation period; consequently their impact during the project implementation
period is minimal. In this project there were additional difficulties whereby each of the
six provinces were to jointly approve TORs, contracts, etc., and to make payments to the
research group conducting the three studies funded by the project. Development of



- viii -
proper project indicators are essential for the monitoring of the project--both for the
physical accomplishments as well as for the project benefits.
13.   IDA should provide more supervision resources for such a geographically
dispersed project as this and must ensure the proper implementation of all TA activities
early in the project implementation through proper use of conditions and covenants.



- 1 -
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES
PROJECT
CREDIT 2339-CHA
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. This project was part of IDA's strategy of supporting human
capital development and poverty alleviation in China. Extensive prior lending operations
over the past several years of the Bank Group in China's education sector has been for the
higher education by providing for equipment and teacher development. In 1986 the
Government passed a "Compulsory Education Law" which instituted a nine-year basic
education system. This was the first Bank Group education project to: a) deal with
primary education; b) target education in remote and rural areas; c) finance civil works;
d) have MOE/FILO take a coordinating role rather than implementing the project itself,
with more provincial initiative, e.g., to carry out NCB and civil works; e) have an entirely
Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) with no international representation; and f) study and
Management Information Systems (MIS) components to be implemented through the
cooperation of all provinces.
2.    Objectives. The main objectives of the project were to assist the Govermnent in
initiating institutional and policy reforms needed to improve coverage, efficiency, and
quality in primary and lower secondary schools in order to gradually achieve nine-year
compulsory education; to assist the process of economic development and restructuring
of higher education in order to improve efficiency and utilization of resources in
universities and colleges; and to improve the provincial education planning, financing
and management systems. The project covered six poor provinces: Guizhou, Hubei,
IIunan, Shaanxi, Shanxi, and Yunnan; with each province having 15-20 poor counties (an
average of 16-17 percent of the total counties in a province), for a total of 114 project
counties, under the project.
3.    Project Components: The project included three main components:
(a)  Basic Education. The Basic Education Component has two parts: the first
one is the policy action plans prepared by each county to disseminate among
all county education and finance officials the package of actions that will be
implemented simultaneously to achieve universal basic education. The
second part is specific investments to be financed under the project,
complementing the action plans and including investments in school
construction and rehabilitation, teaching aids, and training of teachers.



(b) Higher Education. The goal was to assist the small and inefficient
provincial universities facing problems of external and internal efficiency to
design and implement reforms that will result in improved resource
utilization, higher quality of education and to provide a better match with
labor market requirements.
(c) Planning and Management. To improve the provincial education
planning, financing and management systems, the project was to develop: a
management information system (MIS), improve the examination system in
order to make use of exam results for improving education methodologies
and classroom practices; strengthen the capacity of one of the six Education
Bureaus to develop a comprehensive proposal of reforms of the Higher
Education system; and to train provincial and county level staff in project
implementation management and computerized management information
systems.
4.    Evaluation of Objectives. Although IDA has had substantial lending activities in
the education sector in China over a number of years, this was the first project to address
basic education in poor provinces and to address the inefficiencies in the smaller
university level education institutions in these provinces. The project development was
supported by a Bank sector study: China. Provincial Education Planning and Finance
which provided invaluable insights in the preparation of the project. As a result the
project concepts and objectives were appropriate and timely in addressing the nine-year
compulsory education program that the country had embarked upon. Also the need to
address the inefficiencies of the smaller universities in the provinces was greatly needed.
Therefore, the overall assessment is that the project objectives were correctly identified as
stated in the project documents. In addition, the Basic Education component of this
project has been as a model for three additional projects in China
5.    Covenants. The credit covenants were well conceived and reasonable for this
project with the exception of the covenants pertaining to MIS, CEP and study
components. It still remains difficult to promptly obtain from all six provinces, the
necessary cooperation and financing of project components to be carried out by the
central MIS organization, studies and the funding for the project CEP as required under
the project covenants.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Basic Education
6.    General. The Basic Education component, the major component of the project,
absorbed about 80 percent of the project funds through the financing of school
construction, equipment and teacher and principal training. In all six provinces, the
project made significant contributions to popularizing nine-year compulsory basic
education as measured by the project monitoring indicators given in Table 5.



- 3 -
7.    Infrastructure, Equipment and Books. By the end of the project about 10.2
million square meters of classrooms had been either constructed or rehabilitated under the
project. This amounted to approximately 50 percent above the project planned area (6.75
million m2) to be developed for the 114 counties represented under the project. Thus, the
amount of dangerous and dilapidated school buildings have been substantially reduced in
the project counties. Continuing maintenance required for the structures with the
associated financial requirements, during and after the project, was emphasized under the
project implementation activities. About 30 million books and 4.7 million sets of
equipment were provided under the project. These numbers met the planned book
purchases, but were double the amount of equipment planned under the project.
8.    Qualitative Improvement A fundamental goal of the project, while supporting
the physical structures of the schools, was to improve the quality of teaching, and
management (school principles) through training and to provide books and equipment for
the schools. These quality improvement goals were measured by the project monitoring
indicators: increased overall and girls enrollment rates, reducing repetition rates,
increasing number of books per student, increasing standard equipment sets, etc. All of
these goals were greatly increased under the project. A complete listing of the project
indicators is given in Table 5.
Higher Education Component
9.    General. The main objective of this component was to demonstrate how
efficiencies of small universities might be obtained through internal reorganizations and
mergers of 19 institutions in the six provinces. The objective was to restructure
departments in order to reduce narrow fields of specialization by providing broader fields
of study. Civil works was completed through local financing and the funds from the IDA
contributions were for the procurement of equipment and staff training. One province,
Shanxi, was selected to carry out a comprehensive plan for the reform of Higher
Education as a model for all provinces.
10.   Qualitative Improvement. The Higher Education institutions all received
improvements in both efficiency and quality as a result of the reforms implemented under
the project. As a result of the institutional mergers brought about under the project,
internal efficiencies were realized including: reductions in student/staff and
student/teacher ratios; and increased utilization of equipment and classrooms. Increases
in the quality of education were realized with the introduction of laboratory and audio-
visual equipment, computers, and books procured under the project. The overseas and
local training provided improved the qualifications of the staff and have thus raised the
quality of both teaching and research. Also, under the project improvements for external
efficiencies, increased responsiveness of the university teaching and research to the
changing economic and technological needs of the community were attained. As a result
of mergers and internal restructuring, institutions adjusted courses and programs to
eliminate duplication, increase flexibility and introduce new specialties in response to



- 4 -
emerging labor market demands. Although the internal efficiencies improved, the unit
cost increased as a result of inflation during the project period, increased public salary
scales and increased expenditures for equipment and the associated maintenance. The
Comprehensive Program of Higher Education Reform as a pilot study was successfully
prepared by Shanxi province.
Planning and Management
11.   This component was included for the improvement in the planning and
management of county education bureaus by providing for Management Information
Systems (MIS) software development and the procurement of computer equipment at the
provincial and county levels; technical assistance for county-level staff; improvement of
systems for the assessment of student achievements; and the provision of a panel of
experts for the review and monitor of the project implementation.
12.   The MIS development was completed by the Education Management Information
Center (EMIC) of MOE along with the associated training activities. However, with no
administrative control over the provincial EMICs there is no assurance that the MIS
system developed at the MOE will be implemented nationwide. Meanwhile the
provinces have continued to refine and implement their locally developed MIS.
Following education projects have continued the development and implementation of the
MIS throughout the country. Studies on student assessment, minban teachers and drop-
out/repetition were completed under the project and the MOE, along with the Chinese
Expert Panel, have been preparing for the dissemination of the study results.
13.   As is the general practice in education projects there was no attempt to include a
NPV nor an ERR in this project either during the project preparation or the ICR.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14.   Factors not generally subject to government control. With exception to the
earthquakes in Yunnan province in October 1995 and February 1996, and the flooding
incurred in Hunan and Hubei provinces in 1998, all the factors important to project
success were subject to either the government or the implementing agency control. The
October 1995 earthquake damaged about 28,000 m2 of schools and thus required some
additional rebuilding and repairs of both schools that had been reconstructed and/or other
schools not previously in the program. During the project implementation difficulties
were encountered with the normal bidding procedures for both civil works since
contractors were not willing to serve these remote areas. Thus more construction by force
account than originally planned was required for Guizhou province as agreed by IDA.
15.   Factors generally subject to government control. In 1992 there was a price
reform in the country raising the unit price of inputs for construction. In order to not
reduce the number of schools involved in the project, the provinces were able to resolve



- 5 -
the issue by increasing the allocation of funds from the province, counties and
prefectures. The government devaluation of the RMB in 1994 helped balance the
increased construction costs. Since the largest component of the project was for civil
works carried out by local contractors the devaluation actually provided additional local
funds that were used to extend the project to additional schools and to help cover the
increase in unit construction costs.
16.   For the improved efficiencies expected under the project for the Higher Education
component, the government increased public employee payment scales thus affecting the
student unit cost more negatively than had been expected under the project. Also the
institutions are subject to government regulations, such as the permissible enrollment
levels and the tuition charges, along with the inability to readily reduce the number of
non-teaching staff, which have a substantial negative effect upon the efficiencies of the
institutions.
17.   Factors generally subject to implementing agencies controL The Bank
procedures for the procurement of equipment were not completely new to the provinces
since they had all participated in other IDA projects for higher level training; however the
civil works procurement procedures were new to the provinces. The provincial and
county education bureaus quickly learned the Bank's requirements for competitive
bidding and were able to implement the project in a timely manner. The project was
expected to concentrate on construction quality as well as the quantity of construction.
However, the education bureaus at both the provinces and counties were reluctant to carry
out the necessary workshops for the counties and prefectures using the inputs from local
engineering schools. Rather, the education bureaus relied on their own staff for such
training which did not include new and advanced procedures to the project in the areas of
civil construction.
18.  It was only during the last year of the project implementation that the three studies
were completed. This long completion time was due to number of factors: time to agree
on TORs, time to select a proper institution to carry out each study, and for all of the
provinces to sign the contract and the excessive times to carry out the studies.
Consequently, the study results were of little use during this project in the development of
the elementary school system. During the final project supervision mission, Shanxi
province presented the results obtained from the Comprehensive Higher Education
Reform study to the six provinces attending the project meeting. Under the auspices of
the CEP and FILO, experiences from the restructuring and mergers or the higher
education institutions and the three studies in the project would be disseminated to the
relevant central and provincial government agencies. These experiences are important
lessons in formulating reform plans.



- 6 -
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.   The provinces have recognized the need for continuing support of the project
schools from the inception of the project by providing the yearly maintenance plans for
civil works, equipment and teacher training as provided in the project agreement
covenants. There is some difficulty in determining what yearly allowance should be
established for the maintenance and teacher training for the schools. For the latter
component, teacher training in the provinces have indicated their desire that 20-50
percent of the primary and junior secondary teachers receive training each year. Plans for
the future are given in Annex C.
20.   This project has demonstrated the usefulness of a planned approach for the
implementation of the national nine-year compulsory education program and with the
participation of five of the provinces in a later IDA project, there is a high assurance that
they will continue to support the project schools in the coming years. In this regard, the
MOE has adopted this planned approach for implementation and financing its own
Compulsory Education Project (1998-2000) with all provinces participating in the
program. Due to the low population growth in China there will not be a rapid increase in
the school enrollments; therefore more attention can be given to maintenance of the
system rather than expansion of the system. Throughout the project implementation the
provinces and counties proved their commitment to the project by giving their financial
support and management support to all the project activities.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
21.   This project was preceded by a major piece of sector work: China. Provincial
Education Planning and Finance Study. The project generation from the early stages of
identification and preparation to appraisal was carried out satisfactorily by IDA in terms
of development and processing of the project as well as completing these stages in a
timely manner. IDA staff and consultants assigned to these tasks, in terms of numbers
and skill mix, were also appropriate.
22.   Recognizing that the project was in poor and remote areas, adequate amounts
were not provided in the project documents for the amount of civil works to be performed
by force account and for adequate supervision of the construction activities. The
disbursement amounts under force account were adjusted during project implementation.
There are special implementation difficulties in these remote areas that must be
recognized in the preparation of future project in similar areas.
23.   Project supervision by IDA was less than ideal due to the frequent changes of task
managers and the fewer than desirable missions dictated by budgetary limitation and
other pressing assignments of the task managers. The missions did provide a substantial
amount of input to the project in the early stages of the project implementation and IDA



conducted a two-week staff training workshop in project management and construction
quality control for representatives from the provinces at Headquarters. The project
management training contributed to the implementation process of the project at the
provincial level.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   Each of the six provinces had previously established a Project Office in the
respective Education Bureaus for the implementation of other higher level projects
financed by IDA. In other projects in the education sector, MOE had the overall
responsibility for implementing the projects. However with this project the Provincial
Education Bureaus had the primary responsibility of implementing the project including
the procurement of civil works and NCB for equipment and books. The Foreign
Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of MOE acted as the coordinating body at the central
level and with the project provinces. FILO managed the ICB procurement for the higher
education component, coordinated the CEP and other technical assistance and prepared
the annual reports and audits to IDA. With the aid of the CEP, FILO effectively
supervised and managed the overall project direction with the provinces doing an
effective job in managing and implementing the project activities at the local level.
25.   The project included on the average, 19 counties per province for a total of 114
counties. This amount of construction work taking place in a period of five years resulted
in a severe strain on the supervision capacity of the provincial and county education
bureaus. About 80 percent of the school construction took place in the first 3 years of the
project. Consequently the quality of construction sometimes was not of the desired
standard. In this regard, there was no attempt to involve the local engineering schools in
the construction management, construction technology and finance training activities for
the supervision staff.
26.   During project implementation at the beginning of 1994 there was a devaluation
of the RMB. This devaluation had a substantial effect on the project by increasing the
availability of the local currency by about 35 percent. Also during the project
implementation the county and prefecture governments increased their contribution by 5-
6 times, and the provincial governments doubled their planned contribution to the project.
With these additional funds the provinces increased their construction by areas by 50
percent; equipment sets by 100 percent and teacher training numbers by up to 10 times
the planned numbers. Thus, the additional funding in the project from the original
planned amounts served to fund more components (school construction, equipment,
books and training) as well as to finance the cost escalation due to price reform and
inflation during the implementation period. These additional funds are also indicative of
the public support the local communities gave the project.
27.   Although annual reports were prepared regularly during the course of
implementation in accordance with the Credit Agreement, information contained in these



- 8 -
reports proved to be of less value due to their submission four months after the end of the
reporting year. Also reporting on implementation by categories of the project with
emphasis mainly on equipment, civil works contracts and disbursements gave a very
limited view of the overall project implementation progress. For the future, annual
reports should be more timely, and should provide a comprehensive review of the project,
its activities, problems and adjustments, and most importantly, an assessment of meeting
the overall project objectives.
28.   Disbursements. Keeping the project accounts was a problem due to poor
coordination between the education and finance branches in the provinces and counties
and between MOF and the provincial Finance Bureaus. Even though construction
expenditures were being made early in the project, the disbursements for the project were
delayed. In the final year, this led to the problem of not knowing the exact amount of the
outstanding payments to be made and the resulting credit balance for each province by
category. However the difficulty was finally resolved with the intervention of IDA and
the cooperation of MOF. Each province contributed to the payment of studies and the
CEP, thus making the release of these individual payments a tedious process as not all the
provinces paid in their portions promptly. The provinces and the counties were very
supportive of the project and both supported the project funding; however for the
increased local funding requirements due to inflation factors, the main burden fell on the
counties and prefectures.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   General. The project is rated generally satisfactory in that it initiated a process of
quality and efficiency improvements in the basic education system and among the smaller
university level institutions. Most of the project monitoring indicators in the project
exceeded the target amounts as can be seen in Table 5. The most important indicators in
determining the success of the project for the basic education component were the
percentage increases in total school enrollments and the number of girls and minority
children enrolled in each of the provinces as well as the reductions in repetition rates and
increased rate of competition from primary schools. Contributing to this outcome were a
number of important reforms of the education system: increasing the student/teacher
ratio, increasing the teacher hours per week, improvement in the teacher qualified rate
and the training for the principals. Also, there was some training and experience for the
provincial and county level education bureau staff in the planning, including financial,
construction, equipment and book procurement, and management of their school
improvement program. These same approaches are being applied to new projects and the
continuing development of education in the respective provinces.
30.   The Higher Education component initiated substantial changes in curriculum to
bring their training more in line with the changes required for a market oriented economy,
improvements in training/qualifications of teachers and the development of new courses
at the newly formed institutions brought about by the merger of the smaller institutions.



- 9 -
Because of the external factor as mentioned above in paragraph 16, the improvements in
financial measures for these schools were not as profound as desired; however, had it not
been for this project the consequences may have been worse. With these exceptions the
development objectives were relevant and achieved.
31.   The TA program for basic teacher training exceeded the targets by 175 percent for
the number of trainees and by 110 percent for the amount of time spent in teacher
training. The teaching programs in the provinces covered many areas: qualification
training, continuing education, multi-grade education, bilingual education, minority
education and laboratory teaching. The training curriculums were based on subject
knowledge and for the most part the continuation of current practices. This training
would have benefited with inputs from trainers outside of the provinces to pedagogical
strategies and curriculum development. Other weaknesses identified were related to the
difficulty of measuring improvements in teaching and management effectiveness as a
result of teacher and management training and for the absence of a more effective
monitoring and evaluation system of the training programs. Even with these
shortcomings in the training programs, the teacher training program showed a positive
correlation with the performance indicators developed for the project. The indicators
show an increase in the promotion rates for primary graduates to junior secondary
education, a decrease in the repetition rate and a decrease in the drop-out rate in both
primary and junior secondary levels.
32.   For the overseas training program, staff were selected to participate in the training
but many were unable to pass the required English proficiency examination. For future
overseas training programs, multiple candidates should be selected to ensure that a
candidate will be available with the required English or other necessary foreign language
proficiency. Substitution of local training for overseas training negates the impact
expected of bringing new ideas to China from the more advanced countries of the world.
A better approach might be to invite foreign expert(s) to give a workshop in China where
translation could be provided.
33.  In retrospect as in many projects, the many components of the TA and training
program were too elaborate to be undertaken in such a project. Future projects should
concentrate on a few areas for training and studies with the necessary conditions and
covenants to ensure that they will be carried out to fulfill the objectives and plan of the
project. The many elements in the technical assistance including training for teachers and
education bureau staff in planning, management, quality control; studies relating to
education policies and decisions; development of an MIS and overseas training, were too
much to administer during the course of such a dispersed project. Also, the situation was
exacerbated by requiring that all six provinces participate in and agree on many of the
decisions and the funding of the activities.
34.   This was the first education lending operation in China to utilize the services of
local experts to form a panel, Chinese Expert Panel (CEP), for supervising and advising
on the project activities. The panel was selected from senior members of leading



- 10-
education institutions China. These members made yearly field visits to the different
provinces and advised the provinces on all aspects of the project and were particularly
involved with the project studies. This panel was of great benefit to the project and was
appreciated by the provinces; thus should be utilized in future education projects. There
was difficulty in convincing the provinces of the need to promptly fund the CEP for their
services. This same reluctance was true for all the TA activities.
35.   Social Issues. Although the project objectives did not address the social issues
per se of the project, the IDA project appraisal staff did recognize the importance and the
impact on these issues in the project formulation. It was recognized that women have an
important role in both the agriculture and industrial activities of the society. Before the
project, fewer girls completed primary schools than boys. Before the project many of the
localities did not have schools and the boys were sent away to boarding schools.
Through the project local schools have been constructed making it easier for the girls to
attend.
36.   The need to improve the school enrollment rates for all categories was recognized
as important benefits for the reduction of poverty in the provinces. Previously, statistics
were not collected on the enrollment rates for the different categories of children. Under
the project three of the main project performance indicators pertaining to the social issues
were collected: a) Overall Enrollment Rate, b) Girls Enrollment Rate and c) Minority
Children Enrollment Rate were collected. These statistics are given in Table 5. Under
the project it can be seen that the enrollment rates have increased and now 99+ percent of
a]l children are attending primary schools and there has been some improvement in the
percentage of girls and minority children attending secondary schools, although it is not
as great as in the primary school level. Perhaps as the number of students completing the
primary education continues to increase, there will be further increases in the secondary
education enrollment levels.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
37.   The Government prepared and submitted to IDA a draft Operation Plan in
October 1998. Integrating the comments provided by IDA, the Government resubmitted
the Operation Plan in April 1999, which is attached to this report as Annex C. This plan
provides a government strategy with respect to the development and reform of basic
education and provincial universities and its plans to sustain the project impact in project
institutions and replicate to non-project institutions. The lessons learned from
implementing this project are reflected and integrated in the design of the three
subsequent Basic Education Projects, approved in 1994, 1995 and 1997, respectively,
which capitalizes on the experience and strength provided by the present operation.



- 11 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   The main lessons learned from the project are:
* China has sufficient highly trained specialist in the field of education necessary to
form an advisory group on education activities.
* When there are a large number of civil works and equipment components in a
project, implementing agencies do not have the additional staff required to
properly supervise TA activities. Also, without the necessary covenants to
enforce training in project management activities, the provinces are reluctant to
spend project funds on these activities. Therefore the TA activities pertaining to
project implementation must be carefully selected and adequate measures must be
coupled with the physical components to ensure their proper and timely
implementation.
- When there are a small number of books and equipment to be procured for remote
schools and the contracts for civil works are small, special considerations need to
be taken into account when developing procurement procedures for these
situations.
* When multiple provinces or other entities are involved in cooperative efforts, for
example, studies and a CEP, more expedient methods must be agreed upon during
the project preparation on the approval of TORs, selection of institutions/firms,
etc. and payments for the services.
* Annual reports should be required earlier after the completed year to provide both
the central government and IDA with the necessary information for making
project decisions.
* Proper financial arrangements among the concerned counties, provinces and MOF
including development of proper forms, development of software and provisions
for any equipment--must be in place at the beginning of the project.
* The project design and management methods in this project have proven very
effective. The central government has adopted the methodology in its own
Compulsory Education Project (1998-2000) and the general approach has been
used in subsequent IDA projects in China.



- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                 X
Sector policies                           X
Financial objectives                                                                   X
Institutional development                 X
Physical objectives                       X
Poverty reduction                         X
Gender issues                             X
Other social objectives                   x
Environmental objectives                                                               X
Public sector management                                                               x
Private sector development                                                             X
x
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely             Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                    Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                       X
Preparation assistance                         X
Appraisal                                                            X
Supervision                                                          x
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                           X
Implementation                                                        X
Covenant compliance                                                   X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
x



- 13 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit                                   Purpose                  Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
University Development Project    To strengthen science & engineering in    1981  Completed
(Ln. 2021-CHA, Cr. 1167-CHA)    28 leading Chinese Universities.                 1986
Objectives were to increase the quality &
quantity of graduates & research, to
strengthen the planning & management
capabilities & to prepare investments in
the education sector.
Agriculture Education and       To assist agriculture higher education and  1982  Completed
Research Project (Cr. 1297-CHA)   research in 11 agricultural colleges and 7     1989
institutions.
Polytechnic/Television University   To increase the number of students & to   1983  Completed
Project (Cr. 141 1-CHA)         improve the quality of instruction in            1992
China's 17 polytechnic institutions & 28
television universities.
Rural Health Medical Education  To educational component of this project  1984   Completed
Project (Cr. 1472-CHA)          was designed to enhance the quality of           1991
education, training & curriculum.
Second Agricultural Education   To improve & assist agriculture education  1984  Completed
Project (Ln. 2444-CHA)          in 23 agricultural colleges, 12 agricultural     1992
technical schools.
Second University Development    To increase technical & managerial   1985       Completed
Project (Cr. 1551 -CHA)         personnel through policy & institutional         1992
changes related to the engineering and
economic/finance education subsector.
Provincial University Project (Cr.   To provide direct assistance to 60  1986    Completed
1671-CHA)                      provincial universities in 28 provinces           1992
and planning assistance for the higher
education subsector.
Gansu Provincial Development    Part of comprehensive plan to attain  1987       Completed
Project - (Ln. 2812-CHA)        universal nine-year basic education and to       1995
Education Component (Cr. 1793-   improve the quality of instruction in
CHA)                            primary and lower secondary schools in
Gansu Province.
Teacher Training Project (Cr.   To support the Government's efforts to  1988     Completed
1908-CHA)                      achieve UBE by expanding and                      1993
upgrading in-service training of lower
secondary school teachers with an
emphasis on improvements in quality of
teachers.



- 14 -
Textbook Development Project   To support the textbooks upgrading   1989       Completed
(Cr. 2006-CHA)                 program by the Chinese government.              1995
Objectives are to improve the education
quality of textbooks at all levels of
schooling to increase the variety of
available textbooks and to improve the
efficiency of textbooks production.
Vocational & Technical Education   To improve the quality of technical &  1999  Completed
Project (Cr. 2114-CHA)         vocational training in China through            1996
support 59 secondary vocational/technical
schools in 10 provinces and 3
municipalities.
Medium-Sized Cities Development  To assist Changzhou, Luoyang and   1991       Completed
Project (Ln. 3286-CHA)         Shashi cities to improve overall and            1997
sector planning and management,
including education.
Key Studies Development Project   To support the government's plan to  1991    Completed
(Cr. 221 0-CHA)                reform the management of science and            1997
technology programs. It consists of
support for research and graduate training
in 133 State Key Laboratories and Special
Labs affiliated with Universities and with
the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Following Operations:
Effective Teaching Services    To contribute to improved learning at the   1993  Completed
Project (Cr. 247 1-CHA)        lower middle school level by providing          1998
teaching services, including instructional
methodology, teacher training and
management of teachers training and
assignment.
Basic Education in Poor and    To support the attainment of universal  1994    To be
Minority Areas (Cr. 2651 -CHA)    primary education and expansion of           completed
coverage of lower secondary education in       2000
poor and minority areas in 6 provinces:
Xinjiang, Sichuan, Inner Mongolia,
Ningxia, Guangxi, and Jiangxi.
Third Basic Education Project (Cr.  To support the attainment of universal  1995  To be
2831 -CHA)                     primary education and expansion of              completed
coverage of lower secondary education in       in 2001
poor and minority areas in seven
provinces: Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Hebei,
Henan, Jilin and Qinghai



- 15-
Southwest Poverty Alleviation  The education component of the project   1995   To be
Project (Cr. 3906-CHA)         will address low educational attainment         completed
among those in project areas by                2001
enhancing the delivery of primary
education to the poor through primary
school renovation and construction,
tuition assistance and nutritional
supplements for poor students, provision
of textbooks, instructional equipment and
furniture and teacher and management
training.
Vocational Education Reform    To improve and increase the supply of  1996     To be
Project (Cr. 2063-CHA/Ln. 2898-   skilled labor, raise the quality of          completed
CHA)                           efficiency of the VTE system and build          2002
up capacity for monitoring and evaluation
in four high growth provinces and Tianjin
municipality
Fourth Basic Education Project  To increase access/equity for the absolute  1997  To be
(Cr. 2954-CHA)                 poor in primary and junior secondary            completed
education; to enhance the quality of           2002
primary andjunior secondary schooling,
as well as teacher training education and
training programs; to improve efficiency
in the delivery of education through
improving educational management at all
levels.
Higher Education Reform Project   To improve the quality and relevance of   1999  To be
(Ln. 4474/Cr. 3213-CHA)        undergraduate basic science and                 completed
engineering programs through integrated        2005
reform activities in curriculum and
teaching methodology.



- 16 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                  Date planned              Date actual
Identification                                                                       1990
Preappraisal                                                                         3/91
Appraisal                                                   5/91                     9/91
Negotiations                                                9/91                     12/91
Board presentation                                          11/91                    3/92
Signing                                                    12/91                     4/92
Effectiveness                                               2/91                     7/92
Project completion                                          6/98                     6/98
Loan closing                                                12/98                    12/99
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00
Appraisal estimate                7.2      17.0      37.0      67.0      92.0      117.0    130.0
Actual                            0.0      22.4      49.9      77.2      99.8      127.3    130.3    132.8    134.61
Actual as% ofadjustedestimate             132.0    135.0      115.0     109.0      109.0    100.2
Date of Final Disbursement                                                                             April 4, 2000
I Difference in Appraisal disbursements and actual disbursements is due to change in US dollar value of SDRs



- 17-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-HIGHER EDUCATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR          Status at Start           Actual at Completion
1. Pilot Project to Combine Small Universities   Many small schools &    Concept proven to be
universities                feasible and beneficial
2. Restructuring & rationalization of department Many small (often of date  Some specialties combine
specialties)                 others were eliminated or
brought up-to-date
3. Better utilization of resources: staff,  Low utilization of           Teacher hours and
classrooms and labs                     resources                    student/teacher ratio,
classroom and lab hours
increased per week;
substantial enrollment
increased
4. Dissemination of lessons/experiences               n.a.               Limited to among FILO
and provincial FILOs
5. Upgrading staff qualifications           Low teacher and              Many teachers and staff
administration               from each university sent
qualifications               abroad and within China
for training
6. Availability of lab equipment            Low Availability             Both availability and
quality improved



- 18-
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-GUIZHOU PROVINCE
Key implementation indicators in SAR      1992 Estimate    Target      Actual
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate                       85.7          96.0        98.0
Girls Enrollment Rate                         74.4          92.0        96.0
Minority Children Enrollment Rate             76.6          92.9        96.0
Completion Rate                               79.3          84.0        87.0
Dangerous Buildings (%)                       10.6           3.0         2.2
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                     24.1          18.0         4.3
2. Efficiency
Repetition Grade I (%)                        11.1           3.8         2.2
Repetition in Primary School (1-6) (%)         7.5           3.2         1.3
Promotion of Primary Graduates (%)            56.6          65.0        79.0
Completion Rate for Primary Education (%)     71.0          84.0        87.0
Teaching Hours per Week                       24.0         26.0         29.0
Student/Teacher Ratio                         22.9         23.0         24.0
3. Quality
Average Number of Books per Student            1.3           7.0         6.8
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                    6.6        100.0        100.0
Teacher Qualification Rate                    67.6         95.0         95.0
SECONDARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate*                     N/A            N/A         N/A
Girls Enrollment Rate                        N/A            N/A         N/A
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            N/A            N/A         N/A
Dangerous Buildings (%)                      N/A            N/A         N/A
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                    N/A            N/A         N/A
2. Efficiency
Student/Teacher Ratio                        N/A            N/A         N/A
Teaching Hours per Week                      N/A            N/A         N/A
3. Quality
Standard Equipment Sets (%/6)                N/A            N/A         N/A
Average Number of Books per Student          N/A            N/A         N/A
Teacher Qualification Rate                   N/A            N/A         N/A



- 19 -
TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-SHANXI PROVINCE
Key implementation indicators in SAR    1992 Estimate    Target     Actual
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate                     99.1         99.9        99.9
Girls Enrollment Rate                       98.7         99.8        99.8
Minority Children Enrolhnent Rate            --          --           -
Completion Rate                             82.0         97.0        99.0
Dangerous Buildings (%)                      6.6          1.5         0.7
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                   46.2          9.5         8.3
2. Efficiency
Repetition Grade I (%)                       8.3          3.2         2.1
Repetition in Primary School (1-6) (%)       5.1          2.2         1.8
Promotion of Primary Graduates (%)          50.3         65.3        78.3
Completion Rate for Primary Education (%/O)  98.5        99.5        99.9
Teaching Hours per Week                     21.9         23.0        23.0
Student/Teacher Ratio                       20.3         23.0        25.0
3. Quality
Average Number of Books per Student          3.6          7.0        13.0
Standard Equipment Sets (%/6)               20.0         98.0        99.0
Teacher Qualification Rate                  82.3         95.0        99.0
SECONDARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate*                   122            --        255
Girls Enrollment Rate                       47.2         --          47.5
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            --           --
Dangerous Buildings (%)                      8.3         --           1.2
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                   40.2         --           8.0
2. Efficiency
Student/Teacher Ratio                       15.1         --          18.1
Teaching Hours per Week                     12.7         --          15.0
3. Quality
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                 24.1         --          90.0
Average Number of Books per Student          9.6         --          18.0
Teacher Qualification Rate                  39.1         --          91.0



- 20 -
TABLE 5C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-HUBEI PROVINCE
Key implementation indicators in SAR    1992 Estimate    Target     Actual
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate                     98.4          99.8       99.9
Girls Enrollment Rate                       98.3          99.5       99.6
Minority Children Enrollment Rate           98.5          99.7       99.7
Completion Rate                             84.1          93.0       95.0
Dangerous Buildings (%)                      3.0           1.0        0.7
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                   25.0           6.3        2.0
2. Efficiency
Repetition Grade I (%)                      12.0           3.8        1.5
Repetition in Primary School (1-6) (%)       3.9           3.2        1.5
Promotion of Primary Graduates (%)          60.9          65.0       99.9
Completion Rate for Primary Education (%)   80.0          84.0       99.8
Teaching Hours per Week                     29.0          26.0       35.4
Student/Teacher Ratio                       21.0          23.0       25.0
3. Quality
Average Number of Books per Student          5.9           7.0       12.5
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                 46.0         100.0       88.0
Teacher Qualification Rate                  38.0          95.0       95.0
SECONDARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate*                   271             --       318
Girls Enrollment Rate                       48.0          --         47.5
Minority Children Enrollment Rate           12.8          --         14.0
Dangerous Buildings'(%)                      3.5          --          0.5
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                   30.0          --          2.0
2. Efficiency
Student/Teacher Ratio                       14.0          --         20.0
Teaching Hours per Week                     25.0          --         33.0
3. Quality
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                 43.0          --         90.0
Average Number of Books per Student          6.5          --         18.0
Teacher Qualification Rate                  40.0          --         91.0



- 21 -
TABLE 5D: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-HUNAN PROVINCE
Key implementation indicators in SAR    1992 Estimate    Target     Actual
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate                      70.0         99.9       99.9
Girls Enrollment Rate                        95.6         99.0       98.9
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            96.5         98.0       99.0
Completion Rate                              90.4         94.0       96.6
Dangerous Buildings (%)                       4.0          1.0        0.4
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                     7.2         13.2       10.7
2. Efficiency
Repetition Grade I (C/)                       5.1          2.7        1.6
Repetition in Primary School (1-6) (%)        3.7          2.2        1.3
Promotion of Primary Graduates (%/6)         74.0         90.0       94.7
Completion Rate for Primary Education (%)    94.5         98.0       99.0
Teaching Hours per Week                      23.0         26.0       32.2
Student/Teacher Ratio                        21.4         23.0       24.0
3. Quality
Average Number of Books per Student           6.5          9.9       11.5
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                  37.7        100.0       98.7
Teacher Qualification Rate                   70.4         95.0       95.0
SECONDARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate*                    190.0         --        270
Girls Enrollment Rate                        42.5         --         45.3
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            24.0         --         35.3
Dangerous Buildings (%)                       3.5         --          0.5
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                    24.0         --          8.2
2. Efficiency
Student/Teacher Ratio                         4.5         --         15.8
Teaching Hours per Week                      13.0         --         34.3
3. Quality
Standard Equipment Sets (%/6)                45.0         --         98.0
Average Number of Books per Student           9.3         --         16.1
Teacher Qualification Rate                   67.6         --         91.0



- 22 -
TABLE 5E: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-SHAANXI PROVINCE
Key implementation indicators in SAR     1992 Estimate    Target     Actual
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate                     99.1         98.0        99.8
Girls Enrollment Rate                       98.7         98.0         99.3
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            --          95.0        97.5
Completion Rate                             82.0         80.0         91.7
Dangerous Buildings (%)                      6.6           1.5         1.0
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                   46.2           8.6         5.5
2. Efficiency
Repetition Grade I (%)                      13.2          8.3          3.2
Repetition in Primary School (1-6) (%)       5.1          3.2          2.7
Promotion of Primary Graduates (%)          50.3         89.0        95.6
Completion Rate for Primary Education (%)   98.5         84.0        91.7
Teaching Hours per Week                     21.9         26.0        25.0
Student/Teacher Ratio                       20.3         23.0        25.0
3. Quality
Average Number of Books per Student          3.6          9.0         15.0
Standard Equipment Sets (%/o)               20.0         100.0       100.0
Teacher Qualification Rate                  82.3         95.0        95.0
SECONDARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate*                   108.0          --         150.0
Girls Enrollment Rate                       47.2          --         48.2
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            3.6          4.0          4.1
Dangerous Buildings (%)                      6.3          2.3          1.5
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                   14.2          9.7          6.6
2. Efficiency
Student/Teacher Ratio                       15.1         16.0         10.0
Teaching Hours per Week                     12.7          14.0        16.0
3. Quality
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                 24.1         45.0        73.0
Average Number of Books per Student          9.8          15.0        20.0
Teacher Qualification Rate                  39.1         62.0         85.0



- 23 -
TABLE 5F: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-YUNNAN PROVINCE
Key implementation indicators in SAR    1992 Estimate    Target     Actual
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate                      92.4         95.0       98.0
Girls Enrollment Rate                        90.7         92.0       97.0
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            92.5         93.0       97.0
Completion Rate                              63.4         80.0       82.6
Dangerous Buildings (%)                       3.3          2.5        2.5
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                    13.6          9.0        8.0
2. Efficiency
Repetition Grade I (/O)                     14.2          6.0        7.3
Repetition in Primary School (1-6) (%)        8.1          3.0        3.5
Promotion of Primary Graduates (%/0)         50.9         70.0       75.0
Completion Rate for Primary Education (%)    55.8         70.0       73.0
Teaching Hours per Week                      27.9         30.0       30.5
Student/Teacher Ratio                        24.0         23.0       23.9
3. Quality
Average Number of Books per Student           0.7          7.0        7.2
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                   9.7         90.0       94.8
Teacher Qualification Rate                   73.3         80.0       98.0
SECONDARY EDUCATION
1. Access
Overall Enrollment Rate*                    131.6        151.0      158.0
Girls Enrollment Rate                        40.6         42.0       43.4
Minority Children Enrollment Rate            54.6         55.0       55.2
Dangerous Buildings (%/6)                     3.0          2.0        1.5
Dilapidated Buildings (%)                    13.5          9.0        7.7
2. Efficiency
Student/Teacher Ratio                        18.8         16.0       17.1
Teaching Hours per Week                      17.2         20.0       21.0
3. Quality
Standard Equipment Sets (%)                  45.9         95.0       97.4
Average Number of Books per Student           2.0          9.0        8.6
Teacher Qualification Rate                   57.9         70.        73.6



- 24 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Maintenance Funding for:                 Each Province has 5-year budget
Buildings                            For these activities (1999-2003)
Equipment
Teacher Training
Training                                 Each Province has 5 year plan for
Teacher                              Training (1999-2003)
Headmasters
Administration
Project Office                           Continue Operations of project
Office (province) for at least 5 years
MIS                                      Continue development and operations
Higher Education                         Continue monitoring project indicators



- 25 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study               Purpose as defined at           Status           Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Investigate status of Minban To determine current situation of Completed    Number of Minban
teachers                 Minban teachers: qualifications,                   teachers has been
training and economic issues                       decreasing since
1989study stresses
eliminating or
upgrading of Minban
situations.
Recommending that
study results be
published in book.
Repetition and dropout in   To review characteristics and  Completed        Research results
primary education        causes for high repetition rate.                   published during
Make recommendations to reduce                     project implementation
rate.                                              both were reduced.
Student Assessment Study                              Completed             Awareness has been
raised for improved
quality. Student
assessment;
standardized tests and
procedures have been
developed; and a
newsletter on student
assessment is published
and circulated among
the provinces.
Additional study and
development of student
assessment issues are
continuing.



- 26 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(RMB million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Item                                Local  Foreign    Total         Local Foreign      Total
Basic Education                     591.1   102.6    693.7         2031.7   283.7  2315.4
Higher Education                    103.1   74.1    177.2           357.8    95.2   353.0
Planning& Management                  8.4    7.6      16.0           11.2      2.9    14.1
Total Baseline Costs                702.6  184.3    886.9          2400.7   381.8  2682.5
Physical Contingency                 52.4   14.4      66.8
Price Contingency                   122.7   16.1    138.8
Total Project Costs                 877.7  214.8   1072.5          2400.7   381.8  2682.5



- 27 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate             ActuaL/latest estimate
Item                                 Local  Foreign    Total          Local  Foreign      Total
Basic Education                      111.2    18.9    130.1           348.8     39.6   388.4
Higher Education                      19.4    13.8      33.2           46.0     13.8    59.6
Planning & Management                  1.6     1.4       3.0            2.0      0.5      2.6
Total Baseline Costs                 132.2   34.1    166.3            396.8     53.9   450.6
Physical Contingency                   9.8    2.7       12.6
Price Contingency                     22.6     3.5     26.0
Total Project Costs                  164.6   40.3    204.9            396.8     53.9   450.6



- 28 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ mnillion)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/late estimate
Source              Local     Foreign     Total         Local    Foreign    Total
Municipal and County Govt.      37.8         0        37.8         256.2        0       256.2
Provincial Governments          37.1         0        37.1          65.8        0.1      65.9
IDA                             89.7        40.3     130.0          75.8       57.3     133.1
Total                          164.6        40.3     204.9         397.8       57.4    455.2



- 29 -
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original    Revised
Agree-                    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment        Section      type     Status     date        date       Description of covenant    Comments
3.0l.a                      03        C                             Borrower shall make credit   In compliance
funds available to Project
Provinces.
3.04                        09        C                             Annual Progress Report due   Complied with
April of each year.
3.05.a                      09        C     06/30/1995              Mid-term review             Took place 7/16/95-
8/3/95
3.05.b                      10       CP                             Borrower to assist in       Ongoing, Beijing
disseminating lessons and  University has signed
experience from studies and    agreement with
higher education reform,   provinces to conduct
including entering into   the activities. Studies
arrangements with a national  are still being
research institute or      conducted. Once
university to participate in  completed Beijing
evaluation.                University will
conduct the
dissemination
activities.
3.06.a                     11,03      C     05/31/1992              Open and maintain 6        Completed
separate revolving funds,
one for each Project
Province.
3.07.a                      10        C     12/31/1992              Selection ofProject         Shanxi selected by
Provincial Higher Education   Borrow.er and
Reform.                    approved by IDA.
3.07.b                      10        C     06/30/1995              Borrower to cause Project   Shanxi province
Province to carry out the  developed reform plan
Higher Education Reform.    and accompanying
activities. The Bank
reviewed progress
during mid-term
review 7/95.
3.01(b)ii                   01        C                             Annual audit reports due    In compliance;
August each year.          ongoing
Sch 2-2                     10       CP                             Provinces to prepare       Ongoing
construction and
rehabilitation plan for
following year. Due
December each year.
Sch 2-3                     10        C     12/31/1992              Provinces to prepare by     Received from all
12/31/92 (acceptable for   provinces 3/93
IDA) and carry out
maintenance plan.
Sch 2-4                     10       CP                             Province to carry out       Ongoing
maintenance of secondary
school equipment once a
year.
Sch 2-5                    10, 12     C     12/31/1992              Provinces to prepare teacher   Compliance
demand and supply
projections and actions
required to adjust supply
with demand.
Sch 2-7                    10,12     CP                             Enter into arrangement with    Ongoing
a Chinese institution for
MIS software development
and training.
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                        I = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 30 -
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
FY              1990     1991      1992     1993     1994    1995       1996    1997      1998    1999    Total
Prcappraisal     9.2     78.9                                                                               88.1
Appraisal                 6.5      29.0                                                                     35.5
Negotiations                       10.4                                                                     10.4
Supervision                       59.0      65.9     17.1     13.8     21.9      12.1      4.5      0.0   194.3
Completion                                                                                          4.5      4.5
Total         9.2     85.4      98.4     65.9     17.1     13.8     21.9      12.1      4.5      4.5   332.8



- 31 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
(US$ Million)
FY              1990    1991    1992    1993        1994    1995      1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
Preappraisal    14.0    189.3                                                                            203.3
Appraisal                20.6    64.9                                                                     85.5
Negotiations                      21.7                                                                    21.7
Supervision                       51.8    173.0    47.6      44.0     43.9     35.2     39.9       0.0   435.1
Completion                                                                                        10.1    10.1
Total        14.0     21.0    138.0   173.0    47.6    44.0        43.9    35.2       39.9     10.1   755.7
Performance rating
Specialized staff         Imple-
Stage of project cycle      Month/  Number of   Days   skills represented           mentation
year     persons    in field       /a                  status /b
Supervision 1                5/92        5          5    TM, SE, HE, EM,                2
DO
Supervision 2                1/93         7         17    TM, SE. HE, EM,               2
CS, HRS, EM
Supervision 3                9/93        4          6      TM, SE, EM, HE               2
Supervision 4                1/94        6          12      TM, SEd, SE,                2
HRS, OA
Supervision 5 (Midterm)      8/95        4          17    TM, GE, DO, OA                2
Supervision 6                8/96        3          22      TM, OA, DO                  2
Supervision 7                1/97        3          12      TM, OA, 00                  2
Supervision 8                6/98        3          15      TM, 00, HE                  2
Completion                   10/98       2          9         TM, SEd
/a DO: Disbursement Officer, EC: Economist, EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer, RA:
Research Analyst; RS Resettlement Specialist, TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist; TM: Task Manager; SE:
Senior Economist; SEd: Senior Educator; HE: Higher Education; EM: Education Management; HRS: Human Resource Specialist:
GE: General Education; CS: Computer Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.






- 33 -                     ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PREFACE
1.   Introduction. With the efforts and cooperation of all the parties concerned, the
tasks of EDPP project have been wholly accomplished, and the fixed targets are well hit.
Now the project is closed. According to the credit management procedure of the World
Bank, the borrower makes the following statements.
2.    Comments on the two parts of ICR. The borrower thinks, that, generally
speaking, the first part of ICR makes a clear description of the project targets, contents,
results and experiences, while the statistics listed in the tables of the second part are all
trustworthy. On the whole, the borrower agrees to the viewpoints. analysis and
suggestions made in the ICR.
3.    Project Background. In 1991, Chinese Government stated in The Outline of
National Economy Development Ten-year Program and the Eighth Five-year Plan of
China: "We will further disseminate the compulsory education of primary school and
secondary school in the light of local conditions. Attempts should be made to disseminate
compulsory education of primary school in the areas with 80 percent of the whole
population. and compulsory education of secondary education in areas with 30 percent of
the whole population within five years." To hit this strategic target, shorten the gap
between the poverty areas and the economically well developed areas, and help the
poverty areas to speed up the implementation of nine-year compulsory education, as well
as promote their economic and social development MOE set a strategic plan 6f three-
stage dissemination of nine-year compulsory education. MOE also decided to help some
less-developed provinces and districts first with the World Bank credit and counterpart
fluids. In 1991, MOE proposed a general constructive plan of implementing EDPP
project with the World Bank credit. On April 10, 1992, after getting approval of SPC and
MOF, and making thorough discussions and demonstrations with the World Bank, the
Chinese Government and the World Bank signed the Development Credit Agreement of
the EDPP project, which became effective on July 6, 1992.
4.    Project Targets. The overall target of the project is to promote the reform of the
current education system and structure in China, and improve the scale, efficiency and
quality of the primary schools, lower secondary schools and higher education institutions
in relatively poor provinces. The specific targets are: (1) to support the attainment of
universal primary education in 114 state-level and provincial-level poor counties in some
poor areas of Shanxi, Shaanxi, Guizhou, Yunnan, Hubei and Hunan; (2)to develop
appropriately the low-er secondary education in the above-mentioned areas; (3) promote
the adjustment of the layout and structure of 19 higher education institutes in the 6
provinces, and increase the quality and efficiency of these institutes; (4)to establish



- 34 -                     ANNEX A
educational MIS at both provincial and county levels in project areas, and enhance the
education policy making ability and management capabilities. The constructive contents
of the project is to provide necessary funds for civil works, teaching equipment, books,
furniture and technical assistance to the project schools.
5.    Project Implementation. EDPP is the first provincially managed project in the
World Bank funded educational projects. It consists of two parts: basic education, which
includes primary school and lower secondary school; and higher education, which
includes the first group of 9 institutions and the second group of 10 institutions. The
main characteristics of the project are the long preparation period, the extensiveness of
its contents and the lack of direct management experience. During the implementation of
the project, the World Bank, MOE, MOF and all the project implementing departments
each fulfilled its duty, and at the same time cooperated closely with each other and made
careful arrangement, which ensured all parts of the project to be implemented smoothly.
The project was closed on December 31, 1998 on time.
6.    To guarantee all the activities of the provincial organizations to be carried out
strictly according to the procedures of the World Bank and the Chinese Government, and
to accomplish all the planned tasks of the project and hit all the construction targets,
MOE not only strengthened the macro control and management of the project, but also
put emphasis on the training  and professional instruction to all the implementing
departments and staff of the project provinces, prefectures and counties. Therefore, all
the activities, which include civil work construction, goods (including equipment, books
and furniture) procurement, staff and teachers' training and technical assistance have been
accomplished successfully. The Bank will stop any reimbursement on April 30,1999.
Besides, the three special studies of the project, including Students Assessment, Minban
Teachers, and Repetition and Dropout, have been finished with written reports. The CEP
has done highly efficient adversary job, and provided many constructive ideas and
suggestions. The Future Higher Education Reform sub-project has been closed with
written report, and the merger and reorganization work of high education institutes is
completely finished. Most performance indicators of basic education and higher
education have reached or exceeded the fixed targets. The management ability of
provincial level and county level has been strengthened, and the construction of MIS is
finished and has come to work.
7.    However, there are still some problems in the project implementation. For
example, the experiences of special studies and higher education reform subproject have
not been spread out for lack of time. And because the project implementation and funds
disbursement were managed by different departments the fluids reimbursement was
affected to a certain degree.
8.    The borrower basically agrees to the detailed description and analysis made in
ICR about all the project parts, so further explanation will not be given here.



- 35 -                     ANNEX A
9.    Project Sustainability. The importance of the post-closure management and
sustainable development has been realized by the administrative authorities at all levels.
The MOE requires each local govemment to make its own project sustainable
development plan based on the summary of the project. The overall sustainable
development plan of the project is drawn up mainly on the basis of plans on education
development for the next a few years, as well as the development plan of the local
government. The basic elements of the plan are: (a) to urge the government at all levels to
maintain steady investment in the project in order to consolidate and expand the
achievement; (b) to make full use of the exemplary function of the First Basic Education
Project, applying its successful methods in other educational projects; (c) to promote the
research results of the special studies such as Student Assessment, and to spread out the
good experiences of the higher education reform sub-project and the merger and
reorganization of institutions; (d) to implement the funds investment plan at provincial.
municipal and county level on civil work maintenance, teacher training and other aspects
of the project; (e) to continue to conduct training for all kinds of staff and teacher; (f) to
increase investment in MIS at county level and gradually build up a multi-level (state-
province-prefecture-county) MIS network; (g) continue to focus on the reform of the 19
higher education institutes, further improve the institutional merger and reorganization
and the internal system reform under the project, so as to raise efficiency and set an
example for other colleges in these provinces; (h) to maintain the stability of credit
management personnel in management institutions of all levels, making full use of the
constant effects of human resource.
10.   World Bank's Performance. WB officials and consultants of sent to China all
possessed high professional and management ability. Some of them had worked
harmoniously with the Chinese Counterparts in previous projects. During the
implementation of the project, WB project task manager and consultants made many
constructive suggestions when visiting and supervising the project, and helped solve
some problems in project implementation, which contributed to the success of the whole
project. Due to lack of knowledge on the project implementation background in China,
however, at the stage of project appraisal and initial preparations the WB project task
manager decided on the principle of independent implementation by each province, with
the MOE only playing a supervisory role. As the provinces had never implemented and
managed such projects before, and the lack of experience had caused great difficulty in
the project implementation, thus hampered the implement process. Thereupon an
adjustment was made to expand the management function of the MOE, which greatly
facilitated the project implementation. Furthermore, frequent replacements of the project
task manager have to some extent interrupted policy consistency in project
implementation.
11.   Borrower's Performance. As this is the first project managed by the provinces,
at first the provinces were unfamiliar with the related World Bank procedures, especially
inexperienced for such complex multi-level project, together with the problem of
coordination between the implementation and disbursement, all these respects increased
the general difficulties in project implementation and management at the beginning. But



-36 -                      ANNEX A
with the cooperation between the MOE and the MOF, and through the coordination and
instruction of these two departments, the relations between various levels of authorities
were put in order. The management authorities of all levels learned the credit-related
provisions and procedures, and developed a group of relatively experienced management
staff, which guaranteed to accomplish the complex jobs including civil works bidding,
goods procurement, domestic staff and teacher training special studies and sending study
tours abroad. The Ministry of Education and the Chinese Expert Panel also conducted site
supervision over the project implementation in each province and county so as to find and
solve problems in time and strengthen professional instruction. The Ministry of
Education was responsible for coordinating the work of the provinces, the work of the
three central special study teams and Chinese Expert Panel, assisting the World Bank to
inspect the project sites, organizing international bidding procurement for project'
institutions, as well as sending persons from project institutions to study abroad. On the
whole, the Ministry of Education has fulfilled its duties in project implementation and
management.



-37-                       ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
A World Bank mission comprising Kazuko Ogawa (mission leader), Hu Wenbin
(RMC), and Chen Xiangming (consultant) visited China to review progress and discuss
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Education
Development in Poor Provinces (EDPP) Project. In Beijing it met with FILO/MOE and
representatives of MOE's Education Management Information Center, the Central
Institute of Education Research (in charge of the Student Assessment Study), and the
Chinese Experts Panel. The mission visited Guizhou to discuss project implementation
with provincial officials and to conduct site visits to project counties for the Basic
Education component (Puding and Ziyun Counties) and Guizhou University of
Technology for the Higher Education component. In Guiyang it held a two-day meeting
with representatives of all six provinces, followed by a wrap-up meeting on November 4.
Professor Feng Houzhi, Vice Chairman of the Chinese Experts Panel, also participated in
these meetings. The mission would like to thank FILO/MOE and Guizhou Provincial
Education Commission for the arrangements made and hospitality extended which made
the mission's work both productive and enjoyable.
1.    The Aide-Memoire summarizes observations, discussions and agreed next steps.
As usual, the contents of the Aide-Memoire is subject to review by World Bank
management upon the mission's return to Washington.
Background
2.    The Credit for the project will close on December 31, 1998. The mission was
pleased to learn that in its final year of implementation, most project activities had been
completed or were near completion, most progress monitoring indicators had been met or
even surpassed, and the Credit funds were expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
All six provinces reported that the project had made significant contributions to
popularizing nine-year basic education in their provinces, and to providing models for
improving internal efficiency and effective internal reorganization for higher education
institutions. The smooth implementation of the project was particularly impressive in
light of the fact that this project was a highly complex and complicated operation, with
many features incorporated for the first time in education projects in China. For example,
it was the first operation with MOE which had: multiple provinces participating and
having major implementation responsibilities; a major civil works component financed
by credit proceeds; a basic education component; an advisory panel comprising just
Chinese experts with no foreign input. It was also a complex operation in that it had both
a Basic and a Higher Education component, several activities in which the six provinces
all participated together as well as those they conduct by themselves, etc. The Basic



- 38 -                     ANNEX B
Education component of this project became the model for the Bank's three successive
Basic Education projects aimed at poor rural areas which are now under implementation,
viz., Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas, Third Basic Education and Fourth
Basic Education Projects.
3.    As the civil works, equipment and book procurement, and teacher and staff
training had been substantially completed by 1997 (with the exception of the third ICB
package for higher education which took place this year), in its discussions in Beijing and
with the six provinces in Guiyang, the present mission focused on: the few remaining
areas of project activities (the final phases of the TA activities such as the MIS, the three
Special Studies, the Shanxi Comprehensive Higher Education Reform Plan, etc); and the
provinces' plans for the Operational Phase of the project, including measures to ensure
sustainability of the project once the Credit is closed. It also discussed steps toward
preparations for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), in particular what would
be the expected inputs from FILO and from the six provinces.
Implementation Status
4.    MIS. The mission received a report from the Education Management Information
Center (EMIC) of MOE which summarized the activities organized by EMIC. The report
concluded that EMIC had fulfilled its obligations to the project provinces with regard to
the MIS development component as it had carried out most training activities and
developed the requested software. However, there were still some provinces which had
not procured all the software. EMIC complained that it has very limited administrative
control over the provincial EMICs, and there was no guarantee from EMIC/MOE on the
development of an overall national MIS network for education sector. Under these
circumstances, the sustainability of MIS component would be up to the planning and
actions of the each province. The mission was pleased to note that all project provinces
had paid attention to the further development of their own provincial MIS with adequate
staff assigned for the task, and draft plans were presented to the mission. However, the
mission expressed its concern on the timely replacement of computers as most of the
computers were purchased at least three years ago. Fortunately, the Finance Department
of MOE had allocated RMB30 million to buy new computers for each county to build a
national network on education financing management. The mission requested the
provinces to take advantage of this opportunity to plan the continuous development of
MIS and sustain and expand the benefits of this component. The provinces would revise
their plans for the further expansion of MIS in their final provincial ICRs including a
plan on how to use their EMICs to monitor the project indicators progress even after the
project is closed.
5.    Studies. The three studies -- on student assessment, minban teachers and drop-
out/repetition -- would be finished by the end of this year. While the Bank mission in
June had been informed that all three draft final reports would be ready by the time of the
present mission (cf para 27 of the June 1998 supervision mission Aide-Memoire), in both
Chinese and English, none of these were ready as the study teams were still doing the



- 39 -                       ANNEXB
final summary and review of the study results.' The mission reminded the teams that
there was no more time to lose as this project will be closed in less than two months and
urged them to submit the reports to FILO/MOE and the Bank without any further delay.
6.    The mission urged FILO/MOE and the provinces to make plans for dissemination
of the research achievements as the research completion was just the starting point of the
function for the studies, and some results may lose their reference if the dissemination
activities would not follow immediately. For example, the research conclusions from the
minban teachers study would have very limited impact on policy making if the
dissemination work could not be done quickly as most provinces would have solved the
problem by the year 2000. The study teams and CEP had expressed their reservations
about how to disseminate the research results as this was something beyond their full
control and capacity. The mission discussed this matter with the provinces, FILO/MOE
and CEP, and agreed that: (a) the study teams should produce a series of newsletters to
summarize their research findings and send to each province and the relevant
departments/MOE at least three copies each of the newsletters; (b) the study teams should
try to publish the reports at national or local magazines; (c) the reports should be
presented and distributed at relevant seminars and workshops in future by the study team
members whenever and wherever suitable.
7.    In Guiyang the six project provinces provided oral and written presentations on
their implementation status. As 1998 was the final year for the project, the activities
taking place in 1998 were limited to the third ICB (contracts have been signed and the
equipment is in the course of arriving), some supplementary book procurement; final
phases of the three Special Studies; three overseas study tours (on science education,
multigrade education and MIS); and residual staff development. The civil works,
equipment/book procurement and teacher and headmaster training for basic education had
been mostly completed by 1997. With regard to the outstanding dissemination activities
of the Higher Education component, the representative from Shanxi Province used the
present forum to share the experience and findings of the Shanxi Comprehensive Higher
Education Reform Plan with the other five provinces, FILO and CEP. The CEP provided
helpful comments on the significance and relevance of this exercise, in particular the
studies on Labor Market Survey and the Evaluation Methods. It was agreed the reports of
the studies and other relevant documentation of the Shanxi Comprehensive Higher
Education Reform Plan would be circulated to the other project provinces and to the
MOE departments concerned. The project provinces, FILO and CEP also had a
discussion on how the 19 project institutions of the Higher Education component should
be disseminated. It was decided that the factual information regarding the internal
restructuring and mergers of these institutions, and the role played by the programs
carried out under this project, should be written up and disseminated to the relevant
central and provincial government agencies. Informing the government agencies about
The central study teams are: Central Institute for Education Research for the Student Assessment study; Beijing
Normal University for the Minban Teacher study; and Peking University Institute for Higher Education for the
Repetition/Drop-out study. Each has couterpart teams at the provincial level.



- 40 -                      ANNEX B
this experience was considered particularly important for the lessons learnt through this
project to be reflected in the provincial higher education plans, and also since several key
factors in attaining higher internal efficiency are subject to government regulations, such
as the permissible enrollment level and tuition level. During its preparation of the
provincial ICR, each province would think of other effective ways of disseminating
information about this component, and this would be reflected in the Borrower's section
of the ICR and Operational Plan.
8.    Regarding the progress monitoring indicators, most indicators had met or
surpassed their intended target. This was indeed an impressive achievement, and even
more so when compared to the base year figures. However, there were a few which had
not met the goal, such as student/teacher ratio in basic education and unit recurrent cost
for higher education. The mission suggested that in the final evaluation these indicators
which had not met the target still be listed in their original form and the reason(s) for the
non-attainment be explained. Evaluation is carried out not in order to pass judgment on
performance or assign blame, but to learn important lessons from the project experience.
For example, the unit recurrent cost for higher education institutions rose rather than
declined in most cases. This was due, among other factors, to high rates of inflation and
wage reform during the project period, and the higher costs of inputs and maintenance
associated with the more advanced equipment the higher education institutions acquired
under the project. The lessons learnt here were that external circumstances or policies
beyond the control of the institutions can change, and that efficiency may take time to be
realized, often preceded by an initial increase in costs.
Plans for Ensuring Sustainability
9.    The provinces also reported on their preliminary plans for ensuring sustainability
in the operational phase of the project. The mission recognized that the momentum and
macro background for the sustainability of the project benefits were quite sound as the
provinces were mobilizing all available resources for universalizing nine years
compulsory education including the State's Compulsory Education Project. The mission
reminded the provinces that the sustainability plans were not only financial plans for the
further development of the project activities, but also the management standardization
plans to maintain and strengthen the various benefits of the project. To this end the
mission requested that the provinces draft their plans with a clear understanding on the
financial input for five years after the project completion, for the school building and
equipment maintenance, and for teacher and principals training. Management regulations
on the maintenance measures should also be included. With the help from the Bank,
FILO/MOE would develop the relevant tables for the preparation of the plans and
distribute the tables to the provinces with the notice mentioned above. This would, in
turn, form an input to the Operational Plan to be prepared by FILO/MOE.
10.   The mission learnt from the provinces' preliminary plans on the sustainability
some valuable and worthwhile ideas for sharing and further probing, such as:



- 41-                       ANNEXB
(a) Provincial FILOs should issue a specific circular to the counties to provide
guidance on how to ensuure sustainability of the project benefits;
(b) The earmarked funds for the support of education development in the
project counties from the provincial government should be sustained and
expanded;
(c) The provincial FILOs should be maintained for at least 5 years after the
project closing;
(d) Monitoring indicators would continue to be collected by the provincial and
county MIS staff;
(e) Investment fund from the different resources or programs should be
strategically combined, to be used to sustain and build on the
achievements of the project in the counties; and
(f) A larger part of the education surcharge collected in the counties would be
used for operational maintenance and training, since due to the virtual
phasing out of minban teachers by the year 2000, it would no longer be
necessary to pay the salaries of minban teachers out of this fund.
Implementation Completion Reporting
11.   The mission discussed preparatory activities and expected inputs from FILO and
the provinces for compiling the ICR. The mission explained that the Borrower was
responsible for:
(a) preparing its own final evaluation report on the project. The evaluation report
will be attached unedited to the ICR and should include:
i. an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and
operation experience;
ii. an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that
may be relevant in the future;
iii. an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship
between the borrower and the Bank, with special emphasis on lessons
learned;
(b) adopting a plan for the operational phase of the project [the Operational Plan],
and defining, together with the Bank, the performance indicators to be used to
monitor operations and development impact; and
(c) assisting the Bank in ICR preparation. This support generally consists of:
i. providing the Bank with all necessary information on the economic,
financial, social, institutional and environmental conditions in which the
project was implemented, and on implementation and operation results
(according to the timing specified in the Loan Agreement);
ii. providing feedback on the quality of the Bank's contribution, from project
identification to supervision; and



-42 -                      ANNEX B
iii. providing comment on the Bank staff's draft ICR within two months of
receiving it.
12.   The mission discussed what information should be provided by the provinces.
Since this project had a set of monitoring indicators agreed at the time of appraisal and
recorded in the SAR, providing these would be straightforward for most activities. These
indicators are listed in Annex 1. The mission also discussed with the provinces details of
the preparation of the provincial ICRs.. The meeting reached the agreement on the
following steps for the ICR preparation, by FILO/MOE and the provincial FILOs:
(a) FILO/MOE would issue a notice with detailed instructions on how to prepare the
ICRs to the project provinces by November 30, 1998, with a list of data to be
collected based on Annex 1;
(b) All provinces should submit their ICRs by March 1, 1999, and FILO/MOE should
summarize and present its own ICR by April 1, 1999;
(c) Shanxi's tables should be used to be the model in collecting the data requested by
the Bank while the annual figures should be included, as Guizhou did;
(d) provinces should use their own feasibility reports (using baseline figures from the
time of the appraisal) as the base for drafting the ICRs and use the indicators in a
consistent and unified way with the SAR. For example, the indicators for the
higher education institutions should be the same as those in the Annex 13 of the
SAR;
A detailed plan on the sustainability of the project benefits should be one of the most
important parts of the ICRs.
13.   Regarding the Operational Plan, FILO had submitted its draft to the mission at the
initial meeting in Beijing. The mission understood that this document was intended as a
draft outline covering both the Borrower's section of the ICR and the plan for the
operational phase rather than a draft of the Operational Plan, and that the specific
measures to be articulated in the Operational Plan would be drafted based on the
discussions during the two days in Guiyang with the project provinces and on the
provincial ICRs. FILO/MOE confirmed that given its experience in drafting Operational
Plans for several earlier projects, it was aware of what needed to be covered in this
document and indicated that it would take note of the points raised in para 10 - 11  above.
14.  It was agreed that the Bank would send FILO its section of the draft ICR by
December 20, 1998. FILO should send the Borrower's comments within two months as
noted in para 13, i.e., February 20, 1999. The Borrower's section would be sent to the
Bank by April 1, 1999. The various indicators would also be sent to the Bank by April 1,
1999. The CEP would send its Completion Report to the Bank and MOE/FILO by
January 31, 1999.
Guizhou Observations:



-443 -                     ANNEXB
15.   From Oct. 29-30, the mission visited two project counties (Puding County, a
project experimental site inhabited mainly by Hans, and Ziyun County, an impoverished
Miao and Buyi Minorities Autonomous Region). It conducted site visits to 13 primary
schools and one county-level training center. (Guizhou province participated only in the
primary education part of the basic education component). It was pleased to learn that the
project had produced remarkable improvement in the basic education of Guizhou
Province. Most of the performance indicators had been fulfilled or exceeded, and the
project had become a model in design and implementation for other projects in the
province.
16.   The civil works in the province had exceeded the target by 103.9% for the new
and renewed school buildings and by 141.6% for repair. The mission found the
buildings in the project schools in good condition, and well taken care of. Abiding by the
provincial regulations about the maintenance of school property, the schools were
implementing a "a level-by-level responsibility system", in which people involved were
required to pay for the damage that occurred at their level. Since the buildings required
regular maintenance and repair due to natural decay, the mission urged the provincial and
county governments to ensure sufficient fund to the schools for this purpose.
17.   Having become an indispensable part of teaching and learning in the project
schools, the equipment procured with the project fund was in good use as well. All the
schools reported that the teaching instruments had made student learning more visual,
interesting and relevant than before. The mission noticed that more teaching aids, spare
parts and consumable could be provided so as to increase student participation.
18.  In the 13 schools visited by the mission, the number of books per student had
increased dramatically during the life of the project. The schools had set up a standard
filing system for the books, and the frequency of the book loans was reported high, with
some of the school libraries open to the local community. In general, the books were
conducive to broadening the views of teachers and students, except that there were not
enough books for first and second graders, nor sufficient dictionaries or extracurricular
readings on nature, social studies and after-school activities. The mission cautioned the
schools to pay more attention to the demands of the users in future procurement.
19.   Training. The training of school principals, teachers and project managers in
Guizhou province surpassed the targets by great margins both in number and in kinds. In
terms of person/times and person/months, 1739% and 1213% of the originally planned
targets had been completed, and the kinds of training included teacher training (academic
qualifications, multi-grade teaching, bilingual education, lab teaching, new textbook
usage, pre-service training, continuing education, minor subject matter training, degree
training, computer training) and principal training. The training had been conducted with
a graded system, from the provincial level down to the teaching point, and the time for
the training varied from 3 days to one month during vacations, or 6 months to 2 years
through correspondence education or television school. As a result of the training, the
qualification rate of teachers had increased from 64.5% in 1991 to 94.7% in 1997. The



- 44 -                       ANNEX B
mission was glad to hear that since the demand on fund for civil works had been reduced
as a result of the project, and Minban teachers' subsidies were diminishing with the
disappearance of this category, more teachers and principals could be expected to receive
training in the future with the special fund (e.g. educational surtax) set aside by the local
government.
20.   Teacher Training. All the teachers that the mission interviewed reported
positive effect of the training. They were transferring what they had learned into their
daily teaching activities by focusing more on the comprehensive competence of students
than simply transmitting knowledge for tests. Most of the trainees on bilingual
education, for example, reported that the training had made them more aware of the
difficulties that minority students might have in learning the Han language, and were
accordingly giving them more individual attention. The mission also learned that,
according to the state's policy, within the 9-5th plan from 1996 to 2000, all primary
school teachers were required to receive continuing education, which would be one of the
strategies to sustain the benefits of the training in the Bank project..
21.   While the training had produced very positive impact on teacher qualifications,
the mission also had some concerns. It seemed that the training in the project mostly
increased the number of trainees rather than devising innovative ways to improve
substantially the quality of training. Both the trainers and trainees seemed to be more
focused on the contents of subject matters than on pedagogy. Advanced education
philosophy and pedagogy needed to be more organically integrated into the training on
subject matters. The mission suggested that since the qualification of teachers with
regard to academic degrees and subject matters was fulfilled, due attention should be paid
to pedagogy in order to enhance student participation and capacity to learn independently.
22.   Since there were still 10 % multi-grade teaching classes in the province, the
mission was also concerned about the overall quality of teaching in these places. As
teachers in these teaching points lived very far from the village center or the county site
and usually had very heavy work load, they had far fewer opportunities to receive training
of any kind than the average teacher. The mission believed that more attention should be
given to these teachers, who needed the training most, with appropriate curriculum and
teaching materials.
23.   In the area of bilingual education, the main objective in all the schools seemed to
be helping minority students to learn the Han language, using their native tongues for
translation and explanation. Aware of the importance of learning the Han language for
further development, the mission also called for more relevance of the training for
different ethnic groups and the issues involved in this area. Based on its observation, the
mission believed that training of teachers for this purpose need to be strengthened in the
future.
24.   The mission also noticed the importance of training for "minor subjects matters"
like music, arts and physical training. Since most of the teacher training schools at the



- 45 -                      ANNEX B
county level did not have such majors for lack of fund and faculty, most of the courses in
these fields were taught by teachers who were simultaneously teaching other "major"
subjects such as math and Chinese. Since the chance to get this kind of training was still
rather limited for teachers, the mission recommended more such training for those in
need.
25.   As the number of Minban teachers was diminishing, more and more temporary
(Daike) teachers appeared to fill the vacancies left by them in remote, desolated,
mountainous areas with very low salary. The mission was concerned about the quality
and welfare of these teachers in the long run, and hoped that they would receive training
needed as well.
26.   Since most of the principals and teachers whom the mission met with expressed
desire to have more and longer training, the mission recommended that the already
existing peer consultation practice be strengthened. This kind of training, according to
the local educators, could be more substantial to teachers since it was closely tied in with
the practical difficulties that teachers encountered in their daily work. If undertaken free
of pressure due to competition, this kind of training was said to be more empowering to
teachers than the top-down strategy. The mission pointed out that given the scarce
resources in the province this kind of training could be conducted more actively and
frequently in combination with other kinds of training.
27.   The link between the attendance of female students and the role played by female
teachers in school also called the mission's attention in its site visits, especially in the
poor, isolated mountainous areas inhabited by minorities. In one of the poorest schools,
there were only 80 female students among the total of 250, and all 10 teachers were male.
When some temporary female teachers left the school last year and this year, over 40
female students dropped out. It was said to be a trend in the province: the poorer the
area, the fewer female teachers; as fewer girl students graduated from basic education,
fewer came back to serve their homeland. The mission was glad to hear that some
counties had tried to attract female minority students in poor areas by providing free
tuition and boarding to them. Some school principals had been trying to do "ideological
work" with the parents of female students, or use legal and administrative means to force
the parents to send their daughters to school. The mission believed that more government
policies and strategies should be implemented, and incentives provided to attract more
female teachers to work in poor areas, thus contributing to the increase of female
attendance.
28.   Principal Training. All the principals interviewed said that the training was
successful in helping them to learn the advanced management theories and methods.
They had learned how to implement state policies and regulations, and how to unite
teachers and staff by helping them solve their daily survival difficulties and involving
them in decision-making process. Student evaluation had shifted from test scores only to
the overall development of students with regard to their moral conscience, diligence,
capacity to do things with their own hands, and academic achievement. The principals



- 46 -                      ANNEXB
were now using a "target management" strategy in administering personnel, finance and
materials, with responsibilities more clearly defined and allocated among people
concerned. As all the principals had received training for qualification, the mission
suggested that more attention be paid to their continuing education in the future.
29.   The mission visited Guizhou University of Technology (GUT) on November 2.
Originally known as Guizhou Institute of Technology, GUT had received USD2.3 million
under the project to support its internal restructuring. The funds were used to: purchase
equipment for the computer center, material testing and analysis center and the CAD
center; staff development (12 abroad and 25 in China); TA (30 foreign teachers taught at
GUT); and participation in overseas study tours by the president and vice president. Civil
works and complementary equipment purchase were carried out with counterpart funds.
30.   Substantial qualitative and quantitative progress had taken place since 1991.
Student enrollment then was 3,650 and faculty 702; this has increased to 7,326 (of which
5,439 are full-time undergraduates) and 630, respectively, by 1997. This has resulted in
the student/teacher ratio increasing from 5.2 to 11.3, exceeding the expected target of
10.0 for the year 2000. Most of the indicators had attained or surpassed the target,
although unit recurrent cost had increased as was the case of other institutions under this
project for which the reasons were known (see para 9). The 26 specialties which existed
in 1991 was now reduced to 20, while new specialties reflecting the needs of the
provincial economy were established. The latter included computer scienes, applied
electronics, industrial design and marketing, etc. In 1994, GUT merged with the Guizhou
Architecture School. This was a merger -- which was not part of project design -- was a
merger in substance (as opposed to just form) and this allowed GUT to further increase
its economies of scale and efficiency.
31.   The mission was pleased to see that the equipment purchased was being used by
students, faculty and external research and industrial institutions. The utilization rate of
the computer center was particularly high. Aside from sharing equipment, it was evident
that over the project period GUT had been strengthening its ties with local industries,
research institutions and academic institutions, and that its specialty offerings were also
adjusted to reflect the requirements of the local economy. GUT clearly had a key role to
play in the development of the province, which was still one of the less developed in
China. It urged the GUT leadership to keep up its efforts to increase facilities utilization
rates, student/teacher ratios, etc., even after project completion, as there was still scope
for improvement.
Disbursements and Remaining Funds:
32.   Credit allocation and reallocation: The Ministry of Finance (MOF) provided the
mission with a report on the use of credit proceeds, by province and disbursement
categories, as was promised during the June supervision mission.



- 47 -                    ANNEXB
33.   The mission informed MOE and the six provinces that the Bank had completed
the necessary consultation and documentation for the category reallocation requested by
MOF, and that MOF should be receiving the amendment letter signed by Mr. Huang
(China Country Director) shortly.
34.   The Credit balance as recorded by the Bank is now about SDR2.9 million, or
approximately USD4.1 million. This would be spent on the third ICB for which contracts
totaling USD3.3 million had been signed, and for some remaining reimbursement
applications for the other categories including Guizhou's civil works. MOE/FILO would
like to avail itself of the "optional four months" and have the Credit account left open
until April 30, 1999. The mission agreed to follow up on the necessary procedures and
inform MOF and MOE formally upon its return to Washington.



