Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2339 CHA
(Education Development in Poor Provinces Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GUIZHOU PROVINCE
HUBEI PROVINCE
HUNAN PROVINCE
SHAANXI PROVINCE
SHANXI PROVINCE and
YUNNAN PROVINCE
Dated April 10, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2339 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and the PROVINCES OF GUIZHOU, HUBEI, HUNAN, SHAANXI, SHANXI, and 
YUNNAN of the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Project Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
ninety-three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 93,200,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project within its territory with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and education practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
carrying out the Project within its territory.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Provinces shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out the Project in its territory in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) The Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Project 
Provinces of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Project Provinces shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Project Provinces responsible for 
carrying out the Project.
(b)
The Project Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
eight months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
Page  3
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Project Provinces 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
Page  4
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Guizhou Province:
Guizhou Province
Zhong Hua Bei Lu
Guiyang
Guizhou Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
66002 GZFAO CN
For Hubei Province:
Hubei Province
Shui Guo Hu, Wuchang District
Wuhan
Hubei Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
40202 HRFAO CN
For Hunan Province:
Hunan Province
Wu Yi Zhong Lu
Changsha 410011
Hunan Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
98122 HPFAO CN
For Shaanxi Province:
Shaanxi Province
Xin Cheng District
Xi'an
Shaanxi Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
70025 SOFAO CN
For Shanxi Province:
Shanxi Province
Fu Dong Jie
Taiyun
Shanxi Province
Page  5
People's Republic of China
Telex:
28014 SPFAO CN
For Yunnan Province:
Yunnan Province
Wu Hua Shan
Kunming
Yunnan Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
64075 FAOYN CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each Project 
Province, or by each Project
Province on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Governor or Vice-Governor of such Project Province, or such 
other person or persons as the Governor or Vice-Governor shall designate in writing, 
and each Project Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GUIZHOU PROVINCE
HUBEI PROVINCE
HUNAN PROVINCE
SHAANXI PROVINCE
SHANXI PROVINCE and
YUNNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  6
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
The following items may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association: 
(A)
civil works;
 
(B)
furniture for primary and lower secondary schools;
 
(C)
books; and
 
(D)
teaching equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of $31,500,000. 
2.
Equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,400,000 total 
for the Project and $1,400,000 total per Project Province, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Minor civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $24,000,000 total 
for the Project and $4,000,000 total
per Project Province, may be carried out by force account.
4.
Contracts for furniture for remote, rural schools may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with suppliers, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 total 
for the Project and $300,000 total per Project Province in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (a) technical assistance, studies and 
research; (b) the first civil works contract in each Project Province; and (c) goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such 
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract. 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
Page  7
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Project Provinces in carrying out the Project, Provinces 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Each Project Province will carry out its Primary Education Action Plan and its 
Lower Secondary Education Action Plan in accordance with the terms of each such 
Education Plan, including providing reports based on the progress indicators included 
in such Plan to the Borrower and made available to the Association on a semiannual 
basis.
2.
Each Project Province shall:
 
(a)
by December 31 of each year during Project implementation, furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment, a plan based on criteria acceptable to the 
Association, for school construction and rehabilitation to take place in each county 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the next calendar year; and
(b)
ensure that all school construction and rehabilitation financed under the 
Project is in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association.
3.
Each Province shall:
 
(a)
by December 31, 1992, provide to the Association a school maintenance 
plan acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
carry out the plan in accordance with its terms.
 
4.
Each Project Province shall carry out or cause to be carried out maintenance of 
equipment provided to lower secondary schools on at least an annual basis, including 
provision of any spare parts
required for maintenance.
5.
Each Project Province shall, by December 31, 1992, provide to the Association a 
plan to improve the structure of pre-service teacher training, including carrying out 
teacher supply and demand projections and detailing actions required to adjust the 
supply of teachers to projected demand.
6.
Each Project Province shall participate in a midterm review of the progress of 
carrying out the Project in its territory by no later than June 30, 1995.
7.
Each Project Province shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Association, with:
(a)
a key national research institution or university, acceptable to the 
Association, with the assistance of an international education institution when 
Page  8
appropriate, for purposes of monitoring and evaluating reform under the higher 
education pilot projects under Part B of the Project; and
(b)
a Chinese institution with qualifications acceptable to the Association, 
for purposes of developing software and providing training for the management 
information system under Parts C.1 and
C.2 of the Project.
8.
Each Project Province shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to 
counties for purposes of carrying out the Project on the same terms and conditions as 
the Project Province has received the proceeds of the Credit, except that (a) the 
Project Province shall bear all foreign exchange risks, and (b) the Project Province 
may make the proceeds of the Credit available on more concessional terms than it has 
received, when appropriate, taking into consideration the poverty level of the county 
concerned.
