Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2339 CHA
(Education Development in Poor Provinces Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 10, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2339 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Provinces of Guizhou, Hubei, 
Hunan, Shaanxi, Shanxi and Yunnan (the Project Provinces) with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to each 
Project Province a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Education Action Plans" means the Lower Secondary Education Plan and 
Primary Education Action Plan (as both terms are hereinafter defined) provided by a 
Project Province to the Association;
(b)
"Lower Secondary Education Action Plan" means the plan to implement the 
policies, actions and other measures designed by a Project Province (except Guizhou 
Province) for improving lower secondary education (grades 6 or 7 - 9) in the poorest 
counties of such Project Province and provided by such Project Province to the 
Association, including criteria for determining progress made and a system for 
reporting progress made;
(c)
"Primary Education Action Plan" means the plan to implement the policies, 
actions and other measures designed by a Project Province for improving primary 
education (grades 1 - 5 or 6) in the poorest counties of such Project Province and 
provided by such Project Province to the Association, including criteria for 
determining progress made and a system for reporting progress made;
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and the 
Project Provinces, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(e)
"Project Provinces" means Guizhou, Hubei, Hunan, Shaanxi, Shanxi and 
Yunnan Provinces; "Project Province" means any one of such Project Provinces; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ninety-three million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 93,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2002 and ending October 1, 2026. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2011 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  4
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Borrower through its State Education Commission, shall cause the 
Project Provinces to perform all their respective obligations set forth in the Project 
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Project Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
Project Provinces on terms and conditions and in accordance with arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project shall 
be carried out by the Project Provinces pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to any other reporting requirements under this 
Agreement and the General Conditions, the Borrower shall provide to the Association on 
an annual basis, aggregated reports of the progress indicators provided by the Project 
Provinces pursuant to the Education Action Plans.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
participate in a midterm review of the progress of carrying out the 
Project in each of the Provinces by no later than June 30, 1995;
(b)
assist in disseminating lessons and experiences drawn from the studies 
carried out under Part A.2 of the Project and the higher education reforms carried out 
under Parts B and E of the Project, to the Project Provinces and to other Provinces in 
China, including entering into arrangements with a national research institution or 
university, with qualifications acceptable to theAssociation, to  participate in 
evaluating such lessons and experiences.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1992, open and maintain, or 
cause to be opened and maintained, six separate revolving funds, one for the benefit 
of each Project Province, for purposes of financing local expenditures under the 
Project, including making an initial deposit from the Borrower's own funds into each 
revolving fund of an amount equivalent to three months' local expenditures under the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make deposits, or shall cause deposits to be made, 
into each such revolving fund on a monthly basis of amounts sufficient to maintain a 
balance equivalent to the initial deposit. Such deposits shall be made from the 
Borrower's own funds or the respective Project Province's own funds.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall select a Project Province for purposes of 
carrying out Part E of the Project and shall inform the Association of such selection 
by December 31, 1992.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause such Project Province to carry out Part E of the 
Project, including developing the reform proposal under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, by the midterm review referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting expenditures for which payments are made 
out of the Special Account;
(b)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than eight months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that a Project
Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have 
approved this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding upon 
each such Project Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  6
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment,               28,660,000        100% of foreign
Page  7
     books and                                  expenditures,
     materials                                  100% of local
     under Parts                                expenditures
     A.3 (c), B.1                               (ex-factory
     and C.2 of                                 cost) and 75%
     the Project                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2) (a)  Civil works and      40,120,000        70%
         furniture for
         primary educa-
         tion under Part
         A.3 (a) of the
         Project
    (b)  Civil works and       2,920,000        40%
         furniture for
         lower secondary
         education under
         Part A.3 (a) of
         the Project
(3)   Consultants'             5,020,000        100%
      services, studies
      and overseas
      training
(4)   Teacher training         3,580,000        50%
(5)   Unallocated             12,900,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                93,200,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve efficiency and quality of 
primary and lower secondary schools and student attendance with the aim of achieving 
an effective nine-year compulsory education system; (b) to support the development and 
restructuring of higher education and the efficient use of resources by colleges and 
universities; and (c) to improve provincial education planning, financing and 
management systems.
The Project consists of the following parts to be carried out by each Project 
Province in its territory, except Part E of the Project which shall be carried out by 
a Project Province selected by
the Borrower, and is subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Basic Education
Page  8
1.
Carrying out: (a) primary education action plans; and (b) lower secondary 
education action plans which include:
(i)
improving access to education by increasing the number of schools 
that offer all 
grade levels, increasing the number of 
multigrade classes, providing free text 
books and free 
tuition to poor children and expanding the tuition exemption 
programs by which poor families are assisted with the costs of educating their 
children;
(ii)
improving the efficiency of schools in order to reduce student 
repetition of 
grades;
 
(iii)
improving resource management in township schools by increasing 
student-teacher 
ratios, studying the supply of and demand for 
teachers over the period 1990-1998, 
and improving budgeting 
and teacher workload planning;
(iv)
improving teaching methods and qualifications of teachers; and
 
(v)
improving the living and working conditions of minban teachers 
(community-supported teachers).
 
2.
Carrying out studies to identify problems in meeting the terms of the Education 
Action Plans and remedial actions required to meet the progress indicators set forth 
in the Education Action Plans.
3.
(a)
Construction and rehabilitation of schools with priority given in the 
following order:
(i)
to replacement of condemned buildings;
 
(ii)
to construction of classrooms in areas where per-student space is 
inadequate;
(iii)
to construction of substitute buildings for damaged buildings; and
 
(iv)
to relocation of schools to areas more conducive to promoting 
student attendance.
(b)
Carrying out maintenance of school buildings and equipment.
 
(c)
Furnishing and equipping of schools.
 
4.
Training of teachers through:
 
(a)
training teachers for multigrade schools;
 
(b)
in-service training of science teachers;
 
(c)
training of bilingual teachers in areas with minority students; and
 
(d)
training of minban teachers to improve academic qualifications.
 
Part B:
Higher Education
 
1.
Carrying out pilot projects at selected provincial universities to improve 
resource utilization, implement institutional reforms and meet labor market 
requirements.
2.
Evaluation of such pilot projects and dissemination of the lessons and 
experiences drawn from the pilot projects through seminars, workshops and training.
Part C:
Planning, Finance and Management Systems
 
1.
Development of computer software to plan and manage the education system at the 
Page  9
provincial level.
2.
(a)
Technical assistance in establishing, and training county-level staff in 
the use of, computerized management information systems.
(b)
Provision of computers for management information systems.
 
3.
(a)
Improving the systems for examining students and assessing student 
academic achievement.
(b)
Overseas training in student assessment techniques and dissemination of 
techniques to improve student examination results through teacher training local 
seminars.
Part D:
Project Management
 
1.
Training of project staff in administration, bidding and procurement practices, 
accounting procedures and construction management.
2.
Technical assistance through financing a panel of experts to review and monitor 
project implementation.
Part E:
Provincial Higher Education Reforms
 
Developing a comprehensive proposal of reforms to improve higher education 
institutions in a Project Province, including the measures required to carry out the 
reforms.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)-(4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
Page  10
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals in respect of the respective Parts of the Project should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  11
