Report No. PID8649
Project Name                     Tajikistan-Lake Sarez Emergency Mitigation (@
Project (LSEMP)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project                          TJPE67610
Borrower(s)                      The Government Of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency              Ministry Of Emergency Situations
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 7, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 29, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Formation of the Lake Sarez and the nature of the problem. The territory
of Tajikistan is very prone to natural hazards, and Lake Sarez probably
constitutes the most dangerous of such hazards. The Lake Sarez was created
in 1911 when a 2.2 billion cubic meters (BCM) of landslide, caused by an
earthquake in the Pamir Mountain range, blocked the Murghab River Valley.
The landslide buried the Usoi village with its inhabitants. The landslide
dam was given the name of that village. The river soon rose and formed a
lake approximately 60 kilometers (km) in length and containing close to 17
BCM, roughly half of Lake Geneva or three times lake Shasta (California).
During its formation, the lake submerged the village of Sarez which gave
the name to the water body. The natural dam is located at an altitude of
over 3200 meters (m). With a height of 550 to 650 m, it is the highest of
any dam, both natural and man-made, in the world.
Available reports on Lake Sarez describe the Usoi obstruction as a
colossal dam of questionable stability and suggest that if a strong
earthquake occur in the vicinity of the lake, the dangerous "right bank",
a partially collapsed body of earth and rock with a mass of roughly 2
BCM, could fall in the lake, generating an enormous wave which would
overtop the natural dam and possibly wash it away. The generated flood
could affect up to 5 million people living along the Bartang, Pyandhz, and
Amu Darya rivers, a path traversing Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan
and Turkmenistan.
Current monitoring and warning system. In 1988, the FSU installed an early
warning system based on data transmission via satellite designed to alert
Moscow and Dushanbe of an outburst flow from Lake Sarez. The system was
developed to warn the inhabitants of the lower reaches of the Amu Darya
Basin after an elapsed time of about seven hours, but not the population
in the Bartang Valley living below the lake. The system is no longer
operational. The warning instruments have been abandoned, and the only
system in place at the moment is a radio that links the lake and Dushanbe.
The current monitoring system of the Lake Sarez consists of two
hydrometric stations located on the Bartang river and one of its



tributary. When the flood levels rise above pre-determined warning
elevations, the system sends an automatic signal to the Usoi Master
Station via cable connection, which is then forwarded via satellite to
Dushanbe. During summer, and occasionally in winter, a team of Tajik
scientists reside at the lake with the responsibility of informing the
authorities in the event of a flood via a radio link. In addition, the
team also performs visual monitoring of the unstable slope of the right
bank of the lake.
The major deficiencies with the current monitoring and warning system are
that: (i) visual monitoring can not provide reliable early warning system;
(ii) the radio link connection is unable to alert the village in time to
allow for evacuation in the event of a flood; (iii) the automatic system
for the detection of water levels in the rivers is too far from the
downstream outflow; and (iv) the old satellite connection system is not
free from complications -- current connection is not continuous. In the
even of a major flood, the existing system would fail to alert the
population in time. In addition, the lack of a proper monitoring system
prevents the study of the behavior of the lake, and therefore limits the
possibility of defining a long-term disaster mitigation strategy or to
build prevention priorities at present.
Disaster preparedness at the community level. Organized disaster
preparedness at the community level is a recent innovation in Tajikistan.
In past decades in the Former Soviet Union countries, disaster
preparedness involved classified studies. Disaster management authorities
would open sealed orders if the disaster occurred. At the end of the
1990s, NGOs in Tajikistan started to develop methods for organizing and
assisting community-level disaster preparedness, but still they are not
extensively used.
Government Efforts to deal with Lake Sarez Problem. The Government of
Tajikistan is committed to reduce the threat that Lake Sarez poses. In
1995, a Resolution was adopted calling for the development of an
integrated program to bring the Lake Sarez into a secure state. Some
efforts have been made since then towards assessing the magnitude of the
problem and identifying mitigation measures. With the support of the donor
community, a risk assessment mission of Lake Sarez was conducted in June
1999. The mission concluded that a complete or even partial collapse of
the Usoi landslide dam and its desvasting impacts are very unlikely. The
assessment found, however, that the threat of collapse of the right bank
of an smaller magnitude than previously believed, remains an unfortunate
reality. Even a medium sized surge wave overtopping the dam could affect
the entire population of 7,500 people living in the Bartang valley and
could possibly extend beyond the town of Rushan and affect the first three
major towns along the Pyandhz river where a total 25,000 people live. The
mission also identified a set of measures to mitigate the hazard, and
confirmed that the most urgent action to address Lake Sarez problem is the
installation of a monitoring system linked to an early warning system to
alert the most vulnerable communities. The mission recommendations, which
formed the basis for the development of the proposed project, were fully
endorsed by the President of Tajikistan.
2. Objectives
The primary objective of the proposed project is to support the Government
-2 -



of Tajikistan in its efforts to build national capacity to plan,
coordinate, promote and implement sustainable mitigation and preparedness
activities for Lake Sarez. Specifically, the project will assist in: (i)
enhancing the current monitoring system, (ii) establishing a community-
based early warning system, (iii) preparing a long-term strategy to deal
with Lake Sarez problem based on the results of the monitoring system, and
(iv) strengthening capacity of the Lake Sarez Agency. This project
represents an initial, fast-track operation of modest size compared with
the magnitude of the problem, and will address the immediate needs of the
communities at risk in Tajikistan, while seeking longer-term solutions to
this complex issue.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This operation is consistent with Bank mission "to reduce poverty and
improve living standards through sustainable growth and investment in
people." An important part of this mission is providing assistance to
prepare for and recover from natural disasters that can result in great
human and economic losses. The Bank can play an important role in
establishing partnerships with the international and scientific community
and in coordinating donors' contributions. The successful implementation
of this project should serve to provide valuable lessons learned for
replication within the Aral Sea Basin and in other CIS countries.
4. Description
The LSEMP will include four components: (i) the design and installation of
a monitoring system (MS) and an early warning system (EWS); (ii) the
strengthening of local communities on emergency preparedness plan and the
provision of safety-related supplies; (iii) the preparation of a study on
long-term solutions; and (iv) the strengthening of the Sarez Agency. The
following paragraphs provide a brief description of each one of the
components including cost estimates:
Component A. Monitoring and Early Warning Systems (Total: US$2.5 million,
SECO: US$2.5 million). The objective of this component is to design and
install a monitoring system and an early warning system, which are
essential to safeguard the life of the communities located in the Murgab
and Bartang valleys and to define a long-term strategy for Lake Sarez.
Comprehensive, well-designed, and functioning monitoring and early warning
systems would allow to monitor the behavior of the Lake Sarez system in
real time, to alert the vulnerable communities and competent authorities
before the occurrence of life threatening conditions, and to develop
knowledge management tools for assessing disaster prevention measures
(long-term objective).
Technical assistance to be funded by the Government of Switzerland
include: consultancies for design and installation of the monitoring and
early warning systems and for their maintenance over a period of three
years after installation; training for Tajik technicians, scientists and
local communities in the operation and maintenance of the systems; and
equipment needed for the monitoring system at the lake, and the early
warning system in the villages of the Murgab and Bartang valleys (about
7,500 people). The Government of Switzerland will also provide financial
support to the Government of Tajikistan to retain a panel of experts to
provide an independent and high level technical evaluation of the plan of
actions to mitigate the risk of the Usoi Dam and of Lake Sarez during the
-3 -



implementation of the project.
Component B. Social Training and Safety-Related Supplies (Total: US$0.8
million, AKF: US$0.5 million, USAID: US$0.2 million, Other:US$0.l
million). The objectives of this component are to make the early warning
system community-based and to help communities to prepare for a potential
outburst flood from Sarez as well as for smaller-scale natural disasters
that occur frequently in the project area. These objectives will be
achieved by conducting a human geographic/demographic investigation,
including information of the population living along the upper Panj River
(about 540 km from Sarez to Moskovakiy) on the Tajik side (about 25,000
people) and, where possible, on the Afghan side of the river. Activities
will include: raising awareness of vulnerable communities; conducting
training at regional and village levels on community participation,
emergency preparedness, evacuation and survival, and maintenance and
operation of the early warning systems; building capacity of NGOs and
government agencies to rescue survivors; establishing local responsibility
and accountability for the early warning system; and organizing inter-
village relations. Communities in remote mountain valleys will establish
areas called "safe havens" -- where evacuees could survive until they are
rescued. Detailed design of the "safe havens" is under preparation, but
it is anticipated that they will contain radios, durable emergency shelter
materials, food staples, and chemicals to make water potable. The Aga Khan
Foundation and the United States Agency for International Development will
finance consultancy services, communication and rescue equipment,
vehicles, extension equipment, and will also facilitate the provision of
basic safety-related supplies to the most vulnerable populations located
in the Murgab and Bartang valleys in order to upgrade the "safe heavens."
Component C. Study of Long-Term Solutions (Total: US$0.4 million, SECO:
US$0.4 million). Prevention of a disaster from happening requires
implementation of structural measures. Possible measures include reduction
of water level, structural modifications of the dam to raise its lowest
freeboard, and/or strengthening the landslide dam. Such engineering
projects will be extremely costly but are the only real way of reducing
the threat that Lake Sarez poses. Therefore a pre-feasibility study is
necessary that would critically review and integrate the past studies to
come out with a ranking of the options to make Sarez an environmentally
sustainable lake. The Government of Switzerland will finance consultancy
services to review past studies and design concepts on Lake Sarez, carry
out complementary desk studies (e.g., assessment of different access
routes to the lake, digital terrain modeling, inundation studies, wave
generation and propagation in the lake, mechanisms of dam over-topping,
sediment accumulation rate, seepage through the lake, etc.), screen
alternative options for disaster prevention, and formulate recommendations
on long-term solutions.
Component D. Institutional Strengthening of Sarez Agency (Total: US$0.60
million, IDA US$0.46 million, GoT US$0.14 million). The newly created
Sarez Agency will be responsible for managing and coordinating the
activities under the proposed project, and will carry out the operation
and maintenance of the monitoring and early-warning systems to be set up
under the proposed project. This component will finance project
management, training and equipment to strengthen the capabilities of the
Sarez Agency, as well as the incremental operating and maintenance costs
- 4 -



associated with the monitoring and early warning systems on a sliding
scale starting from 90 percent in the first year, 60 percent in the second
year, and 25 percent in the third year.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.14
IDA                      0.46
OFF. OF FOREIGN ECON.
AFFAIRS & SWISS AGENCY
OF DEV. & CO             2.90
OTHERS                   0.80
Total Project Cost       4.30
6. Implementation
Implementation period. The bulk of the project activities will be
completed within two years. However, the project will also provide support
during the first three years of operation of the monitoring and early
warning systems in order to develop a firm foundation in technical
capacity for the sustainable implementation of the systems.
Executive agency. The Sarez Agency within the Ministry for Emergency
Situations has full authority to manage and administrate any program
related to Lake Sarez, including this project. The Sarez Agency was
established on October 15,1999, under Government Resolution #419. The
scope of activities assigned to the Sarez Agency extends beyond the scope
of the proposed project. For example, the Sarez Agency has responsibility
for scientific research and construction of works, management of tourist
traffic to Lake Sarez, supervision of the construction of a road to Lake
Sarez. The Sarez Agency has a large number of staff, about 25 between high
level and support level staff. However, it needs to be strengthened to
fulfill its obligations.
Project implementation and coordination: A PIU to be established within
the Sarez Agency will be responsible for technical coordination and daily
monitoring of all project activities. The PIU will coordinate with other
donors, such as the Government of the Netherlands, the Aga Khan
Foundation, and the United States Agency for International Development, in
the implementation of components which will be supported through parallel
and joint co-financing. A Project Implementation Plan is under
preparation, and will describe the proposed implementation arrangements in
more detail.
7. Sustainability
The Government of Tajikistan is committed up to the level of the President
to the proposed project, assuring strong support of this effort. The
project sustainability will be enhanced by supporting operation and
maintenance costs of the monitoring and early warning systems in a
declining basis during the first three; and by straightening capacity of
the implementing agency, Sarez Agency, and the communities at risk.. The
long-term sustainability of the project will be determined by: (i) the
adequate and timely budget allocation to cover operation and maintenance
costs of the monitoring and early warning systems; and (ii) the
- 5 -



communities' willingness and commitment to participate in the
implementation of disaster preparedness plans.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons from these and other Bank projects suggest that:
(i) Non-structural measures can be implemented more rapidly and at a much
lower cost than the structural ones. In the light of disaster prevention,
the former should not be regarded as a substitute for the latter. A sound
safety program should balance structural and non-structural measures. Non-
structural measures can play an important role in mitigating the impact of
a disaster. They also play a fundamental role in assuring sustainability
of any rehabilitation work.
(ii) In order to prevent a disaster from happening, structural measures
are required. Therefore a study is necessary that would critically review
and integrate the past studies to come out with a ranking of the options
to make Sarez an environmentally sustainable lake.
(iii) No engineering solution for mitigating the risk in the short term is
going to work if awareness and preparedness of the people at risk is not
adequately promoted. This will be addressed by the social component, which
will play a central role in the project.
(iv) In planning an emergency response to a potential flood, it is
critical that those villages that may survive, either in whole or in part,
be identified and incorporated in the planning as intermediate "safe
havens" to which flood survivors may go to await outside assistance.
(v) The implementing agency must be strengthened to enable it to respond
to a disaster of the scale of the potential Lake Sarez flood. Such a
capacity building effort will have to be parallel to that being developed
at local community level, under the social component, and fully integrated
with it.
(vi) In view of the complexity of the Lake Sarez problem, it is considered
necessary that the Government of Tajikistan appoints a Panel of Experts
(POE) to review, steer and advise on the implementation of the project.
The POE should be retained by the GOT to act as an high level advisory
group on future interventions that the Republic of Tajikistan, with the
support of the international community, will pursue in relation to the
Lake Sarez problem.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Overall, the project is environmentally beneficial
or neutral. The Lake Sarez itself is a potential environmental
catastrophe. The project aims at mitigating the risk of a potential
environmental catastrophe. As such, it is negatively correlated with the
environmental impact concept. The project only includes non-structural
measures. Therefore, no physical impacts are expected during project
implementation.
Since Lake Sarez is completely within the territory of Tajikistan, the OP
7.50 on International Waterways does not apply in this project. The
Government of Tajikistan is continuously informing the neighboring
countries (i.e., Uzbekistan, Afganistan and Turkmenistan) about the
consequences of a potential outburst or uncontrolled water releases from
Lake Sarez. This has been done at all levels, including international
workshops and conferences.
-6-



11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Alessandro Palmieri
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-0357
Fax:   (202) 522-3307
Email: Apalmieri@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 25, 2000.
- 7 -



