Report No. PID7736
Project Name                     Tajikistan-Lake Sarez Risk Mitigation...
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           ESSD/ Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       TJPE65794
Borrower                         Government of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency              To be defined
Date PID Prepared                May 20, 1999
Projected Appraisal              to be defined
Projected Board Date             to be defined
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
In 1911 an earthquake-triggered landslide blocked the course of river Murgab
at the Usoi site in the Eastern Pamir range of Tajikistan. The 650 m high,
natural dam progressively impounded a lake with a volume of about 17 billion
m3 (half the volume of Lake Geneva) at an altitude of 3,300 m. There are
increasing and founded concerns about the stability of the landslide dam which
is holding the lake. The consequences of a lake outburst flood would have
catastrophic consequences in Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and
Turkmenistan.
The Bank's main country assistance goal as indicated in the CAS is to provide
direct support to the most vulnerable groups in the Tajikistan' society. Such
groups are identified in the CAS as: located in isolated mountainous areas and
lacking adequate shelter. The project is targeted to such groups. The social
component will also bring collateral benefits to these isolated parts of the
civil society of Tajikistan. The territory of Tajikistan is very prone to
natural hazards. Lake Sarez probably constitutes the most dangerous of such
hazards. The GOT is highly committed in preventing a disaster associated with
the lake. Any step in mitigating the risk posed by the lake is going to impact
not only Tajikistan, but a large part of the Central Asia Region. The problem
has therefore a regional relevance.
2.      Objectives
The project will:        (1) design and install a community-based monitoring
and early warning system; and, (2) collate existing studies, formulate a risk
assessment, rank potential disaster prevention options and formulate
recommendations.
This project represent an initial, fast-track operation of modest size
compared with the magnitude of the problem. The project will limit itself to
addressing the most immediate needs while seeking longer-term solutions to
this complex issue. A part from such studies, disaster prevention is not
within the scope of the present project.
3.      Description



The proposed risk mitigation project is based on non-structural measures along
the following 3 components:
Component                        Description
Monitoring /                     Design, procure, install and test suitable monitoring
Early Warning                    (lake levels, leakage rates, landslide movements,
System (EWS)                     crest settlement, etc.) and early warning systems.
Training of the organization responsible for the O&M
of the system. Provide funds for O&M of the system
over a period of 3 years.
Community based                  Provide basic, safety-related supply/ assistance/
EWS                              training on EWS to the most vulnerable populations.
Strengthen "naturally-sheltered areas" which can
provide assistance to the rest of the population
under emergency situations. Train communities in the
maintenance of the system.
Studies on long-                 Review existing studies, screen alternatives and
term solutions                   develop a pre-feasibility study for the regulation of
the lake levels for safety and productive
(hydropower, water supply, etc.) purposes.
4.      Financing
The cost of the project is expected to be US$ 4 million to be refined after
pre-appraisal mission.
Donors funding is being sought. Details to be determined
Sources of funds to be defined. Donors conference scheduled in the second half
of 1999 in conjunction with the Secretariat for the International Decade for
Natural Disaster Reduction (UN-IDNDR).
5.      Implementation
Pre-appraisal mission: June 1999
Appraisal mission: to be defined
Board presentation: to be defined
Project duration: 2 years
6.      Sustainability
Community participation (social component)
Studies for long term solutions
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Non-structural measures can be implemented more rapidly and at a much lower
cost than the structural ones. In the light of disaster prevention, the former
should not be regarded as a substitute for the latter. A sound safety program
should balance structural and non-structural measures. Non-structural measures
can play an important role in mitigating the consequences of a disaster. They
also play a fundamental role in assuring sustainability of any rehabilitation
work.
In order to prevent a disaster from happening, structural measures are
required. Therefore a pre-feasibility study is necessary that would critically
-2 -



review and integrate the past studies to come out with a ranking of the
options to make Lake Sarez environmentally sustainable (third component of the
project).
The social component must play a central role in the project. No engineering
solution for mitigating the risk in the short term is going to work if
awareness and preparedness of the people at risk is not adequately promoted.
In planning an emergency response to a potential flood, it is critical that
those villages that may survive, either in whole or in part, be identified and
incorporated in the planning as intermediate "safe havens" to which flood
survivors may go to await outside assistance.
The implementing agency (not yet identified) must be strengthened to enable it
to respond to a disaster of the scale of the potential Lake Sarez flood. Such
a capacity building effort will have to be parallel to that being developed at
local community level, under the social component, and fully integrated with
it.
In view of the complexity of the lake Sarez problem, it is considered
necessary that the GOT appoints a Panel of Experts (POE) to review, steer and
advise on the implementation of the project. The POE should be retained by the
GOT to act as an high level advisory group on future interventions that the
Republic of Tajikistan, with the support of the international community, will
pursue in relation to the Lake Sarez problem.
8.      Poverty Category
Very nearly all of the target population have very low incomes. Most in
Afghanistan are subsistence farmers. In Tajikistan people in the vulnerable
communities are mainly farmers with below-subsistence productivity levels and
workers who are underemployed. Most of those who are employed (e.g. school
teachers, mechanics, health workers) are seldom paid. The especially
vulnerable people among this poor population, such as children and the
elderly, are the ones for whom it is most important to cache survival
equipment and supplies, as they will be least likely to survive on barren
mountainsides.
9.      Environmental Aspects
Lake Sarez itself is a potential environmental catastrophe
The project aims at mitigating the risk of a potential environmental
catastrophe; as such, it is negatively correlated with the environmental
impact concept.
Only non-structural measures are envisaged, thus no physical impact is
expected during implementation.
10.     Program Objective Categories
Environmentally Sustainable Development/ Natural Resource Management
11.     Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 3 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 29, 1999.
- 4 -



