Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20427-TJ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 0.40 MILLION (US$0.47 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
FOR
LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
May 18, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Tajikistan Rubles (TR)
1 TR = US$ 0.000696
US$ 1 = TR 1,436
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A/T       Acquisition and transmission          m         Meter
AKDN    Aga Khan Development Network            MESCD   Ministry of Emergency Situations and
a.s.l.    Above Sea Level                                 Civil Defense
BCM       Billion cubic meters                  MS        Monitoring System
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy           NCB       National Competitive Bidding
CIS       Commonwealth of Independent States    NGO       Non-Govenmmental Organization
CQ        Consultant Qualification              NPV       Net Present Value
CU        Central Unit                          NS        National Shopping
DALYs   Disability-adjusted life year           OD        Operational Directive
EC-IFAS  Executive Committee-Intemational Fund    PAD     Project Appraisal Document
for the Aral Sea                      PIP       Project Implementation Plan
ECHO    European Community Humanitarian         PMR       Project Management Report
Office                                POE       Panel of Experts
ERP-PIU  Education Reform Project - Project     RFP       Request for Proposal
Irnplementation Unit                  RU        Remote Unit
ERR       Econornic Rate of Return              SA        Sarez Agency
EWS       Early Warning System                  SECO      Swiss State Secretariat for Economic
FOCUS   Focus Humanitarian Assistance                    Affairs
FRR       Financial Rate of Return              SOE       Statement of Expenditures
FSU       Former Soviet Union                   TA        Technical Assistance
GEF       Global Environmental Facility         UD        Usoi Department
GIS       Geographic Information System         UN/       United Nations/International Decade of
GoT       Government of Tajikistan               IDNDR  Natural Disaster Reduction
IDA       International Development Association  US       United States
IS       International Shopping                 USAID    United States Agency for International
km        Kilometer                                       Development
LCS       Least Cost Selection                  WAEMP  Water and Environmental Management
LSRMP   Lake Sarez Risk Mitigation Project                Project
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager/Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Alessandro Palmieri



TAJIKISTAN
LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
}. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        7
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         10
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            11
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Environment                                                                         15
6. Social                                                                              16
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      18
2. Critical risks                                                                      19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      20



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           20
2. Other                                                                              20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          22
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         32
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             33
Annex 5: Financial Sunimary                                                              37
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Anrangements                                       38
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     45
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   46
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  47
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            49
MAP(S)
IBRD 30783



TAJIKISTAN
LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Date: May 16, 2000                             Team Leader: Alessandro Palmieri
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera       Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P067610                            Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL) Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[1 Loan          1 Credit       FI Grant         El Guarantee     [:Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): $0.47
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                 Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                      Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                  Local       Foreign       Total
GOVERNMENT OF TAJIKISTAN                                     0.17         0.00         0.17
IDA                                                          0.28         0.19         0.47
GOVERNMENT OF SWITZERLAND                                    0.00         2.90         2.90
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES                              0.00         0.25         0.25
AGA KHAN DEVELOPMENT NETWORK                                 0.30         0.20         0.50
Total:                                                       0.75         3.54         4.29
Borrower: THE GOVERNMENT OF TAJIKISTAN
Responsible agency: SAREZ AGENCY
MINISTRY OF EMERGENCY SITUATIONS AND CIVIL DEFENSE
Address: Av. I M. Tursun Zade, 3
Contact Person: Mr. Anvarjon Abdulloev, Director Sarez Agency
Tel: (7-3772) 23-18-78               Fax: (7-372) 21-22-44              Email: sarez@tajik.net
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2001       2002       2003        2004       2005
Annual   0.17        0.14        0.07       0.05       0.04 
Cumulative   0.17        0.31       0.38        0.43      0.47
Project implementation period: 5 years (2 years investments and 3 years operation and maintenance)
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000     Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD Form: Rev March, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The primary objective of the proposed Lake Sarez Risk Mitigation Project (LSRMP) is to help alert and
prepare vulnerable people in case of a disaster associated with an outburst flood from Lake Sarez and other
frequent natural hazards such as mudslides, rockfalls, avalanches, and seasonal floods. The project will
build national capacity to plan, coordinate, promote and implement sustainable mitigation and preparedness
activities for Lake Sarez. Specifically, the project will assist in: (i) enhancing the current monitoring system
of Lake Sarez and establishing a community-based early warning system; (ii) enhancing prevention,
mitigation and preparedness capabilities of communities at risk; (iii) preparing a long-term strategy to deal
with the risks and resources associated with Lake Sarez; and (iv) strengthening national capacity. This
project represents an initial, fast-track operation of modest size compared with the magnitude of the
problem, and will address the immediate needs of the communities at risk in Tajikistan, while seeking
longer-term solutions to this complex issue.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the project objective will be measured by the following key indicators:
*   Proportion of vulnerable communities in the Bartang and Murgab Valleys with disaster management
plans as well as responsibilities and procedures agreed upon by community leaders and villagers,
responsible government authorities and interested NGOs.
* Proportion of vulnerable communities able to contact authorities within minutes of disaster onset.
- Number of safe havens and evacuation routes identified and established.
e   Government and NGO personnel have adequate know-how and equipment to predict the occurrence of
a disaster and to respond effectively when the disaster occurs.
*   Increased dialogue and financial support for Lake Sarez disaster mitigation and prevention issues
through new partnerships with the international and scientific community.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18075-TJ                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/25/98
The proposed project is consistent with two CAS goals:
Assisting the most vulnerable. The CAS includes provisions to support the "extremely poor" and
"destitute." Although provisions to mitigate natural hazards disaster affecting the poor are not explicity
mentioned in the CAS, the proposed project will assist the most vulnerable groups in Tajikistan, which are
located in isolated mountainous areas and lacking adequate shelter. The project will directly target the
"People of the Pamir" living in villages situated along the Bartang, Murgab and Kudara river deltas and
terraces. The social component of the project will support commnunity development of these isolated parts
of the civil society of Tajikistan by promoting community participation not only for the mitigation of Lake
Sarez hazard but also for the management of the other frequent natural disasters in the region. In February
2000, the Governrment of Tajikistan requested Bank assistance to address natural disaster management
issues at the national level. The LSRMP represents a first and concrete step in this direction.
- 2 -



Strengthening institutions. The CAS calls for provision of technical assistance, including training, to
enhance the capacity of the public agencies. The proposed project will strengthen disaster mitigation
capacity of the Ministry for Emergency Situations and Civil Defense (MESCD) to deal with Lake Sarez.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Formation of Lake Sarez and the nature of the problem. The territory of Tajikistan is very prone to
natural hazards, and Lake Sarez is among the most dangerous of such hazards. The Lake Sarez was
created in 1911 when a landslide of 2.2 billion cubic meters (BCM), caused by an earthquake in the Parnir
Mountain range, blocked the Murghab River Valley. The landslide buried the Usoi village with its
inhabitants. The landslide dam was given the name of that village. The river soon rose and formed a lake
approximately 60 kilometers (km) in length and containing close to 17 BCM of water, roughly half the size
of Lake Geneva or three times the size of Lake Shasta (Califomia). During its fonnation, the lake
submerged the village of Sarez which gave the name to the water body. The natural dam is located at an
altitude of over 3200 meters (m). With a height of 550 to 650 m, and a length of about 2 km, it is the
highest of any dam, both natural and man-made, in the world. Available reports on Lake Sarez describe the
Usoi obstruction as a colossal dam of questionable stability and suggest that if a strong earthquake occurs
in the vicinity of the lake, the dangerous "right bank", a partially collapsed body of earth and rock with a
mass of roughly 2 BCM, could fall in the lake, generating an enormous wave which would over-top the
natural dam and possibly wash it away. The generated flood could affect up to 5 million people living along
the Bartang, Pyandhz, and Amu Darya rivers, a path traversing Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, and
Turkmenistan.
,Current monitoring system and warning system. In 1988, the Former Soviet Union (FSU) installed an
early warning system based on data transmission via satellite designed to alert Moscow and Dushanbe of
an outburst flow from Lake Sarez. The system was developed to warn the inhabitants of the lower reaches
of the Amu Darya Basin, but not the population in the Bartang Valley living below the lake. The system is
no longer operational. The warning instruments have been abandoned, and the only warning system in place
at the moment is a radio that links the lake and Dushanbe. The current monitoring system of the Lake Sarez
consists of two hydrometric stations located on the Bartang river and one of its tributaries. When the flood
levels rise above pre-determined waming elevations, the system sends an automatic signal to the Usoi
Master Station via cable connection, which is then forwarded via satellite to Dushanbe. During surmer,
and occasionally in winter, a team of Tajikistan scientists reside at the lake with the responsibility of
infonning the authorities in the event of a flood via a radio link. In addition, the team also performs visual
monitoring of the unstable slope of the right bank of the lake. The major deficiencies with the current
monitoring system and warning system are that: (i) visual monitoring cannot provide reliable early waming
system; (ii) the radio link connection is unable to alert the village in time to allow for evacuation in the
event of a flood; (iii) the automatic system for the detection of water levels in the rivers is too far from the
downstream outflow; and (iv) the old satellite connection system is not free from complications and current
connection is not continuous. In the event of a major flood, the existing system would fail to alert the
population in time. In addition, the lack of a proper monitoring system prevents the study of the behavior of
the lake, and therefore limits the possibility of defining a long-term disaster mitigation strategy or to build
prevention priorities at present.
Disaster preparedness at the community level. Organized disaster preparedness at the community level is
a recent innovation in Tajikistan. In past decades in FSU countries, disaster preparedness involved
classified studies. Disaster management authorities would open sealed orders if the disaster occurred. At
the end of the 1990s, NGOs in Tajikistan started to develop methods for organizing and assisting
community-level disaster preparedness, but still they are not extensively used.
- 3 -



Government and donor community efforts to deal with Lake Sarez problem. The Government of
Tajikistan is committed to reduce the threat posed by Lake Sarez. In 1995, a Resolution was adopted
calling for the development of an integrated program to bring Lake Sarez into a secure state. Some efforts
have been made since then towards assessing the magnitude of the problem and identifying mitigation
measures. With the support of the donor community, a risk assessment mission of Lake Sarez was
conducted in June 1999. The mission concluded that a complete or even partial collapse of the Usoi
landslide dam and its devastating impacts are very unlikely. The assessment found, however, that the threat
of collapse of the right bank (although of smaller magnitude than previously believed) remains an
unfortunate reality. Even a medium sized surge wave overtopping the dam could affect the entire
population of 19,000 people living in the Bartang valley and could possibly extend beyond the town of
Rushan and affect the towns and villages along the Pyandhz river where about 130,000 people live. The
mission also identified a set of measures to mitigate the hazard, and confirmed that the most urgent action
to address Lake Sarez problem is the installation of a monitoring system linked to an early warning system
to alert the most vulnerable communities. The mission recommendations, which formed the basis for the
development of the LSRMP project, were fully endorsed by the President of Tajikistan.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed strategy for Bank and donor assistance on Lake Sarez will address the immediate needs while
seeking longer-term solutions to the complex Lake Sarez problem. The LSRMP project will address the
following issues:
Lack of solid knowledge and understanding on the behavior of the Lake Sarez system. The previous
section clearly shows that there is a knowledge gap on the behavior of Lake Sarez. The monitoring system
to be established under this project would allow to study the behavior of the overall Lake Sarez system
(landslide, lake and dam), and to develop the knowledge needed to define a long-term strategy to deal with
the problem. The focus on operation and maintenance needs will strengthen the sustainability of the system.
Weak institutions at the central and regional levels to plan and respond to a disaster of the scale of
the potential of Lake Sarez flood. Although the government has undertaken some steps to organize a
disaster management agency, the institutional capacity is still weak. The recently established Sarez Agency
(within the MESCD), with an overall mandate to coordinate the activities on Lake Sarez, has limited
capacity to carry out its responsibilities The proposed project will address this issue by providing direct
training and equipment, and by having local experts work together with international and regional experts.
The training will involve also other units of the MESCD, such as the Usoi Department (currently
responsible for operation of the existing warning system) and the Territory and Population Protection
Department.
Lack of preparedness of communities at risk. The level of education of the people of the Bartang valley
is remarkably high. Thus, given the alertness, understanding, and willingness to respond, there seems to be
excellent prospects for introduction of an early warning system. People at risk are ready to accept capacity
building for community participation in disaster mitigation and disaster response which has already started,
on a pilot basis, by intemational and local NGOs. The current project seeks to strengthen the capacity of
local communities to undertake preparedness and prevention activities.
-4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The LSRMP will include four components: (i) the design and installation of a monitoring system (MS) and
an early warning system (EWS); (ii) the strengthening of local communities on emergency preparedness
plan and the provision of safety-related supplies; (iii) the preparation of a study on long-term solutions; and
(iv) the strengthening of the Sarez Agency and other units within the Ministry of Emergency Situations and
Civil Defense.
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
.________________________ _ .(.US$M)                 Total     (US$M   | financing
A. Monitoring and Early Warning    Natural             2.50       58.3      0.00        0.0
Systems                        Resources
A. l Design and technical assistance  Management
A.2 Equipment supply, installation,
training and spare parts
A.3 Panel of experts
B. Social Training and Safety-Related   Natural         0.75       17.5      0.00       0.0
Supplies                        Resources
B. 1 Technical assistance          Management
B.2 Safety-related supplies
C. Studies on Long-term Solutions  Other                0.40       9.3       0.00       0.0
Environment
D. Institutional Strengthening     Institutional       0.64        14.9      0.47     100.0
D. I Project management            Development
D.2 Equipment
D.3 O&M costs of monitoring and
early warning systems
Total Project Costs               l   4.29       100.0       0.47     100.0
Total Financing Required                     4.29      100.0      0.47      100.0
The following paragraphs provide a brief description of each component including cost estimates:
Component A. Monitoring and Early Warning Systems (Total: US$2.5 million, SECO: US$2.5
million). The objective of this component is to design and install a monitoring system and an early waming
system, which are essential to safeguard the life of the communities located in the Murgab and Bartang
valleys and to define a long-term strategy for Lake Sarez. Comprehensive, well-designed, and functioning
monitoring and early warning systems would allow to monitor the behavior of the Lake Sarez system in
real time, to alert the vulnerable communities and competent authorities before the occurrence of life
threatening conditions, and to develop knowledge management tools for assessing disaster prevention
measures (long-term objective).
Technical assistance to be funded by the Government of Switzerland include: consultant services for the
design and installation of the monitoring and early warning systems and for operational assistance over a
period of three years after installation; training for Tajikistan technicians, scientists and local communities
- 5 -



in the operation and maintenance of the systems; and equipment needed for the monitoring system at the
lake, and the early warning system in the villages of the Murgab and Bartang valleys, covering about
19,000 inhabitants. For these villages the warning system will be automatic, based on satellite or radio
links. The Government of Switzerland will also provide financial support to the Government of Tajikistan
to retain a panel of experts to provide an independent and high level technical evaluation of the plan of
actions to mitigate the risk of the Usoi Dam and of Lake Sarez during the implementation of the project.
Component B. Social Training and Safety-Related Supplies (Total: US$0.75 million, AKDN: US$0.50
million, USAID: US$0.25 million). The objectives of this component are to make the early warning
system community-based and to help communities to prepare for a potential outburst flood from Sarez as
well as for smaller-scale natural disasters that occur frequently in the project area. These objectives will be
achieved by conducting a human geographic/demographic investigation, including information of the
population (about 130,000 people) living along the upper Panj River (about 540 km from Sarez to
Moskovakiy). Activities will include: raising awareness of vulnerable communities; conducting training at
regional and village levels on community participation, emergency preparedness, evacuation and survival,
and maintenance and operation of the early warning systems; building capacity of NGOs and government
agencies to rescue survivors; establishing local responsibility and accountability for the early warning
system; and organizing inter-village relations; supplying means of communications to strategic villages.
Communities in remote mountain valleys will establish areas called "safe havens" -- where evacuees could
survive until they are rescued. Detailed design of the "safe havens" is under preparation, but it is
anticipated that they will contain radios, durable emergency shelter materials, and chemicals to make water
potable. The Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) and the United States Agency for Intemational
Development (USAID) will finance consultancy services, communication and rescue equipment, vehicles,
extension equipment, and will also facilitate the provision of basic safety-related supplies to upgrade the
"safe havens."
Component C. Study of Long-term Solutions (Total: US$0.4 million, SECO: US$0.4 million).
Implementation of structural measures such as the reduction of the water level, structural modifications of
the Usoi dam to raise its lowest freeboard, and/or strengthening the landslide dam are needed in order to
prevent occurrence of a major disaster. Such engineering solutions may be extremely costly but are the only
real way of reducing the threat that Lake Sarez poses. The project will fund the preparation of a
pre-feasibility study to critically review and integrate the past studies, and to rank available options that
would make Lake Sarez an environmentally sustainable lake for current and future generations. The
Government of Switzerland will finance consultancy services to review past studies and design concepts on
Lake Sarez, carry out complementary desk studies (e.g., assessment of different access routes to the lake,
digital terrain modeling, inundation studies, wave generation and propagation, mechanisms of dam
over-topping, sediment accumulation rate, seepage through the lake, etc.), screen altemative options for
disaster prevention, and formulate recommendations on long-term solutions. The studies will also outline
possible scenarios for developing the natural resource represented by Lake Sarez.
Component D. Institutional Strengthening (Total: US$0.64 million, IDA US$0.47 million, GoT
US$0.17 million). The newly created Sarez Agency will be responsible for managing and coordinating the
activities under the proposed project. Operation and maintenance of the monitoring and early-warning
systems to be set up under the proposed project, will be the responsibilities of the MESCD. The unit within
the MESCD that will be responsible for such tasks will be defined in the course of the project, based on the
results of the training activities. This component will finance consultancy services (for project audit,
fmancial/procurement support, operation and maintenance of monitoring and early warning systems),
equipment, and operating costs to strengthen the capabilities of the Sarez Agency, the Usoi Department,
-6 -



and the Territory and Population Protection Department. The project will also finance the incremental
operating costs related to project management until June 30, 2002 (i.e., the incremental expenses incurred
by the Sarez Agency on account of implementation of the LSRMP, including salaries of incremental
staff/specialists to the Sarez Agency, workshops/seminar logistics expenses, fuel, vehicle insurance and
inspection, office and vehicle maintenance and repair, transportation expenses to the lake, access path
expenses, office consumable) and operating and maintenance costs of the monitoring and early warning
systems (i.e., the incremental expenses incurred after July 01, 2002, by the new unit in charge of the
operation and maintenance of the monitoring and early warning systems, including staff salary,
transportation expenses to the lake, satellite connection fee, satellite check connection fee, office
consumable, fuel, vehicle insurance and inspection, office and vehicle maintenance and repair). The latter
will be financed on a sliding scale starting from 75 percent in the first year, 50 percent in the second year,
and 25 percent in the third year of the operation of the systems.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project will assist the Government of Tajikistan in the development and implementation of sustainable
mitigation and preparedness activities for Lake Sarez. The project will achieve its objective by establishing
an efficient monitoring system and a community-based early-warning system, strengthening institutional
capabilities at the central, regional and local levels to properly operate and maintain the systems, and
enhancing community-level's response capacity to natural disasters.
3. Benefits and target population:
About 130,000 people who live in the communities located in the Murgab, Bartang and Upper Panj River
valleys that are considered highly vulnerable to direct destruction by the potential outburst flood from Sarez
are the target population. The project area falls in the Gomo Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast, which is
known to be the poorest region in Tajikistan. The significant benefit of this project will be improved ability
of poor people to take mitigation measures for reducing casualties and hasten recovery from the potential
outburst flood and from the less catastrophic, but higher probability, natural disasters to which the target
population is vulnerable (earthquakes, landslides, floods, destructive rain, severe winters, epidemics).
Another benefit of the project is the development of significant institutional capacity within the MESCD
and local NGOs. Information generated through this project and the lessons learned from its
implementation will be valuable to develop a long-term strategy for Lake Sarez, which will eventually
benefit about 5 million inhabitants at risk located in Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. The bulk of the project activities will be completed within the first two years.
However, the project will also provide support during the following three years of operation of the
monitoring and early warning systems in order to develop a finn foundation in technical capacity for the
sustainable implementation of the systems.
Executive agency. The MESCD will be responsible for project implementation. The Minister (or
designated Deputy Minister) will provide Government oversight. The Sarez Agency (SA) within the
MESCD has full authority to manage and administer any program related to Lake Sarez, including this
project. The Sarez Agency was established on October 15,1999, under Government Resolution #419.
Project implementation and coordination: The SA will be responsible for technical coordination and
daily administration of the project, and will provide logistical support for implementation. The
responsibility for overseeing the procurement and financial management of the LSRMP will be with the
- 7 -



Project Implementation Unit of the Education Reform Project (ERP-PIU), funded by another IDA Credit
(Cr.3214-TJ), at least during the first six months of the project or until adequate capacity has been created
within the SA for these tasks. The ERP-PIU has experience and expertise in the areas of procurement and
financial management, and has in place an acceptable financial management system.
The SA will coordinate with the Govemment of Switzerland and the Aga Khan Development Network, in
the implementation of components that will be supported through parallel financing. Quarterly meetings
among the donors will be convened in the World Bank Country Office to receive briefings from the SA on
the progress of the project. A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared satisfactory. The PIP
describes the proposed implementation arrangements in more detail.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Undertake longer preparation including site investigations. The design of a monitoring system should
ideally be based on a comprehensive site investigation campaign, including boreholes, geophysical surveys,
in-situ permeability and shear strength tests, laboratory tests, among others. Under normal conditions,
comprehensive site investigation campaigns tend to reduce uncertainties to acceptable engineering limits.
Because of the long lead time to carry out a meaningful site investigation campaign for a problem of the
magnitude of Lake Sarez, this altemative was rejected. However, the monitoring system has been conceived
in such a way that it would provide information of the same nature as an investigation campaign would
have produced. A relatively large scope of the monitoring system was judged more advantageous than
embarking in a long and uncertain site investigation process. This option will also have the advantage of
showing real results on the ground, instead of additional studies.
Structural versus non-structural measures. A problem like Lake Sarez poses formidable difficulties from
a technical and a planning points of view. The amount of financial resources which would be required to
address the issue in purely structural terms would be large and the implementation time long. At the other
end, the problem is obviously of an emergency nature. Intemational experience with hazard management
programs in other countries has shown that this disconnect is constantly present. In the case of Lake Sarez,
the disconnect is magnified by the scale of the problem. The Usoi dam is more than twice higher than the
highest man-made dam in the world. Therefore, matching emergency with the relatively long lead times
required for rehabilitation works represents a key issue. Intemational experience has shown that this
conflict can be efficiently mitigated by the optimization of an implementation program based on a mix of
both structural and non-structural measures. In the case of Lake Sarez, no structural measure can be
implemented in reasonably short time, and therefore a project involving structural measures was rejected.
Consequently the project's components are all non-structural measures. At the same time, the studies on
long-term solutions (Component C) would allow to coordinate actions for preventing the disaster to occur.
Addressing Lake Sarez through ongoing operations versus a self-standing operation. An attempt was
made to expand Component C on the Safety of Dams Component of the ongoing GEF Aral Sea Basin
Water and Environmental Management Project to include the components of the LSRMP. This attempt
failed because these components do not respond to GEF guidelines. The LSRMP was therefore conceived
as a separate operation. Close coordination between the two projects is necessary.
-8 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Project                   (PSR) Ratings
_________________________________  ._________________________  (Bank-financed     projects   only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (00)
Monitoring and early warning system   Nepal Power Sector                 S
Improvement Efficiency Project
(Cr.2347)
(completed)
Monitoring and early warning system   GEF Water and Environmental        S              S
Management Project - Aral Sea
Basin Program (TF020417)
(ongoing)
Dam safety                          Dam Safety Project - India           S              S
(Cr.2241/Ln.3325)
(ongoing)
Dam safety                           Irrigation Dam Safety Project-      S              S
Armenia (Cr.3260) (ongoing)
Other development agencies
Pilot disaster preparedness training for  ECHO (European Community
vulnerable communities of the Bartang  Humanitarian Office); Aga
Valley                               Khan Development Network
(UK) and Focus Humanitarian
Assistance (Dushanbe).
Completed January 2000
Community-based early warning system IDNDR - Early Warning Flood
System - Costa Rica
(completed)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons from these and other projects suggest that:
(i) Non-structural measures can be implemented more rapidly and at a lower cost than the structural ones.
In the light of disaster prevention, the former should not be regarded as a substitute for the latter. A sound
safety program should balance structural and non-structural measures. Non-structural measures can play
an important role in mitigating the impact of a disaster. They also play a fundamental role in assuring
sustainability of any rehabilitation work.
-9-



(ii) In order to prevent a disaster from happening, structural measures are required. Therefore a study is
necessary that would critically review and integrate the past studies to come out with a ranking of the
options to make Sarez an environmentally sustainable lake.
(iii) No engineering solution for mitigating the risk in the short term is going to work if awareness and
preparedness of the people at risk is not adequately promoted. This will be addressed by the social
component, which will play a central role in the project.
(iv) In planning an emergency response to a potential flood, it is critical that those villages that may
survive, either in whole or in part, be identified and incorporated in the planning as intermediate "safe
havens" to which flood survivors may go to await outside assistance.
(v) The implementing agency must be strengthened to enable it to respond to a disaster of the scale of the
potential Lake Sarez flood. Such a capacity building effort will have to be parallel to that being developed
at local conmmunity level, under the social component, and fully integrated with it.
(vi) In view of the complexity of the Lake Sarez problem, it is considered necessary that the Government of
Tajikistan appoints a Panel of Experts (POE) to review, steer and advise on the implementation of the
project. The POE should be retained by the GoT to act as a high level advisory group on future
interventions that the Republic of Tajikistan, with the support of the international community, will pursue
in relation to the Lake Sarez problem.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Indications of commitment for dealing with the Lake Sarez problem have been expressed in repeated
requests to the intemational donor community by the Government at the highest levels. The President of
Tajikistan has personally requested support from the Bank. The foundation for the project was established
during the June 1999 multi-agency mission to Lake Sarez, whose recommendations were fully endorsed by
the President of Tajikistan. The Govemment has created the Sarez Agency (SA) within the MESCD to
carry out activities related to Lake Sarez, and has earmarked US$25,000 for LSRMP during calendar year
2000. The counterpart funds required for the implementation of the project were agreed with the
Govemment of Tajikistan during the appraisal mission.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
This operation is consistent with the Bank's mission "to reduce poverty and improve living standards
through sustainable growth and investment in people." An important part of this mission is providing
assistance to prepare for and recover from natural disasters that can result in great human and economic
losses. The Bank can play an important role in establishing partnerships with the international and
scientific community and in coordinating donors' contributions. The LSRMP has emerged from the regional
studies carried out in connection with the Aral Sea Basin Program. The problem of Lake Sarez was first
brought to the attention of the Bank in March 1997 during the preparation of the Dam Safety Component
of the Aral Sea Basin Program. Subsequently, a small sub-component on Lake Sarez was included in the
GEF Water and Environrmental Management Project (WAEMP), which was approved in May 1998. The
present project expands the scope of the WAEMP sub-component to achieve self-standing and sustainable
objectives. Co-ordination between the GEF project and the LSRMP has started during project preparation.
The successful implementation of this project should serve to provide valuable lessons learned for
replication within the Aral Sea Basin and in other CIS countries.
- 10 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The project is expected to generate substantial benefits in terms of reduced vulnerability to natural hazards
(either the high-magnitude, low-frequency event as represented by an outburst flood from Lake Sarez, or
the low-magnitude, high frequency events such as rockfalls and seasonal floodings, which are common in
the project area). This project relates entirely with the protection of human lives and the reduction in the
number of lives lost. It will directly benefit about 130,000 people located in the Bartang and along the
Tajik side of the Panj river (Rushan Region of the Gorno-Badakstan Autonomous Oblast) by improving
their alertness and preparedness to natural disasters. A substantial portion of the project cost will go to
protect the population most at risk, about 19,000 inhabitants living in the Bartang valley just below the
lake, by providing them with an early waming system based on an automatic protocol.
The project will also generate substantial indirect benefits by reducing the uncertainty associated with the
hazard from Lake Sarez and by generating the basic information and producing the technical capabilities
used in the decision-making process for responding to the challenge of Lake Sarez, thus indirectly
benefiting the populations of Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan (about 5,000,000
people) located in the Amu Darya river basin downstream from the lake.
On the basis of the cost-effectiveness analysis, this project is found to be a cost effective means of
protecting the lives of the poor. The analysis used the cost-per (statistical)-life-saved and the cost per
disability-adjusted life year (DALY) saved as measures to assess the cost worthiness of the investment. The
former indicator is used by some government agencies to assess safety measures (not necessarily associated
with dams). The cost-per (statistical)-life-saved for this project was found to be in the order of US$232.
The best comparison for this value would be the cost of an alternative life protection program or the extra
compensation required by workers in Tajikistan to undertake risky jobs. However, this comparison is
limited by the availability of reliable data. In the absence of this informnation, a comparison was carried out
on the basis of international benchmarks.
The U.S. Federal Government practice in financing "Life-Protecting-Programs" considers the justification
of such programs as "Very Strong," when the cost per life saved is less than US$3 million. In this
particular case, the project will invest four orders of magnitude less than the minimnum threshold considered
by the U.S. Federal Government for a "Very Strong" justification of the investment. Just for reference,
values of a (statistical)-life saved based on extra compensation of workers in the United States vary from
US$1.0 million to US$8.0 million.
The cost per DALY saved for this project, based on rough estimates of the potential reduction in deaths
(about 18,570), the probability of the outburst flood from Lake Sarez (estimated at 5% and consistent with
the value given to an event considered "very unlikely"), and the number of lost DALYs represented by the
death of one person (about 23), was found in the order of US$ 194. A country specific comparison is also
limited by the availability of detailed cost-effectiveness studies in the country -- i.e., this could be monitored
when the Primary Health Care Project (Cr.3324-TJ) starts producing such information. The cost per
DALY saved for this project, however, is in line with the range acceptable under the standards established
in the 1993 World Development Report (i.e., less than US$250 per DALY saved).
- 11 -



2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
No detailed financial analysis was undertaken since the LSRMP is a non-revenue generating project. The
objective of the overall project of saving lives through an early warning system, timely evacuation and
appropriate participation of the community may not be achieved if the Government of Tajikistan does not
commit adequate resources for the operation and maintenance of the monitoring and warning systems. The
project will finance operation and maintenance costs for three years on a declining basis.
The project will be co-financed with two grants from the Govermnent of Switzerland, one for US$1.7
million equivalent on a joint co-financing basis and another for US$ 1.2 million equivalent on a parallel
co-financing basis; a grant from the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) of $500,000; and a United
States Government grant of $250,000. The latter two grants will be channeled through Focus Humanitarian
Assistance (FOCUS). All funds for the project have been secured. The Internal Board of Decisions of the
Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) has already accepted to finance the project. The
USAID through its Bureau of Humanitarian Response under the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance has
already made its funds available to FOCUS. The AKDN's funds, which would also be channeled to
FOCUS, have also been confirmed.
Fiscal Impact:
Total government financing during the project implementation period is estimated at $170,000. Of the total
project cost (US$4.29 million), about 5 percent represents recurrent costs for the monitoring and early
warning systems. The annualized operation and maintenance costs have been estimated at around $80,000
or 2% of overall investment cost. These costs will be financed by the project on a declining basis: 75% first
year, 50% second year, and 25% third year. The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be around 0.005
percent of GDP.
3. Technical:
The technical design of the project was conceived during the June 1999 multi-agency risk assessment
mission to Lake Sarez. The key findings of the mission were that: (i) a complete or even partial collapse of
the Usoi dam is very unlikely; (ii) the overall stability of the darn is considered to be high as a result of the
dam's huge volume of mainly blocky material with high internal friction factors, and the flat slopes
upstream and downstream; and (iii) the threat of collapse of the right bank, while smaller than previously
believed, is still real.
The hazard risk assessment carried out during the mission revealed the urgency of establishing an efficient
monitoring system and an early warning system. The mission also concluded that existing knowledge is
adequate to design a suitable early warning system (EWS) without the need of substantial additional
studies. Possible development of unexpected failure mechanisms that would render the EWS partially or
totally inadequate will require further complementary studies.
One of the main challenges of the project is to design and install the monitoring and early waming systems
that are suitable to the remoteness and harsh environment conditions of the project site.
Another challenge of the project is to build local capacity to operate and maintain the systems once
installed. Capacity of local experts will be strengthened during the project. In addition, a technical manual
on the operation and maintenance of the monitoring and early waming systems will be prepared by the
intemational consultants recruited under the project. The manual will be used by the MESCD after
completion of the project.
- 12-



Given the complexity of the Lake Sarez system, a Panel of Experts consisting of highly qualified
independent experts would be engaged to provide an independent high level technical evaluation of the plan
of actions to mitigate the risk of the Usoi Dam and of Lake Sarez during the implementation of the project.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Emergency Situations and Civil Defense (MESCD) through the Sarez Agency (SA) will be
responsible for project implementation. A key contribution of this project will be capacity building at
various departments of the MESCD both in terms of carrying out the project and supporting a long-term
program for Lake Sarez. The SA has full authority to manage and administer any program related to Lake
Sarez, including this project. The scope of activities assigned to the SA extend beyond the scope of the
LSRMP. For example, the SA has responsibility for scientific research and construction of works,
management of tourist traffic to Lake Sarez, supervision of the construction of a road to Lake Sarez.
However, no construction activity is expected in the short- or medium-term. The SA has a large number of
staff, about 20 between high level and support level staff, however they are not prepared for the
implementation of the project. Measures have been taken during project preparation to strengthen the SA
for implementing the LSRMP.
4.2 Project management:
Management responsibilities related to this project will be handled by a core group of staff of the SA. They
will deal with the daily management, monitoring, administration and technical coordination of the project.
This core group of staff will comprise: the Sarez Agency Director (civil servant), a Scientific Advisor
(consultant), a Project Manager (consultant), an Administrative Officer (consultant), and a Data
Management Specialist (consultant). In addition, the SA will be able to contract external local consultants
when required. Such resources will include experts from the Institute of Seismology (Dushanbe),
Tasjikglavgeologia, Hydrometeorological Committee, Barki Tajik Civil Construction Committee, among
others.
The Project Implementation Unit of the Education Reform Project (ERP-PIU) will provide support to the
SA in the areas of financial management and procurement until adequate capacity has been created in the
agency for these tasks. The ERP-PIU has skilled staff who can handle the financial management and
procurement responsibilities and accounting aspects related to the LSRMP. A contract arrangement has
been signed between the SA and the ERP-PIU for this purpose. The SA will employ an Administrator
Officer, who will liaise with the ERP-PIU, and will receive on-the-job training on financial management
and procurement procedures. (A detailed description of this arrangement is described in the PIP).
Two other departments of the MESCD will also participate in the project. The Usoi Department (UD),
which currently operates the existing warning system in the Bartang valley and has received training in
emergency management, will participate as follows: (i) cooperating with the international consultant in the
design of the systems; (ii) assisting in the installation, testing and commissioning of the systems; and (iii)
training. The Territory and Population Protection Department will receive GIS training through the project.
The Project Manager of the SA will be responsible for the coordination among the three units. The
structure of the SA, for the implementation of the LSRMP, is presented below.
During the first two years of project implementation, the GoT will provide an annual budget to the SA to
cover operating expenses such as utilities, salary of support staff, rental of office space, and other
- 13 -



miscellaneous expenses. After the installation of the monitoring and early warning systems, the GoT will
also provide an annual budget to cover the associated operating and maintenance expenses on an increasing
basis: 25 percent first year, 50 percent second year, and 75 percent third year of their operation.
In order to ensure donor coordination, which is considered essential for the successful implementation of
the project, project's co-financiers have agreed to conduct joint supervision missions.
|NMinistry of Emergency Situations and|
SAREZ AGENCY
Usol Department    .__Director                                                       .     Territory and
* Coordination of all activities related to Lake Saz              Department
External Specialists
LSRMP CORE GROUP
* Scientific Ad-isor
Panel of Experts         * Project Manager                                  PIU Education Project
* Administrator OMcer                           (Financial Management and
* Data Management Specialist                      Procurement Support)
Component A                      Component B                         Component C                     Component D
Monitoring and Early Warning     Social Training and Provision of        Study on Long-Term          Institutional Strengthening of
Systems                    Safety-Related Supplies                  Solutions                     Sarez Agency
e Design, procure equipment and    Prepare disaster management       * Review past studies and        * Strengthen capacity of Sarez
install systems.                 plans.                              database on Lake Sarez.          Agency.
* Coordinate with Component B.   - Train communities, Govemment       Carry out additional desk        Training and capacity building.
* Training of Sarez Agency        agencies, NGOs on disaster          studies.                        * Operation and maintenance of
personnel and select villages.  prevention, mitigation and          * Identify disaster prevention    monitoring and early warning
preparedness.                       options.                         systems.
* Identify safe-heavens.            * Seek views of stakeholders.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Tajikistan is a high risk country from the public procurement point of view. Any weaknesses that may exist
in the country's procurement legislation have been mitigated for this project by the use of the ERP-PIU,
which already has experience in Bank procurement procedures. Nevertheless, the prior review thresholds
recommended for this project are those applicable to a high risk country. Procurement arrangements are
described in Annex 6 and the PIP. The Administrator Officer will receive on-the-job training on
procurement procedures. Based on an assessment of the ERP-PIU, the project is not suitable for
PMR-based disbursement.
- 14 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
The overall responsibility for the financial management of the project will rest with the ERP-PIU until
adequate capacity has been created in the SA. A contract arrangement has been drafted between SA and
ERP-PIU for this purpose. SECO and FOCUS have agreed to provide quarterly financial reports in a
format acceptable to the Bank. Detailed arrangements are under preparation. The ERP-PIU has already
been certified to meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
The SA has already recruited an Administrative Officer, who will liaise with the ERP-PIU. An action plan
has been prepared to build up financial management capacity in SA and a full transfer of responsibilities
will be considered by December 31, 2000.
The financial management capacity within Tajikistan has not been the subject of a detailed review by the
Bank. However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist
in the financial management capacity within Tajikistan have been mitigated for this project by the use of
the ERP-PIU for financial management, drawing upon its experience of Bank project implementation, and
of international auditors for the audit of the project. In addition, weaknesses in the Tajikistan banking
sector will be mitigated by the use of a commercial bank deemed eligible by the Bank to hold the project's
Special Account.
The agreed indicative formats for the Project Management Reports (PMRs) were agreed during
negotiations. The agreed initial PMRs will be produced by April 15, 2001, and quarterly thereafter.
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditures (SOE). A move to PMR-based disbursements will be made at the mutual agreement of the
Government and the Bank, and will be considered once the PIU is familiar with the project monitoring
aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable project management information.
A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by June 30, 2002.
External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank, and on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (which have already been drafted) will be performed over the life of the project.
The project's auditor will place reliance on the work of the auditors of FOCUS and SECO in conducting
the audit of the project. The results of the audit of the project will be available within six months of the end
of the fiscal year and the cost of the audit will be financed by the Credit. The appointment of the project's
auditor is a condition of project effectiveness and the appointed auditor will be retained, subject to
satisfactory performance, for the life of the project.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Overall, the project is environmentally beneficial or neutral. The Lake Sarez itself is a potential
environmental catastr6phe. The project aims at mitigating the risk of a potential environmental catastrophe
and, at the same time, exploring options to turn the hazard into a valuable natural resource. As such, it is
negatively correlated with the environmental impact concept. The project only includes non-structural
measures. Therefore, no physical impacts are expected during project implementation.
Since Lake Sarez is completely within the territory of Tajikistan, the OP 7.50 on International Waterways
does not apply in this project. The Government of Tajikistan is continuously informing the neighboring
countries (Uzbekistan, Afghanistan and Turkmenistan) about the consequences of a potential outburst or
- 15 -



uncontrolled water releases from Lake Sarez. This has been done at all levels, including international
workshops and conferences.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to support community development of isolated parts of the civil society of
Tajikistan by promoting community participation not only for the mitigation of Lake Sarez hazard, but also
for the management of other frequent natural disasters in the region. The June 1999 multi-agency risk
assessment mission to Lake Sarez conducted a socio-economic assessment of the population living along
the Bartang valley and part of the Panj River. The attitude of the inhabitants to the threat posed by Lake
Sarez, and their ability and/or willingness to follow warnings from an early warning system were also
assessed by the mission.
These field investigations reveal that the level of education of the people in the Bartang valley is
remarkably high. Thus, given the alertness, understanding, and willingness to respond, there appear to be
excellent prospects for introduction of an early warning system. Another important finding of the
investigations is that the sense of belonging to their "homeland" is very high: the people in general want to
stay in their mountain valleys.
Recent studies carried out by FOCUS reveal that indigenous people make up most of the target population
for the project. The social studies and training activities to be carried out under this project will address
indigenous issues in an integrated way, covering socio-economic, production system, gender, land tenure,
and natural resources management. These assessments and the participatory approach envisaged for the
monitoring and early warning systems will take into account all the elements required to empower the
People of the Pamirs in a manner that is consistent with their social demand and cultural preferences.
Participation of the communities in project activities will be entirely voluntary and those communities that
do not want to participate will not be affected by the project. Ongoing activities to strengthen the capacity
of these local communities carried out by local NGOs reveal that communities are very enthusiastic to take
part in the implementation of the project.
- 16 -



Due to the fact that indigenous people (People of the Pamir) represent most of the project's beneficiaries,
the project as a whole is considered an "Indigenous People Development Plan" for the purpose of OD 4.20.
The non-structural measures supported under this project will not touch the social structure or culture of
the populations. Instead, the LSRMP will heavily rely on the values of the People of the Pamir for its
success. The proposed project does not include any involuntary relocation of populations, or modification
of property rights as a consequence of the installation of the mitigation measures. This was ruled out by the
findings of the June 1999 mission to Lake Sarez.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders identification begun during the pilot activities carried out by FOCUS during 1998-1999. The
primary beneficiaries of the proposed project are the vulnerable communities (about 130,000 inhabitants in
Tajikistan) located in the Murghab and Bartang valleys and along the Tajik side of the Panj valley, together
with the emergency management professionals at the central and local levels, and local NGOs (i.e., Man
and Nature, Fidokor, Kuhiston, National Red Crescent Society) concemed with the Lake Sarez problem.
The above-mentioned pilot activities have allowed to promote the participation of affected and concerned
groups including community organizations, vulnerable conmmunities, local governments, department of the
MESCD, local NGOs and international humanitarian agencies in the proposed project. The series of
workshops at the provincial, district and community levels have allowed to motivate and enable
stakeholders to take ownership of the planning process, and to begin developing local capabilities for
effective rescue and recovery assistance, and for community self-help during and after the potential
disaster. Local NGOs have also expressed their readiness to develop methods for organizing and assisting
community-level disaster preparedness and for implementing community training for natural disasters.
Other stakeholders are the government bodies in charge of disaster prevention, primarily the MESCD at the
central, oblast and local levels, and other Central Asian States (Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, potentially
Afghanistan) who will benefit from the body of information that the monitoring system will collect data on
the safety conditions of the lake and its development.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The LSRMP will place special emphasis on involving collaboration with NGOs and beneficiaries, and
building capacity of local NGOs in natural disaster mitigation, preparedness and prevention. NGOs will
play a key role in project implementation to ensure sustainability and effectiveness of the monitoring and
early warning systems.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The social development essentially focuses on the involvement of beneficiaries in project implementation.
The project, through Component B, provides for extensive involvement of the targeted communities in
project implementation.
- 17 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project is expected to establish a permanent and effective communication-based risk mitigation
program for Lake Sarez. Specific performance indicators include: (i) effective and fimctioning
community-based early waming system; (ii) number of comnmunities, NGOs and professional staff trained
on effective disaster mitigation, preparedness and prevention; (iii) number of communities identified as
"safe havens" well-prepared to play their planned role; and (iv) number of "safe havens" established.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
1 Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)           1 Yes El No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04 GP 4.04)                    OI Yes Z No
O Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    El Yes 1 No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      l Yes Z No
O Cultural Property (OP 11.03                                   LI Yes Z No
1 Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Z Yes El No
l Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             LI Yes Z No
1 Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                                  Yes LI No
El Projects in Intemational Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.50)   LI Yes 1 No
L Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         EL Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Compliance with OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment does not require any follow up. The project will
not touch the social structure or culture of the populations. Therefore, the project will be in compliance
with OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples. Compliance with OP 4.37 on Safety of Dams will be ensured by the
appointment of the Panel of Experts financed under the project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The GoT is committed up to the level of the President to the proposed project, and has assured its strong
support. Project sustainability will be enhanced by: (i) supporting operation and maintenance costs of the
monitoring and early warning systems on a declining basis during the first three years of their operation;
and (ii) by strengthening the capacity of the implementing agency and the communities at risk. The
long-term sustainability of the project will be determined by: (i) the adequate and timely budget allocation
to cover operation and maintenance costs of the monitoring and early warning systems; and (ii) the
communities' willingness and commitment to participate in the implementation of disaster preparedness
plans.
-18 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Development of unexpected modes of         M         Government hires a panel of experts to advise.
failure.                                             Support additional studies within the overall
program, but outside the LSRMP. Extend
monitoring system.
Lack of funds to commission future         M         Bank will play a catalytic role in mobilizing
studies.                                             further donor support.
From Components to Outputs
1. Timely implementation. Delays in        M         Process to procurement consulting services for
equipment installation because of the                design (funded under SECO) begins as soon as
winter period.                                       the project is negotiated.
2. Effective team work. Whether or not      S        Keep a close supervision jointly with
civil servants and consultants in the Sarez          co-financiers. Hold quarterly meetings between
Agency can work together.                            the SA and co-financiers in the Bank's Country
Office to assess and steer the project.
3. Operational problems. Monitoring        M         Risks of instabilities of the lake system
system conceived as fully automatic due              (landslides, incoming flows) are mainly
the to remoteness of site and the need to            associated with snowmelting during the spring
link it to an early warning system. Its              and summer seasons. Therefore, risks are
functionality will depend on proper                  expected to be lower during the winter season.
maintenance, which can be problematic
during winter seasons.
4. Faulty alarm system. False alarms       M         Preparedness programs included under
during the initial period of operation may           components A and B will include informnation on
generate disbelieve on people.                       the likelihood of false alarms
5. Sustainability of results. Lack of       S        Create expertise within the MESCD to operate
national technical capacity to operate and           and maintain the systems. New skills developed
maintain the monitoring system and the               under the project will enhance future income
early warning system. Ability to recruit             earning potential of staff. Commit Government
and retain highly qualified staff during             to previde long-term support for O&M. Future
and after project. Lack of funds for                 grant financing/lending will be tied to
operation and maintenance after the                  sustainable use systems. Empower and train
project.                                             communities to take charge for the operation
and maintenance of early warning system.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 19-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The only apparent controversial aspect at this stage is the possibility of creating tension among staff of the
Sarez Agency because of the difference in salaries between civil servants and consultants. This will be
closely monitored during supervision.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) The Government will have deposited the equivalent of US$15,000 (fifteen thousand US dollars) in the
project account as the Government's counterpart cash contribution for CY2000 and first semester of
CY2001;
(ii) Agreements with SECO and AKDN (project's co-financiers) and FOCUS (implementing agency of
Component B) negotiated and signed; and
(iii) Auditor acceptable to the Bank will be selected and appointed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Audits and Accounts:
Standard auditing covenants will apply.
Management
The Sarez Agency would be maintained and adequately staffed.
Counterpart Funds
The Government of Tajikistan will make provisions in the Annual National Budget for the counterpart
funds required for the implementation of the project.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting:
(i) Standard reporting covenants will apply; and
(ii) Sarez Agency would report to the Bank on a half yearly basis the status of agreed key monitorable
indicators.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z9 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
- 20 -



3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The additional actions also confirm the readiness for implementation of the proposed project: (i) detailed
cost estimates for all components have been agreed during the appraisal mission; (ii) strengthening of the
Sarez Agency has already started with funds available under Component C (Dam and Reservoir
Management) of the GEF Water and Environmental Management Project (WAEMP); (iii) agreements have
been reached on the terms of reference for the Components (A and C), and on the scope of work of
Components B (social); (iv) the Project Manager and Administrator Officer have been selected; (v) an
agreement between the SA and the ERP-PIU has been signed; (vi) the members of the Panel of Experts
have been selected and will be appointed following project approval; and (vii) SECO has already started
the procurement of the consulting services for Components A and C.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
LOtAlessandro Palmieri                eMCleaveryoshi Kodera
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Assisting the most vulnerable. Acknowledgment that     National statistics on     Reducing vulnerability to
mountain communities'      occurrence of natural disasters natural disasters contributes to
Strengthening institutions.    vulnerability to natural  and impacts.             alleviate poverty.
disasters has been reduced and
that Government and NGOs   Formal and informal
personnel responsible for  assessments from the donor
disaster management are    community and
capable to assist communities international/local NGOs.
to respond effectively when
disasters occur
-22 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To help alert and prepare   .o.o.  Project supervision reports.   Improved capacity to deal with
vulnerable people in case of a Monitoringt or and earl owanln                    the Lake Sarez problem will
disaster associated with an  osm thoatwo and ee oem.  Monitoring activities of the   reduce the risks of losses of
outburst flood from Lake   know how to use them.      Sarez Agency.              the most vulnerable and
Sarez and other frequent   Proportion of vulnerable                              poorest populations.
natural hazards such as    communities able to        Surveys of communities at
mudslides, rockfalls,     implement disaster          risk.
avalanches, and seasonal   management plans and to
floods.                    contact authorities within
minutes of disaster onset.
Govemment and NGO
personnel are able to predict
the occurrence of a disaster
and to respond effectively
when the disaster occurs.
Increased dialogue and
financial support for Lake
Sarez disaster mitigation and
prevention issues through
new partnerships with the
international and scientific
community.
-23 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Current monitoring system of Monitoring system and early  Supervision by         Govemment commitment to
Lake Sarez enhanced and a   warning system funded under Bank/cofinanciers staff and   implement participatory
community-based early     the project properly installed  consultants.           approaches for disaster
warning system established,                           Projedand functioning.     mitigation in Lake Sarez, to
waming system established.    Project mid-termm review and  work together with NGOs, to
Govemment personnel trained final evaluation.         provide the necessary funds to
in the operation and                                  cover O&M needs.
maintenance of the
monitoring and early waming
systems.
Early waming system
designed according to agreed
disaster management plans
Prevention, mitigation and    Proportion of vulnerable  Supervision by           Govemment remains
preparedness capabilities of   communities in the Bartang   Bank/cofinanciers staff and   committed to provide effective
communities at risk enhanced. and Murgab Valleys with  consultants.              operation and maintenance of
disaster management plans,   Pee monitoring system and
responsibilities and procedures Project mid-term and final   early waming system.
agreed upon by community                              Local comuit
leaders and villagers, and                            Local commuie toes rema
responsible govemment                                 committed to routine
responsible government                  ~~~~surveillance of early warning
authorities and interested                            system.
NGOs.
Number of communities and
proportion of community
members conducting disaster
drills soon after training.
Twenty communities, 5
NGOs, 10 staff from the
MESCD, 15 local aid and
support groups trained on
effective disaster mitigation,
preparedness and prevention.
Ten communities identified as
"safe havens" well-prepared to
play their planned role.
Ten "safe havens" and
evacuation routes identified
and established.
Information updated and
database established.
-24 -



Report with recommendations Pre-feasibility report issued    Consultant's report.  Continued donor commitment
on alternative disaster                                                        to support the implementation
prevention measures prepared.                                                  of the proposed
recommendations.
Planning and management   Establishment of a unit within Supervision by        Sarez Agency maintains an
capacity of the Sarez Agency  the MESCD that operates and Bank/cofinanciers staff and   appropriate budget
improved                  maintains the monitoring and consultants
early warning systems.
Project mid-term review and
Ten staff of the MESCD    final evaluation.
trained in Operation and
Maintenance of the
monitoring and early warning
systems.
Ten staff of the MESCD
trained in planning and
management of medium- and
long-term mitigation activities
for Lake Sarez.
-25-



Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of Objectves          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Component A. Monitoring    US$2,500,000             Inputs will be monitored and  All significant modes of
System and Early Waming                             evaluated through regular and failure are detectable by the
System                                              disbursement reports.     monitoring system.
Component B. Social Training US$750,000                                       Targeted communities
and Safety-Related Supplies                                                   participate in early waming
system and O&M of the
monitoring system.
Component C. Study on     US$400,000                                          Consensus is reached among
Long-term Solutions                                                           stakeholders on the most
efficient and effective
long-term solutions
Component D. Institutional   US$640,000                                       Counterpart funding is
Strengthening                                                                 sufficient and timely.
Sarez Agency hires and
retains qualified personnel to
effectively O&M of the
system.
Institutional capacity can be
developed within project
timeframe.
-26 -



Annex 2: Project Description
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
The Hazard: The Usoi landslide dam, named after the village of Usoi which was completely buried by the
slide in 191 1, has a total volume estimated at approximately 2 billion cubic meters (BCM), with a
maximum height above the original valley floor of between 500-700 meters (m). A lake quickly formed
behind the Usoi dam, rising at a rate of approximately 75 m per year during the first few years. Lake
Sarez is now over 60 kilometers (km) in length, with a maximum depth in excess of 500 m and a total
volume of approximately 17 BCM. Today, the surface of the lake is more than 3200 m above sea level
(a.s.l.), surrounded by peaks rising to more than 6000 m a.s.l. At present, the lake surface is
approximately 50 m below the lowest point on the crest of the Usoi dam, and the water level is rising at an
average of 20 centimeters per year, based on the most recent measurements.
Usoi is the highest dam, natural or manmade, on earth. In a worst-case scenario, a catastrophic outburst
flood from Lake Sarez would destroy the villages and infrastructure in the Amu Darya basin between the
Lake and the Aral Sea, a distance of over 2000 km, inhabited by more than 5 million people.
The Usoi dam and Lake Sarez have been the subjects of observation and technical studies for several
decades. These studies, conducted primarily by Russian and Tajik scientists, and discontinued at the time
of the breakup of the Soviet Union, were directed primarily toward analyses of the geotechnical and
hydrological aspects of the Usoi dam, Lake Sarez, and the adjacent mountain slopes. A warning system
was developed, designed to alert Moscow and Dushanbe to an outburst flood from the lake. Little attention
was given to the safety of the people living in the river valley downstream from the lake. Few of the results
of these studies were generally available to scientists or govemment officials in the West until the breakup
of the Soviet Union. Even today, most of the information gathered describing the geotechnical environment
of the dam and lake is archived in Moscow and Dushanbe in govenmment institutes and agencies that may
be virtually nonfunctional. This makes the task of developing a proper perspective on the problem difficult
for international disaster management experts.
A catastrophic outburst flood from Lake Sarez would have intemational implications. Depending upon the
distance traveled by such a flood in the Bartang-Panj-Amu Darya river system, and the magnitude of such
a flood, those portions of the countries of Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan located
along the river valley are potentially at risk. In the event of such a flood, large irrigation systems, on which
the economies of several of these countries are based, could be destroyed. This makes the potential for a
flood one of the major concerns uniting the countries of the region, and solutions at any scale should be
approached in this light.
The geographic region in question includes parts of Northem Pakistan and Northeastem Afghanistan. It is
defined by some of the highest mountain ranges on earth - the Pamir, Tien Shen, Karakoram and Hindu
Kush Mountains - and by the problems the mountains cause in terms of the social, economic, and political
isolation of the peoples living in them. The topographic complexity and general inaccessibility of these
large mountain ranges, coupled with the many political and economic problems associated with the
transition from Soviet control, also create problems for the development-assistance community. The
political, social, and economic marginalization of mountain peoples make it difficult to design assistance
programs while working through a central government in a distant lowland. In addition, the complex,
three-dimensional environmental mosaic of large mountain ranges makes the application of generic
solutions difficult, and their success problematical.
- 27 -



The Lake Sarez problem requires an effective strategy of hazard prevention and hazard mitigation. The
proposed project addresses both through its four components: (i) the design and installation of a monitoring
system (MS) and early warning system (EWS); (ii) the strengthening of local communities on emergency
preparedness plan and the provision of safety-related supplies; (iii) the preparation of a study on long-term
solutions; and (iv) the strengthening of the Lake Sarez Agency. The following sketch shows the synergetic
correlation of the hazard prevention and hazard mitigation activities and the extent of the LSRMP The
thick-border boxes show actions pertaining to the LSRMP.
LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION STRATEGY
I   HAZARD PREVENTION                    HAZARD MITIGATION
MOJR N               PREPAREDNESS
STRUCTURAL                        EFFECTIVE EARLY
MEASURES                        WARNING SYSTEM
LONG-TERM MONITORING OF
SLOPE AND DAM STABILITY,
AND OF THE HYDROLOGIC
REGIME
Source: J. Hanish, UN/IDNDR Mission Report, June 1999.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.50 million
Component A. Monitoring an Early Warning Systems. The objective of this component is to design and
install a monitoring system and an early warning system, which are essential to safeguard the life of the
communities located in the Murgab and Bartang valleys and to define a long-term strategy for Lake Sarez.
Comprehensive, well-designed, and functioning monitoring and early warning systems would allow to
monitor the behavior of the Lake Sarez system in real time, to alert the vulnerable communities and
competent authorities before the occurrence of life threatening conditions, and to develop knowledge
management tools for assessing disaster prevention measures (long-term objective). Proposed activities
under this component include:
-28-



A.1 Design, technical assistance and training (USSO.8 million)
To help Tajikistan to deal with Lake Sarez problem, the Government of Switzerland will finance
consultancy services for the preparation of the detailed design of the monitoring system and early warning
system, and for the preparation of tender documents for the procurement, manufacturing, supply,
installation and commissioning of the two systems. Under this sub-component, training and technical
assistance would also be provided to the Sarez Agency during the implementation of the project, and for the
initial 3 years of operation of the control system.
A.2 Equipment supply, installation, training and spare parts (US$1.5 million)
The Government of Switzerland will co-finance the equipment needed for the monitoring system of the lake,
and the early warning system in the villages most at risk of the Bartang and Murgab valleys (about 19,000
people) as well as their installation. The equipment will be procured on the basis of the detail design and
tender documents prepared under the previous sub-component. The supplier of the equipment, would also
be responsible for the minor civil works required for the installation, for carrying out training activities of
the Sarez Agency during project implementation, and for providing specialized assistance in the operation
and maintenance of the systems during the first 3 years of operation, including the provision of spare parts.
Conceptually, the design of the control system should be based on three elements:
* Monitoring System (MS): to provide suitable data (instrumentation readings) to characterize the
phenomena under observation;
* Early Warning System (EWS): capable of alerting the vulnerable communities and the competent
authorities with adequate lead time before the occurrence of life threatening conditions; and
*   MS/EWS Interface (scientific support): key knowledge management tool for the interpretation of the
data provided by the MS and the development of an interpretative model, by means of risk scenarios.
The MS will control the behavior of the overall system (landslide/lake/dam) by tracking those
instrumentation readings that are representative of the phenomena evolution: displacements, hydraulic
conditions, seismic activity, meteorological and environmental factors, etc. The automation of the MS is
considered an obligatory condition in the case of Lake Sarez because: a) the quantities to be acquired are
numerous and the sensors will be placed in inaccessible areas; b) the MS will trigger an alarm system
(EWS) for civil protection purposes.
The MS will include the following measurements: (i) water level of the lake, in order to detect annual
oscillations and to monitor the impact waves caused by rock falls into the lake; (ii) profile of the crest of
the Usoi dam, in order to monitor its settlements, with particular regard to the minimum freeboard area;
(iii) displacements of the right bank landslide, in particular, those of the partially collapsed body (0.9 km3)
and, possibly, of some other parts of the largest, potentially unstable, slope (2 km2); (iv) seismic activity in
the lake Sarez area; and (v) downstream outflow, in order to monitor the relationship between the
through-flow and the levels of the lake; the measurements should include suspended sediments.
Three independent meteorological stations will also be established: two at the level of the lake, and one in
the outflow area. The above mentioned measurements will be carried out at 3 remote units, in the lake
area. This is considered a minimum initial arrangement, that could grow, in the future, based on the
findings of the monitoring campaign and the corresponding interpretation. The future units are beyond the
scope of the LSRMP. The individual sensors of the MS will be connected to the data acquisition and
transmission (A/T) system of the Remote Units (RU) via cable or radio (to be assessed). The RU will be
connected, via satellite or via Meteor Burst technology (to be assessed), to the Central Unit (CU) in
Dushanbe. The CU will manage the data acquisition and recording system. Measurements will be acquired
- 29 -



at a pre-established rate which should be altered at will at any given time. The CU will be connected via
computer to a specialized processing data base which, with the help of mathematical modeling techniques,
will allow for both the updating of the safety management of the territory and the improvement of the EWS.
At the same time, a preliminary EWS, based on a representative set of scenarios of the dangerous
developing conditions, will have to be installed. The EWS units and the related homs located in 15 villages
of the Bartang Valley will be automatically connected to the CU and to the RU by satellite phones. The
warning units will be equipped with oriented antennas, solar panels and batteries. In the occurrence of
dangerous events, two different levels of sound will be emitted by the waming horns: "get ready" and "run
away" to pre-identified safety zones.
A3 Panel of Experts (US$0.2 million)
In view of the complexity of the Lake Sarez problem, it is considered necessary that the Government of
Tajikistan appoints a Panel of Experts (POE) to review, steer and advise on the implementation of the
project. The Government of Switzerland will provide financial support to allow the POE to act as a high
level advisory group to the Government of Tajikistan during the implementation of the project. Five
members for the POE have already been selected by the Government of Tajikistan. All proposed members
are acceptable to IDA. National, regional and international expertise is reflected in the POE. The POE
encompass all disciplines required to handle a problem like Lake Sarez. The POE is expected to visit
Tajikistan 6 or 7 times for a period of 7 - 10 days each visit, during the 5 years of project duration.
Project Component 2 - US$0.75 million
Component B. Social Training and Safety-Related Supplies. The objectives of this component are to
make the early warning system community-based and to help communities to prepare for a potential
outburst flood from Lake Sarez as well as for smaller-scale natural disasters that occur frequently in the
mountains. These objectives will be achieved by conducting a human geographic/demographic
investigation, including information of the population (about 130,000 people) living along the upper Panj
River (about 540 km from Sarez Lake to Moskovakiy). Activities will include: raising awareness of
vulnerable communities; conducting training at regional and village levels on community participation,
emergency preparedness, evacuation and survival, and maintenance and operation of the early warning
systems; building capacity of NGOs and government agencies to rescue survivors; establishing local
responsibility and accountability for the early warning system; and organizing inter-village relations.
Communities in remote mountain valleys will establish areas called "safe havens" -- where evacuees could
survive until they are rescued. Detailed design of the "safe havens" is under preparation, but it is
anticipated that they will contain radios, durable emergency shelter materials, food staples, and chemicals
to make water potable. The Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) will finance consultancy services, communication and rescue
equipment, vehicles, computers and software, and will also facilitate the provision of basic safety-related
supplies to the most vulnerable populations located in the Murgab and Bartang valleys in order to upgrade
the "safe havens."
Project Component 3 - USS 0.40 million
Component C. Study of Long-term Solutions. Prevention of a disaster from happening requires
implementation of structural measures. Possible measures include reduction of water level, structural
modifications of the dam to raise its lowest freeboard, and/or strengthening the landslide dam. Such
engineering projects will be costly but are the only real way of reducing the threat that lake Sarez poses.
Therefore a pre-feasibility study is necessary to critically review and integrate the past studies and to rank
options to make Sarez an environmentally sustainable lake. The Government of Switzerland will finance
consultancy services to review past studies and design concepts on lake Sarez, carry out complementary
desk studies (e.g., assessment of different access routes to the lake, digital terrain-modeling, inundation
- 30 -



studies, wave generation and propagation in the lake, mechanisms of dam overtopping, sediment
accumulation rate, seepage through the lake, etc.), screen altemative options for disaster prevention, and
formulate recommendations on long-tern solutions. This work will be carried out by the same consultant
selected to carry out the design of the monitoring and of the early warning system.
Project Component 4- US$0.64 million
Component D. Institutional Strengthening. The newly created Sarez Agency will be responsible for
managing and coordinating the activities under the proposed project. This component will finance
consultancy and equipment to strengthen the capabilities of the SA and other units within the MESCD, as
well as the incremental operating costs associated with project management. Operating and maintenance
costs of the monitoring and early warning systems will be financed under this component but on a declining
basis starting from 75 percent in the first year, 50 percent in the second year, and 25 percent in the third
year of their operation. The operation and maintenance of the monitoring and early-warning systems (to be
set up under the project) will be carried out by a unit within the MESCD, which will be defined during
project implementation.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million   US $million
A. Monitoring and Early Warning System                    0.00         2.35          2.35
B. Social Training and Safety-Related Supplies            0.28          0.42         0.70
C. Studies on Long-term Solutions                         0.00          0.38         0.38
D. Institutional Strengthening                            0.40         0.17          0.57
Total Baseline Cost                                       0.68          3.32         4.00
Physical Contingencies                                   0.03          0.16         0.19
Price Contingencies                                      0.04          0.06         0.10
Total Project Costs              0.75         3.54          4.29
Total Financing Required               0.75         3.54         4.29
Local       Foreignt    Total
ProjlectCs BY Ceory                    us smiirion   US $million   US $millionl
Goods                                                       0.00          1.82         1.82
Works                                                       0.10          0.00         0.10
Services                                                    0.21          1.72         1.93
Operating expenses for project management                   0.11          0.00         0.11
Recurrent costs for monitoring and early warning systems    0.33          0.00         0.33
Total Project Costs     0.75           3.54         4.29
Total Financing Required      0.75          3.54         4.29
-32 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Summary of benefits and costs:
The project is expected to generate substantial benefits in terms of reduced vulnerability to natural hazards
(either the high-magnitude, low-frequency event as represented by an outburst flood from Lake Sarez, or
the low-magnitude, high frequency events such as rockfalls and seasonal floodings, which are common in
the project area). This project relates entirely with the protection of human lives and the reduction in the
number of lives lost. It will directly benefit about 130,000 people located in the Bartang and along the
Tajik side of the Panj river (Rushan Region of the Gorno-Badakstan Autonomous Oblast) by improving
their alertness and preparedness to natural disasters. A substantial portion of the project cost will go to
protect the population most at risk, about 19,000 inhabitants living in the Bartang valley just below the
lake, by providing them with an early warning system based on an automatic protocol.
The cumulative lives lost caused by annual rockfalls, debris flows, catastrophic rainfall, avalanches and
flooding in the Pamir Mountains have not been quantified yet, but they are real. This project will also help
to reduce these losses. During the summer of 1999, the entire village of Razuch (254 inhabitants) that
previously received training on preparedness to emergencies from Focus Humanitarian Assistance
(FOCUS), an NGO affiliated with the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN), organized itself and
effected a total evacuation to a safe place in response to rockfalls and mudflows caused by heavy rains that
destroyed several houses. No victim was registered among the villagers.
The project will also generate substantial indirect benefits by reducing the uncertainty associated with the
hazard from Lake Sarez and by generating the basic information and producing the technical capabilities
used in the decision-making process for respondihg to the challenge of Lake Sarez, thus indirectly
benefiting the populations of Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan (about 5,000,000
people) located in the Amu Darya river basin downstream from the lake.
Main Assumptions:
The use of traditional methods of cost-benefit analysis for the project is not feasible. Specific quantification
of project benefits cannot be made because of the difficulty to estimate failure probabilities and associated
risks on the basis of the currently available data. Any quantification is unreliable until meaningful data set
of observations from the monitoring system are available. Also, except for the number of lives saved, it is
not possible to estimate the marginal benefit of improving the current monitoring and early warning
systems resulting from the project. Instead, a cost-effectiveness analysis of the project was examined.
The main assumptions to estimate the number of life saved as a result of the monitoring and early waming
systems are indicated in the table below. The results of the analysis indicate that if the flood extends until
Rushan, the number of life saved would be 18,573, and if it extends until Moskovsky, then the number
would be 131,550. The cost-effectiveness analysis has been performed using the most conservative value.
- 33 -



Estimation of Life Saved as a Result of the Monitoring and Early Warning Systems
Village        Distance     Population      Average   Flood Wave   Potential
Below        at Risk         Flood       Arrival   Loss of Life
Usoi Dam                     Velocity      Time
(km)                       (m/sec)       (min)
____________  (1)          (2)         (3)
Barchidev                  16.0            200          50.6           5        24.02
Rukhch                     25.0            276          48.7           9        29.14
Savnop                     30.0            322          48.0          10        31.97
Nisur                      36.0             225         47.8          13        25.78
Yapshur                    41.0            231          47.2          14        26.19
Vrinjav                    48.0             27          47.0          17         7.22
Chadud                     66.0             175         42.3          26        22.17
Basid                      70.0            671          41.6          28        49.66
Dorjdasht                  75.0             49          40.7          31        10.33
Zarjif                     81.0              14         39.9          34         4.87
Ajirch                     95.0              86         38.3          41        14.48
Razuch                    108.0             256         37.7          48        27.86
Darjomch                  114.0            230          37.3          51        26.12
Rawif                     126.0             180         36.9          57        22.55
Suponj                    127.0            480          36.9          57        40.62
Dasht                     131.0             191         48.0          45        23.37
Visaw                     131.0             168         48.0          45        21.64
Shijez                    138.0            231          34.1          67        26.19
Patrud                    147.0               3         27.3          90          1.93
Jizeu                     152.0              71         27.1          93         0.01
Rid                       156.0              40         27.0          96         0.01
Bahu                      160.0             154         26.8          99         0.03
Yimptz                    165.0             520         26.6         103         0.10
Shojan                    170.0            1114         26.3         108         0.22
Ajzev                     175.0              15         25.9         112         0.00
Rushan                    180.0           4165          25.7         117         0.83
Derzud                    186.0            1246         25.4         122         0.25
Barzud                    188.0            1126         25.4         123         0.23
Barushan                  193.0           2194          25.4         126         0.44
Darushan                  196.0            1670         25.4         128         0.33
Vamgde                    202.0             744         25.4         132         0.15
Shidze                    212.0            923          25.4         139         0.18
Vazdnav                   222.0            491          25.4         145         0.10
Deh                       232.0             390         25.4         152         0.08
Shpat                     241.0             134         25.4         158         0.03
Between Rushan and
Moskovsky                   245         13,000          25.4         161         2.60
Moskovsky Plain             245        100,000          25.4         161        20.00
Total                                  132,012                                    462
-34 -



Notes:
(I) Source: IDNDR June 1999 mission report, Annex 1
(2) Source: flood scenarios for the Murgab, Bartang and Panj valleys, Focus, October 1999
(3) Loss of Life = (population at risk) ^O.6 for warning time < 90 min;
Loss of Life = 0.0002* (population at risk) for waming time > 90 min
Source: USBR, 1986 "Guidelines to Decision Analysis, ACER Technical
Memorandum N.7", Engineering and Research Center, Denver, Colorado.
A crude risk analysis was carried out to examine the impacts of two disaster scenarios: the total wash-out
of the lake, and the over-topping of the lake without failure of the dam. The analysis shows that the impacts
in terms of number of life saved are substantially the same in both scenarios.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
On the basis of the cost-effectiveness analysis, this project is found to be a cost effective means of
protecting the lives of the poor. The analysis used the cost-per (statistical)-life-saved and the cost per
disability-adjusted life year (DALY) saved as measures to assess the cost worthiness of the investment. The
formner indicator is used by some government agencies to assess safety measures (not necessarily associated
with dams). The cost-per (statistical)-life-saved for this project was found to be in the order of USS232.
The best comparison for this value would be the cost of an alternative life protection program or the extra
compensation required by workers in Tajikistan to undertake risky jobs. However, this comparison is
limited by the availability of reliable data. In the absence of this information, a comparison was carried out
on the basis of international benchmarks.
The U.S. Federai Govermment practice in financing "Life-Protecting-Programs" considers the justification
of such programs as "Very Strong," when the cost per life saved is less than US$3 million (see table
below). In this particular case, the project will invest almost four orders of magnitude less than the
minimum threshold considered by the U.S. Federal Governnent for a "Very Strong" justification of the
investment. Just for reference, values of a (statistical)-life saved based on extra compensation of workers in
the United States vary from US$1.0 million to US$8.0 million.
U.S. Federal Government practice in Financing Life-Protecting-Programs
In US$, 1999 prices
Range of Cost-per-(statistical) Life-Saved
Justification              Greater than Equal to             Less than
Very strong                                                 3,000,000
Strong                        3,000,000                  30,000,000
Moderate                      30,000,000                  140,000,000
Poor                        140,000,000
The cost per DALY saved for this project, based on rough estimates of the potential reduction in deaths
(about 18,570), the probability of the outburst flood from Lake Sarez (estimated at 5% and consistent with
the value given to an event considered "very unlikely"), and the number of lost DALYs represented by the
- 35 -



death of one person (about 23), was found in the order of US$ 194. A country specific comparison is also
limited by the availability of detailed cost-effectiveness studies in the country - i.e., this could be monitored
when the Primary Health Care Project (Cr.3324-TJ) starts producing such information. The cost per
DALY saved for this project, however, is in line with the range acceptable under the standards established
in the 1993 World Development Report (i.e., less than USS250 per DALY saved).
-36 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Funding         Totals Including Contin2encies (in '000 USS)
COMPONENTS                        Source          2001   2002   2003   2004   2005  Total
A. Monitoring and Early Warning Systems
1. Design, technical assistance and training      SWISS a         0.40   0.28   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.80
2. Equipment supply, installation, training and spare parts  SWISS b  0.67   0.67   0.06   0.06   0.06   1.50
3. Panel of Experts                               SWISS b         0.08   0.08   -       0.04   -      0.20
Subtotal                                                           1.14   1.03   0.10   0.14   0.10   2.50
B. Social Training and Safety-Related Supplies
I. Technical assistance for community-based EWS   AKDN/USAID c 0.22   0.21   -          -      -      0.43
2. Safety-related supplies including minor civil works  AKDN/USAID c 0.16   0.16   -    -      -      0.32
Subtotal                                                          0.38   0.37   -       -      -      0.75
C. Studies on Long Term Solutions                   SWISS a         0.20   0.20   -       -      -      0.40
D. Institutional Strengthening
1. Project management including operating expenses  IDA/GoT       0.12   0.11   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.23
2. Equipment and furniture for Sarez Agency       IDA/GoT         0.07   0.04   -       -      -      0.11
3. Operation and maintenance expenses for M&EWSs  IDA/GoT         -       -      0.09   0.09   0.09   0.30
Subtotal                                                           0.19   0.15   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.64
Total FINANCING                                                     1.91   1.74   0.20   0.24   0.20   4.29
BY FUNDING SOURCE
IDA                                                                0.17   0.14   0.07   0.05   0.04   0.47
SWISS STATE SECRETARIAT FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS (tied)               0.60   0.48   0.04   0.04   0.04   1.20
SWISS STATE SECRETARIAT FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS (untied)             0.74   0.75   0.06   0.10   0.06   1.70
AGA KHAN DEVELOPMENT NETWORK (AKDN)                                0.25   0.25   -      -      -      0.50
US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (USAID)                   0.13   0.12   -       -      -      0.25
GOVERNMENT OF TAJIKISTAN (GoT)                                    0.01   0.01   0.03   0.05   0.06   0.17
Total PROJECT FINANCING                                             1.91   1.74   0.20   0.24   0.20   4.29
Footnotes:
a. This sub-component will be financed under a Swiss-Tajik Inter-government Agreement (tied parallel financing arrangement)
b. This sub-component will be financed under a Swiss Trust Fund Agreement (untied parallel financing arrangement)
c. This sub-component will be financed by grants from the AKDN and USAID, and will be implemented by FOCUS
- 37 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Procurement
Civil works and good under the Bank financed component (Component D) of the project will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit" published in
January 1995 including all revisions up to January 1999. Contracts for Consulting Services required for
Component D will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will
be used. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business of the UN in
its issue of July 5, 2000 and will be annually updated.
All procurement for the project will be coordinated and approved by the Sarez Agency. The PIU of the
Education Reform Project (ERP-PIU) will have overall responsibility of the management of all
procurement under the project. The Administrator Officer of the project will liaise with the ERP-PIU, and
will be responsible for the upstream work, such as preparation of advertisements and bidding documents;
for initiating internal approval and contract signature; and for maintaining up-to-date and accurate project
procurement records. The Administrator Officer will be trained by the ERP-PIU in Bank procurement
procedures and practices.
Component D of the project involves the procurement of goods and services. The procurement procedures
are described in the following paragraphs and summarized in Tables A and Al.
(a) Goods. Goods consisting of data management equipment, office equipment, vehicles, office
furniture, monitoring equipment and supplies under Component D financed by the IDA credit will be
grouped under five separate packages. For good procurement packages estimated to cost less than
$100,000 and up to US$50,000 each (approximately US$99,000), International Shopping (IS) based
on the comparison of quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in two different countries will be
applied. For locally available off-the-shelf goods, estimated to cost up to US$50,000 each
(approximately US$8,000), National Shopping (NS) will be applied based on comparison of quotations
obtained from at least three supplies. Procurement of goods funded by SECO out of the Swiss Trust
Fund administrated by the Bank (approximately US$1.5 million) will be procured using International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Other goods financed by the donors subject to parallel financing
(approximately US$ 350,000) will be procured according to the procedures of the donors.
(b) Consultants' Services. Consulting services (US$98,000) to be financed under the IDA credit will be
procured as follows. Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for auditing services contracts
less that or equal to US$35,000 for three years. Individual consultants will be hired in accordance with
Section V of the Guidelines. Individual consultants will be used for small assignments of short-term
duration -- such as operation and maintenance of the monitoring and early warning systems - for an
aggregated amount of US$44,600. The advisory and support services for procurement and financial
management for a maximum amount of US$18,000 will be sole-sourced to the ERP-PIU as the only
organization in Tajikistan with sufficient expertise and idle capacity. The five consultants to conformed
the Panel of Experts, whose services will be funded by the Swiss Trust Fund, have already been
selected following individual selection procedures (US$200,000).
- 38 -



(c) Project Management Operating Costs. The incremental expenses incurred by the Sarez Agency
(until June 30, 2002) on account of implementation of the LSRMP, including consultant salaries,
workshops/seminar logistics expenses, fuel, vehicle insurance and inspection, office and vehicle
maintenance and repair, transportation expenses to the lake, access path expenses, office consumable,
will be procured in accordance with an annual budget to be approved by the Bank (USS175,000).
(d) Recurrent Costs for Monitoring and Early Warning System. The project includes USS259,000 to
meet the incremental expenses incurred by the new unit in charge of the operation and maintenance of
the monitoring and early-warning systems (after the installation of the systems - around July 01,
2002). These recurrent costs include salary of locally recruited specialists, satellite connection fee,
satellite check connection fee, transportation expenses to the lake, office consumable, fuel, vehicle
insurance and inspection, office and vehicle maintenance and repair. The IDA credit will finance up to
US$120,000 of these costs for the duration of the project on a declining basis, 75% first year, 50%
second year, and 25% third year.
Prior Review. The ICB package for goods financed by SECO will be subject to Bank's prior review. All
IS and NS contracts will also be subject to Banks prior review. All terms of reference for all individual
consultants will be subject to prior review and the qualifications, experience, and terms of employment of
individual consultants will be furnished to the Bank for its prior review approval. The Request for
Proposal, short list, termns and conditions of contracts as well as evaluation reports and recommendation
for award will be prior reviewed by the Bank for all firm contracts selected under LCS and SS.
Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed
procurement plan presented in the PIP, which will be updated if necessary and included in the progress
reports for Bank review. All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be
cleared by a procurement accredited staff and relevant technical staff.
- 39 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
.Procurement Method                     :
Expenditure,Category            ICB         ProNCB   O      th r2            N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.10           0.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00           0.11           1.85           1.96
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.1 1)        (0.00)         (0.1 1)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00           0.10           1.70           1.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.09)         (0.00)         (0.09)
4. Project Management                0.00           0.00           0.17           0.00           0.17
Operating Costs                     (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.15)         (0.00)         (0.15)
5. M&EWSs Operation and             0.00            0.00           0.26           0.00           0.26
Maintenance Costs                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.12)         (0.00)         (0.12)
Total                             0.00           0.00           0.64           3.65           4.29
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.47)         (0.00)         (0.47)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 2. Goods: "Others" includes four IS packages for data management equipment (USS23K), office
equipment (US$22K), vehicles (USS18K), monitoring equipment (USS36K), and one NS package for
furniture (US$8K)
3. Services: "Others" includes four individual consultant (US$45K), one LCS for audit services
(US$35K), and one single source for financial management and procurement (USSI 8K). Audit costs will
be covered by IDA proceeds.
4. Project management operating costs: "Others" includes the incremental expenses incurred by the Sarez
Agency on account of implementation of the LSRMP (until June 30, 2002) such as salaries of
incremental staff, consultant salaries, workshops/seminar logistics expenses, fuel, vehicle insurance and
inspection, office and vehicle maintenance and repair, transportation expenses to the lake, access path
expenses, office consumable (USS 175K).
5. M&EWSs operation and maintenance costs: "Others" includes incremental expenses incurred by the
new unit in charge of the operation and maintenance of the monitoring and early-warning systems (after
July 01, 2002 and through the end of the project) such as salary of locally recruited specialists, satellite
connection fee, satellite check connection fee, transportation expenses to the lake, office consumable,
fuel, vehicle insurance and inspection, office and vehicle maintenance and repair (US$ 115,000).
-40 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                  Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS       QBS       SFB       LCS        CQ       Other     N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category__ _ _ _                                     __ _ _ _  __  _ _ _
A. Firms           0.00      0.00      0.00      0.04      0.00      0.00       1.50      1.54
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.04)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.06      0.20      0.26
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.00)    (0.05)
Total   0.00     0.00      0.00       0.04      0.00      0.06      1.70      1.80
_  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.04)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.00)    (0.09)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practice, and sole source
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 41 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B below applies to all packages financed by t-he IDA Credit.
TabNe B: Trmsh ads fer 'Prouzrernent Methods and Prior Review'
T     --  Cot Vae       I                           Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category I    fUS$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works              I                                   ICB                      N/A
2. Goods               {         > 100                    ICB                       (a)
< 100                     IS                      0.10
___ ___ ___ _ _   < 50             NS                       0.01
3. Services            |                              Ind, LCS, SS                 0.11
otaZ ve.ue of contracts subject to prior review:  USSO.22 million or
48% of IDA credit
GvarsiZ Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of p-curement quaervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision fbor post-review/audits)
Note: (a) Funded by SECO out of Swiss Trust Fund.
Thresholds generaliy differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact tihe Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Crerit Procs-ods
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million   _=ny Percentg
Goods                                       0.10              - 1 00% of foreign expenditures
- 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
80% iocal expenditures for other item
.________ .procured locally
Consultant services                         0.09                100% of total expenditures
Incremental operating costs for project     0.10                100% of total expenditures
management                                                       (through June 30, 2002)
Incremental operating and maintenance       0.16           - 75% from July 1, 2002 until June 30,
costs for monitoring and early waming                                    2003
systems                                                          50% until June 30, 2004
- 25% thereafter
Unallocated                                 0.02
Total Project Costs                         0.47
Total                                       0.47
Disbursement Procedures: A Special Account would be opened in a commercial bank acceptable
to the World Bank, and managed by the Sarez Agency. The Initial Deposit (Authorized Allocation) would
be US$40,000. The Sarez Agency would comply with Disbursement Handbook guidelines, including:
3   Payments out of the Special Account would cover eligible expenditures under the Project, the Sarez
Agency would reimburse the Special Account for any ineligible expenditures;
e   Replenishments to the Special Account would be made on a monthly basis, or whenever the balance
reaches less than one-third of the Authorized Allocation; and
*   Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedures would be followed for expenditures for: (a) goods under
coniracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) consulting fin-ns, under contracts costing
less than USS20,000 equivalent; (c) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than
US$10,000 each; and (d) project management incremental operating costs and operation and
maintenance costs of monitoring and early warning systems, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall speciifr by notice to the Borrower.
-43 -



Schedule of Disbursements
(In USS thousands)
Semester Ending/Fiscal Year              -         Disbursements
Semester Amount             Cumulative Percent
(USS thousand)
December 31, 2000                         87                            18
June 30, 2001                             87                           37
December31, 2001                          68                           51
June 30, 2002                             68                           66
December 31, 2002                         33                           73
June 30, 2003                             33                           80
December 31, 2003                         26                           86
June 30, 2004                             26                           91
December 31, 2004                         21                           96
June 30, 2005                             21                           100
The project would be completed on June 30, 2005. A period of six months would be allowed to
complete disbursements, with the Credit Closing Date on December 31, 2005
-44 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       11                            11
First Bank mission (identification)              05/15/99                      05/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                      03/10/2000                    03/13/2000
Negotiations                                     04/17/2000                    04/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/15/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Technical assistance was provided to the Project Team during the project preparation process by:
Attilio Zaninetti (Monitoring and Early Warning Systems), Bruno Periotto (Assessment of
Accessibility), Jack Ives (Social Scientist), Behrooz Ross-Sheriff (Expert on Social Issues in
Tajikistan), Gurdev Singh (Procurement), and Nodira Karimova (Translator/Interpreter)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Alessandro Palmiieri               Task Team Leader/Senior Dams Specialist
Rita Cestti                        Water Resources Economist
Junko Funahashi                    Counsel
Dominic Haazen                     Financial Management Specialist
Naushad Khan                       Senior Procurement Specialist
Ohn Myint                          Peer Reviewer
Asger Christensen                  Peer Reviewer
A. Ceyhan                          Peer Reviewer
Matin Kholmatov                    Project Assistant (Dushanbe)
Tashon Hemdon                      Staff Assistant
Michelle Watts                     Staff Assistant
-45 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan*.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Tajikistan Lake Sarez Risk Mitigation Project, PCD and Technical Annex.
Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursement.
C. Other
Brief Report on Sarez Lake Problem. Summary of Studies Carried out Since 1982 (Draft). D. Selement,
May 26, 1999 *.
UN/IDNDR Interagency Risk Assessment Mission to Lake Sarez, Mission Findings and Recommendations
(Draft Version), July 15, 1999 *.
Progress Reports of Disaster Preparedness and Prevention Program in the Bargtan Valley, FOCUS
Humanitarian Assistance.
*Including electronic files
-46 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                      IBRO      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P057953        1999 Taiikistan                EDUCATION                                           0.00       5.00       0.00      4.66       0.50       0.00
P059055        1999 Tajikistan                EMG FLOOD ASST                                      0.00       5.00       0.00      2.18       0.15       0.00
P049718        1999 Tajikistan                FARMPRIVATIZ.SUPPT-UTJ                              00        20.00       0.00      19.24      2.79       0.00
P059755       1999 Tajikistan                 IEJTA 11                                            0.00       6.70       0.00      8.58       0.24       0.00
P053386       1998 Taqikistan                 P-C RECONSTRUCTION                                  0.00      10.00       0.00      0.72       0.09       0.00
P044202        1997 Taikislan                 PILOT POVERTY ALLEV.                                0.00      12.00       0.00      2.88       1.79       0.00
P049894       2000 Tajikistan                 PRIM HEALTH CARE                                    0.00       5.40       0.00      5.22       0.00       0.00
P047438       1999 Tajikistan                 SAC I      .                                        0.00      56.70       0.00      13.76      7.07       0.00
P068786       2000 Tajikistan                 EMG FLOOD ASST - SUPPLEM.                           0.00       2.00       0.00      2.00       0.00       0.00
P043231       1996 Tajikistan                 IBITA I                                             0.00       5.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total:        0.00     127.80         0.00      57.04      12.683     0.00
-47 -



TAJIKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               Nelson Gold                     0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00      0.00    0.00
1997/98            Zeravshan Gold                  1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         1.50    3.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    2.00       0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              Nelson Gold                        0.00      0.00   2050.56      0.00
2000               SEF Holland Smkt                400.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       400.00      0.00   2050.56      0.00
-48 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TAJIKISTAN: LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central      Low-
TaJlkistan     Asia   Income        Development dlamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                          6.1        473      3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                       350      2,190       520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         2.1      1,039      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98                                                                           0
Population I(%)                                          1.5        0.1        1.7     GNGrs
Labor force (%)                                          2.4        0.6        1.9      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                  capita                           primary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of lotat population)                  33         68        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          68         69        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  30         23        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                        Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                    69                   74
Illiteracy (% of population age t5+)                       1          4        32
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)      95        100       108                Tajikistan
Male                                                    97       101        113                   Low-income group
Female                                                  94        99        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998       Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                                       3.7        1.1        1.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                           29.9                   7.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                ,r
Gross domestic savings/GDP                              13.1
Gross national savingslGDP                                                                              l
Current account balancelGDP                                        -5.5      -10.8      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                               0.3        0 6           s                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                    107.3       91:2     Savinst
Total debt service/exports                                          5.0       13.0
Present value of debtVGDP                                          35.9
Present value of debt/exports                                      92.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                     .      11.9      1.7        5.3                              Tajikistan
GNP per capita                                -12.9      1.6        5.2                              Low-income group
Exports of goods and services
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1996       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                             26.3       27.1        8.8      0-
Industry                                                39.1       19.7      45.7      15
Manufacturing                                                                        -20
Services                                                   -                    -      -30.  . 
Private consumption                                     64.0                     .     4s0
General government consumption                          22.8                                        GDI0             GDP
Imports of goods and services
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                                            60 -
Industry                                                                              40 -j.
Manufacturing                                                                        20.4
Services                                                                               o -     ,      / 
Private consumption                                                                   -20     9           9      6    97    W
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment                                                             40
Imports of goods and services                                                                 -      Exports    -    mIports
Gross national product                                 -11.3        3.3        6.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-49 -



Tajikistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987        1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                 1.00o
Consumer prices                                     ..       ..       160.0       2.7
Implicit GDP deflator                               ..      2.9      101.4        0.9       r
400
Governmenf finance                                                                          200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                          |,
Current revenue                                     ..       ..        12.6      1 1.8               93    94   95   96    97    98
Current budget balance                              ..       ..        -2.1      -0.9                  GDP defiator   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             ..       ..        -4.0      -3.5
TRADE
(USS millions)'1977                                        1987       1997       1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 ..        ..       746        637      900
Aluminum                                           ..       ..        252       239
Cotton fiber                                      ..        ..        167       139      6us
Manufactures                                      ..
Total imports (cif)                                                    785        766
Food                                             3..
Fuel and energy                                   ..        ..       281        271
Capital goods                                     ..        ..         ..                  o_
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..92   93   94   9    9G   97   9
Import price index (1995=100)                       ...                                             *Erports        Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1 977    1987        1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratlo (%)
(USS miliions)
Exports of goods and services                       ..       ..        746        637       0
Imports of goods and services                       ..       ..        785        766           92
Resource balance                                    ..       ..        -39       -130      i2
Net income                                          ..       ..        -36        -41       4
Net current transfers                              ..        ..          ..                         I
Current account balance                             ..        ..       -60       -140       8
Financing items (net)                                        ..         76        176      -o-
Changes in net reserves                             ..        ..       -16        -36      -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)              ..       ..         30         65
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                    ..  1.80E-2       328.2     475.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977      1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                ..       ..       1,180     1,185
IBRD                                             ..        ..          0          0                   G:74   B:50 C:30
IDA                                               *                   50          0
Total debt service
I BRD37                                                                           -1
IDA                                                                    0          0                                        D: 070
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  ..        ..         68
Official creditors                               ..        ..         14
Private creditors                                ..        ..          0
Foreign direct investment                         ..       ..         20
Portfolio equity                                                       0                               E:551
World Bank program                                                                          A- IBRO                        E - Bilateral
Commitments                                      ..        ..         22          0        A - ID      Other mulilatral   F- Private
Disbursemehts                                    ..        ..         22          0      C       -  IMt                  G - Short-term
Principal repayments                             ..                   20         0
Net flows                                         ..       ..         22          0
Interest payments                                ..        ..          0          0
Net transfers                                    ..        ..         22          0
Development Economics                                                                                                           9/22/99
- 50 -



IBRD 30783
KA u STAN  ,,.6 '<Y/                                                                                                         TAJIKISTAN
LAKE SAREZ RISK MITIGATION PROJECT
-  t   TTshut_   f  ToToobbon| COVERAGE OF MONITORING SYSTEM                             T_   LAKES
jMATCHo '                       < ASHT                      \ \  COVERAGE OF EARLY WARNING SYSTEM                      ROADS
t    t     /    ,       o       UZBEKISTAN          |       COVERAGE OF SOCIAL STUDIES                           RAILROADS
T. WiW                                                                                      -- - - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~*RURAL DISTRICTS
UZBEKISTAN         ZAFAROBOD                                                    ODOM          o             SELECTED CITIES                            ----   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST IOUNDARIES
f         ~~~0 AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTERS'----ATNMUOBSTONDRE
chkd0~~~  ~  I    RA   -'      OBLAST CENTERS                         -      - ~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDARIES"
< -      .NNP -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TY ~~  p   POOLET/AR ~~~~~  I'  '.. ~NATIONAL CAPITAL
Ur~~~~~i\    /~~~~~~~.;                                     R-- IVERS
A-   J wth -n 1tobloot-l.ed.inkloot i,odinision-,  h end  dnotndop6lobio juoiodition
SHAHRISTONq   &q          * 9                              /                                                             ''AnoblaseisnomedonlywhanitsnamodifkarshDm haAbn,nnnn nefnnhfnnnoo0
_  S 0 j + ~~~~~~~~~~KYRGYZ REP. ;'zj
i;    PENJIKENT            t A I N I            - , ^   |              GHARM           _l _>   <         J  /    \    ~    ffi-ffi-t ~ z-8                                     C H ICNI A
%sZ+s~ x> VA    R O KfOFARNiHO S   DAR                                                                             Karai\.o~~    ~/ Zkul ' i \   Tafiu
.I1 X  A jJ 2 so&<J ,'  w  s o    TAViLDARA                                                                A I TAN
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lk
TURSUNZADE- tT' D+                                                                                r A                      7iS  
TaDrfKs < 1s H; 1. . ~~~~~HOVALING                             ,.VANCH\(  
The scondcroo, colons, donominotions*KL*
lbS  cop do not inoply, on nb- pont ofIYURuA
KOLV40ZABAD ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     w KhoSe                                          AAKSA
O. Ain FgltOo  Gln  Hniono           0                      0lOioA                                                      K IIS TA N  -          b*                               no i,   ',
-DiUoTWla  _-  - - -t KA                            ZbKASTAN Nk 
Thik mop do-no  bmply, on th pcrt of         I      I      |      |                                      !                                        . /    TURKhAENISIAN  \          --!  \. KYRGYZ RY0
Mp-  Ui.T6World6akru,n Bdgmen U ZB1lEs'AKISTAN  '''DhZb ;   -
suchWond a-kos                                                                                    _'p -yAICE j.g-  I                                                               _tk             HN
61'                                                 ;                       72?                             OF IRAN      !,    FHNSA  



