                                                                                       suGqs ,-
The World Bank                                               1818 H Street N.W.              (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT        Washington. D.C. 20433     ·    Cable Address: INTSAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                        U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEVAS -.


                                                                                            September 12, 2000


        Mr. Gulomjon Babaev                              ·^ y--   -   -   -   ^                               .^^x^
        State Advisor to the President of the
          Republic of Tajikistan on Economy
        80 Rudaki Avenue
        Dushanbe                                                                       ,7
        Republic of Tajikistan

                           Re: Swiss Grant Agreement for Lake Sarez Risk Mitigation Proje^
                             Grant TF023507
                                                                                                       s    ^




        Dear Mr. Babaev:                                                                             7 r'^'^ 1 V

               I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the Association) to
        indicate the Association agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of
        the Swiss Confederation, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million seven hundred
        thousand dollars CUSS 1,700,000) equivalent (the Grant) to the Government of the Republic of
        Tajikistan (the Recipient).

              The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the
        purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The
        Recipient represents, by confimling its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and
        withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.

                Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing,
        dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the
        Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will
        become effective upon the countersignature and declaration of effectiveness of the Development
        Credit Agreement for Tajikistan: Lake Sarez Risk Mitigation Project has been issued.

                                                   Very truly yours,
                              INTERNATIONAL-DEVELOPI'4 NT ASSOCIATION

                                             By
                                                    Nancy Cooke
                                               Acting Country Director
                                              Central Asia Country Unit
                                               Europe and Central Asia
        AGREED     -




        By
        Name G. f^Rnc
        Title 5Gi(                      k?
        Date:   Q={:^,^.
                                                                                              ANNEX

                          Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant

       Purposes and Activities

1.1.     The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the implementation of the Lake Sarez Risk
Mitigation Project (the Project), which has as main objective to support the Government of
Tajikistan in its efforts to build national capacity to plan, coordinate, promote and implement
sustainable mitigation and preparedness activities to reduce the threat posed by the potential
outburst of Lake Sarez. The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are parts of
component A of the Project defined in the Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, as
follows:

        (a) Provision of goods for the installation of a monitoring system and an early warning
system, which is estimated to cost US$1,500,000 equivalent; and

        (b) Appointing and retaining a panel of experts during the duration of the Project, which is
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent.

2.      Implementation Generally

2.1. The Recipient through the Sarez Agency within the Ministry of Emergency Situations and
Civil Defense shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose, including those
included in the Attachment III; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the
proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange
views with the Association's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e)
take all necessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the territory of Tajikistan for
purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the
Association shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of
the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the results and
impact of the Activities.

2.2.    The Government of Tajikistan will ensure the sustainability of the monitoring and early
warning systems by allocating sufficient funds and resources, from the annual budget, for the
operation and maintenance of the systems.

        Procurement

3.1.    Except as the Association otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants' services and
goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment Ito this Annex.

3.2. The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a
freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.





   4.      Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

   4.1.    The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Association on its
   books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the
   Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the
   reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the
   proceeds of the Grant.

   4.2.    The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
   and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:

                                               Amount of the                          % of
                                              Grant Allocated                    Expenditures to
                 Item                       (in US$ equivalent)                   be Financed

   (1) Consultants' services                      200,000                100%


   (2) Goods                                      1,500,000              100% of foreign expenditures;
                                                                         100% of local expenditures
                                                                         (ex-factory cost); and 80% of
                                                                         local expenditures for other
                                                                         items procured locally.

   TOTAL                                             11 111



   For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
   of any country other than that of the Republic of Tajikistan for goods or services supplied from the
   territory of any country other than that of the Republic of Tajikistan, and the term "local
   expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, provided, however, that if
   the currency of the Republic of Tajikistan is also that of another country from the territory of which
   goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
   deemed to be foreign expenditures.

   4.3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:

            (a) No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for
   expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Association; (ii) on
   account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of
   expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods
   produced in or services supplied from such territories; or (iv). for the purpose of any payment to
   persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Association's
   knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
   VII of the Charter of the United Nations;

           (b) No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2005 or
   such later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).
   However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the
   Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Association within four





   months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn
   from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and

            (c) If, in the Association's opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in
   the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the
   Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant
   then allocated to another item which, in the Association's opinion, will not be necessary to meet
   other expenditures.

   4.4.      When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall
   deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified
   by the Association. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by Mr.
   M. Ziyoev, Minister of Emergency Situations or Mr. A. Abdulloev, Director of Sarez Agency or
   such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such
   evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably request. Authenticated
   specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with
   the first application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an amount of the
   Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the
   Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that
   such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. The Association shall pay the
   amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the
   Recipient.

   4.5.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis
   of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of individual
   consultants costing less than US$10,000 equivalent; and (b) goods costing less than USS100,000
   equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
   Recipient.

   4.6.     Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant. The
   Association, at the Recipient's request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with
   the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to
   pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it shall be
   necessary, for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in
   terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.

   4.7.     To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in
   United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on
   terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
   off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
   in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.

           Accounts and Audits

5.1.       (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
   system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to
   the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
   resources and expenditures related to the Activities.

           (b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to
   in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
                                .


copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records and accounts and
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.

        (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records
and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

         Suspension and Cancellation

6.1. The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein
specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic
of Tajikistan, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development
credit agreement with Association shall have been suspended.

6.2. The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient
to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the
Association, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
                                                                                     Attachment I


                                           Procurement

Section I .Consultants' Services

Part A :General

        Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.

Part B :Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

      Services for the Panel of Experts under paragraph 1.1 (b) of the Annex shall be procured
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C :Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants

      Selection Planning

       Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1. to the Consultant
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

       With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost the equivalent of USS10,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.

3.    Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

Section II . Procurement of Goods

Part A:      General

      Goods shall be procured: (a), in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:        Procurement Procedures

       Goods under the Grant may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
the Guidelines and paragraph 2 of Appendix I thereto.

Part C:        Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

1.     Procurement Planning

         Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for these Activities shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix I to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

          Prior Review

         Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

          Post Review

         With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix Ito the Guidelines shall apply.
                                                                                      Attachment II


                                          Special Account

1.      For the purposes of this Attachment:

      (a)    the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of
the Annex to this Letter Agreement;

      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant;
and

        (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to USS40,000 to be
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Attachment.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.

3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)     The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.

         (b) (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.

              (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.     For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at
such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Association shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;

        (b)   if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of
time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)     if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or

     (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (,A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

       (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
                                                                                    Attachment III


                     Facilities and Services to be Provided by the Recipient
                               -




        The Recipient should provide the facilities and services listed below:

      (a) The Sarez Agency will provide, or arrange other parties to provide, free of charge to
the Consultant any data, maps and reports on past studies related to Lake Sarez.

       (b) The Sarez Agency will facilitate the temporary importation in Tajikistan of all
equipment and supplies related to the provision of the Consultant' services. The Sarez Agency
will also facilitate the supply of the necessary entry visa in Tajikistan for the Consultant' staff.

      (c) All the goods and services to be financed out of the Contribution will be exempted
from all customs duties, taxes and/or other charges (import duties, VAT, levies and fees of any
kind) imposed by the law of Tajikistan. The Government of Tajikistan will grant the permits
necessary for the temporary importation of the equipment required to implement the Activities.

       (d) The Government of Tajikistan will issue, free of charge and without delay, the
necessary entry visas for the Swiss consultants entrusted with the implementation of the
Activities as required for the smooth implementation of the Project. The Swiss consultants will
also be exempted from any custom duties, taxes and/or other charges imposed by the law of
Tajikistan applicable to any emoluments, personal belongings and equipment necessary for the
carrying out of these Activities. Alternatively, the Sarez Agency will provide for the payment, on
behalf of the Consultant' staff of Tajikistan withholding to the Tajikistan commissioner of
Income Tax.

     (e) The main place of work of the Swiss Main Consultant's staff will be Dushanbe. The
Agency will provide office accommodation for four persons, for the duration of the assignment.
The Consultant will have to provide the equipment necessary (computers, printers, vehicle, etc.).

      (f)   The Sarez Agency will provide helicopter transportation to lake Sarez at the cost of
US$7,500 per return-trip. Each return trip requires 6 hours of helicopter use. If the visit to the
lake requires a stop over exceeding 3 hours, then two return-trips should be allowed for. The
number and duration of the site visits will be proposed by the Consultant and agreed with the
Sarez Agency.

      (g) The Consultant will cover travel and accommodation costs of its staff during the site
inspections. Costs for the participation of the Sarez Agency staff will be covered by the Sarez
Agency.

      (h)    The Sarez Agency will provide adequate space for the training sessions.
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
