Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
CONFORMED COPY
April 2, 2003 
 
His Excellency 
Safaraly Nadjmiddinov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Dushanbe  
Republic of Tajikistan 
 
Re:  Swiss Grant Agreement for Lake Sarez Risk Management Project 
Amendment to the Grant Agreement (TF No.023507)
Your Excellency: 
 
In your letter dated February 6, 2003, the Association is requested to amend the above-
captioned Swiss Grant Agreement dated September 12, 2000 and countersigned on October 18, 
2000  (TF No.023507
)
(hereinafter, “the Grant Agreement”) in order to implement the Project more 
effectively. 
 
We are pleased to concur with this request, and agree to make the following amendments to 
the Grant Agreement: 
1. 
In the first line of sub-paragraph 2.1. of the Annex, the words “the Sarez Agency within” 
are deleted.  
2. 
In the first line of sub-paragraph 3.1 of the Annex, the sign “,” and the word “works” are 
added between the words “services and.” 
 
3. 
In the fourth line of sub-paragraph 4.1 of the Annex, the sign “,” and the word “works” are 
added between the words “goods and.” 
 
4. 
In sub-paragraph 4.2. of the Annex, the table is revised to read as follows: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Grant Allocated 
Expenditures to 
 Item
(in US$ equivalent)
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ 
services 
200,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,440,000 
100% of foreign expenditures; 
 
100%
of local expenditures (ex- 
 
factory cost); and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for other items 
 
procured locally 
 
(3) Works 
60,000 
90% 
 
TOTAL 1,700,000
Page  2
-
2
-
5. 
In the fourth, fifth and six lines of sub-
paragraph 4.4 of the Annex, the words “Mr. Ziyoev, 
Minister of Emergency Situations or Mr. A. Abdulloev, Director of Sarez Agency” are replaced 
with the words “Minister of Finance of the Recipient”. 
 
6. 
In Attachment I to the Grant Agreement, Sections I and II are revised to read as follows: 
 
“Section I.  Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997,  January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Services for the panel of experts under paragraph 1.1 (b) of the Annex shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  3
-
3
-
Section II
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section II. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$90,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$90,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$60,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$60,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of works, including basis specifications, the required completion date, 
a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contract who offers the lowest price quotation 
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
Page  4
-
4
-
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods and small works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of Part C.1 and Part C.2 of this Section II, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Association a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under small works 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.” 
7. 
In Attachment III to the Grant Agreement, the words “Sarez Agency” are replaced with the 
words “Ministry of Emergency Situations and Civil Defense.” 
 
Please confirm your agreement on behalf of the Republic of Tajikistan with the above 
amendments by signing, dating and returning to us one of the original copies of this Amendment 
Letter. The amendment will become effective as of the date of your countersignature. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
/s/ :Dennis de Tray 
Director 
Central Asia Regional Office 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
Page  5
-
5
-
CONFIRMED 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By: /s/ Safaraly Nadjmiddinov 
 
Title: Minister 
of 
Finance 
 
Date: 
May 27, 2003
 
