FiLE COpy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 106a-SYR
SYRIA
APPRAISAL OF THE DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 8, 1973
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit               Syrian Pound (LS)
US$1                '34. 0
US$1 million        =       LS4,000,000
LS1                 .      US$0.25
LS1 million                 US$250,o000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNS
Di        -    millimeter (1 millimeter - 0.039 inches)
cm        a    centimeter (1 cm - 0.39 inches)
m         a   meter (1 meter - 3.28 feet)
km2       U    kilometer (1 kilometer2  0.62 miles)
2l        .    square kilometer {l km  a 247.1 acres)
-    square meter (1 m  - 10'.76 sq ft)
53        *    cubic meter (1 a3 -  264.2 US gallons)
* /sec    -    cubic meters per second (1 m3/aec - 22.8 million
US gallons per day)
m3/year   .    cubic meters per year (1 million M3/y;ar - 723,753
US gallons per day)
lcd       a   liters per capita per day (1 ]ad  0.26 US gallons per
capita per day)
ha        -    hectare (1 ha - 2.471 acres)
1PEF      a    Dasscus Water Supply Agency
(Etablissement Public des ESaux de Figeh)
SGREAR         Consulting Engineers (French)
(Societe Grenobloise d'Xtudes *t d'Applications Hydrauliques)
SEURECA   *    Consulting Engineers (French)                    I
(Societ6 d'Etudes Pour l'Urbanisme l'Equipement et les
Canalisations)
FISCAL YEAR
EPEF: January 1 to December 31



SYRIA
APPRAISAL OF THE DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS .........     ..............  i
I.   INTRODUCTION ...      ...............................  1
II.   THE SECTOR ........     ............................   1
Background ..........                                  1
The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector in Syria .        2
Water Supply in the Damascus Area .............        3
III.   THE PROJECT .................00. so..o*o.e.o... 0..    4
Background s....             ...  0                    4
Project Description - Water Supply Component .         5
Project Description - Water Pollution Control
and Sewerage Studies ..........*...........          6
Cost Estimates ................s..............         6
Project Financing .......     .................*....   9
Procurement *..**.*.......0.55900009......00000..90.9
Disbursement @99OeSeS9............................    10
Project Administration - Water Supply Component       10
Project Administration - Pollution Control
Studies *09@90090000 0099999 990 009990090S@9       11
Land Acquisition and Water Rights       .............    12
Ecological Aspects o.*eoes9       o o.......... 0900099o    12
IV.   JUSTIFICATION *........... ..0 ..................     13
Wiater Supply Component . .......................     13
Pollution Control Studies       .....................  14
V.   THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY ..............       14
EPEF - Organization and Management    ............    14
Accounting and Audit * 00490*6*06*0990660**0090       15
VI.   FINANCE AND TARIFFS .*..........................      16
EPEF Finances - Present Position .                    16
Tariffs .                                             17
EPEF Financing Plan and Future Finances .*o**.s       19
Pollution Control Studies .....    ................   21
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED ... o ....     21
This report is based on the findings of iessrs. Williams, Grover and
Al-Khafaji, who visited Syria in November/December, 1972.






SYRIA
APPRAISAL OF THE DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex
1.      Existing Water Supply Facilities of EPEF.
2.      Population and Water Resources Utilization.
3.      Project Description.
4.      Cost Estimates.
5.      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.
6.      Construction Schedule.
7.      EPEF - Organization 1972.
8.      Projections of Population, Water Consumption and Water
Production.
9.      Economic Analysis.
10.      EPEF - Income Statements - Actual (1969-71) and Projected
(1972-82).
11.      EPEF - Cash Flow Statements - Actual (1969-71) and
Projected (1972-82).
12.      EPEF - Balance Sheet - Actual (1968-71) and Projected (1972-82).
13.      EPEF - Present Tariff.
14.      Assumptions for Financial Projections.
-man
1.        Barada and Orontes River Basins (IBRD 10296).
2.        Metropolitan Area of Damascus (IBRD 10297).






SYRIA
APPRAISAL OF THE DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of the Damascus water supply proj-
ect, for which an IDA credit of US$15.0 million is proposed. This would be
the Bank Group's first investment in this sector in Syria. Damascus, the
country's capital and one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the
world, is experiencing a population growth of 5% a year and now contains one
million people - about a sixth of the total population. Although for many
years Damascus has had an abundant supply of cheap and high-quality water
from the Figeh spring in the neighboring hills high above the city, peak
demand has now overtaken the maximum production capacity, so that the con-
sumers suffer growing shortages and restrictions in the dry season.
ii.       The project aims to augment the Damascus water supply by improving
the yield of the Figeh spring; increasing the transmission capacity by con-
struction of a 15-km tunnel from the spring to the city; and expanding the
storage and distribution system. As interim measures to increase the water
supply until completion of these works, leak detection and metering would
be improved and the oldest part of the distribution network progressively
replaced where the corrosive soils of the old city have adversely affected
the pipes.
iii.      The project also includes preliminary studies to combat water
pollution, not only in the Barada valley at Damascus but also in the Orontes
basin farther north where two important cities, Homs and Hama, are located.
Sewage treatment facilities are almost non-existent, and the river waters
have become dangerously polluted as a result of growing urbanization and
industrial expansion.
iv.       The pollution control studies component of the project would be
undertaken by the Government, and the water supply component would be admin-
istered by the Damascus Water Authority -- Etablissement Public des Eaux de
Figeh (EPEF). EPEF is an efficiently managed authority, although hampered
by staffing difficulties. Measures to eliminate these and other constraints
would be conditions of the proposed credit.
v.        The total project cost is estimated at US$32.6 million equivalent,
including US$1.0 million equivalent for the pollution control studies. Of
the US$17.8 million equivalent foreign exchange cost, US$2.8 million equiv-
alent represents pipes purchased by EPEF prior to appraisal and ineligible
for financing under the proposed credit. The remaining US$15.0 million
equivalent foreign exchange cost would be financed by the proposed credit;
US$14.2 million equivalent of this would be relent by the Government to EPEF
and US$0.8 million equivalent used for the pollution studies. The balance of
the project cost would be financed from internally generated funds of EPEF
and by a contribution from the Government. The Government's contribution for



- ii -
the water supplv component would be forthcoming from its central investment
pool, embodying the accumulated cash surpluses of state agencies, toward
which in past years EPEF has already contributed a substantial part of the
amount now needed. Retroactive financing from the IDA credit would amount
to not more than US$200,000 equivalent, in respect of feasibility studies
for the water supply component.
vi.       Construction and supply contracts to be financed by the proposed
credit xwould be subject to international competitive bidding. No local pref-
erance has been requested for bid comparisons.
vii.      The main item in EPEF's present tariff is a metered-supply rate of
LSO.20/m (US$0.19/1000 US gallons) which is very low and has not been changed
since it was reduced from LSO.25/m3 in 1949. The large investments called for
in the project, bringing a greatly increased charge for depreciation in their
train, and yet having a low initial load factor, may require this rate to
be increased in two installments to reach LSO.30/m3 by 1982, (or the tariff
to be otherwise modified to produce similar increases in revenues). These
tariffs would produce acceptable financial rates of return and are not expected
to influence the volume of water sales.
viii.     The proposed program of works represents the first major expansion
of the city's water production and transmission facilities in more than 40
years, and is unavoidable if Damascus is to avert serious water shortages
and consequential health h-zards. The major elements of the program repre-
sent the least-cost solution, chosen from among several alternatives.
Projected incremental ravenues from water sales provide an inadequate measure
of the importance to Syria of this project; however, using a price of
LSO.30/m3, the economic rate of return would be about 12%.
ix.       On the basis of the agreements reached, the project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$15.0 million equivalent.



SYRIA
APPRAISAL OF THE DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Syria has asked IDA to help finance a major ex-
pansion of the water supply of Damascus. IDA assistance is also requested
for pollution control and sewerage stu(dies in the Damascus area and for pol-
lution control studies in the Orontes River basin. An IDA credit of US$15.0
million is proposed, of which US$14.2 million would be for the Damascus water
supply. This would be the first Bank Group lending to Syria for either pur-
pose.
1.02      The water supply project has been prepared following feasibility
studies. Those for the expansion of the source facilities were prepared by
SOGREAH 1/ (France) and those for the distribution system by SEURECA 2/ (France).
Following a sector reconnaissance mission in August, 1971, pre-appraisal mis-
sions visited Damascus in March, 1972 and September, 1972. An appraisal mis-
sion visited Syria in November-December, 1972 (Messrs. Williams, Grover and
Al-Khafaji) at which time representatives of both consultants were in Damascus.
This appraisal report is based on the consultants' feasibility reports, on
information obtained from EPEF 3/ and on the findings of the missions.
II.   THE SECTOR
Background
2.01      Syria is bounded on the north by Turkey, on the east and south by
lraq and Jordan, and on the west mainly by Lebanon and the Mediterranean Sea
(i4ap 1). It is about one-third the size of France, with a total land area
of 185,000 km2 (71,000 square miles) of which four-fifths is mountainous,
desert or semi-arid.
2.02      The population of Syria exceeds six million, of whom roughly a
third live in the four largest cities of Damascus, Aleppo, Homs and Hama.
Apart from oilfields in the northeast, most of Syria's industrial development
is in and around these cities. From imperfect statistics, population growth
during 1960-70 has been estimated at 3.2% annually, but urban populations
appear to have increased at annual rates of 4% to 6% during this period.
1/   Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques.
2/   Societe d'Etudes pour l'Urbanisme, l'Equipement et les Canalisations.
3/   Etablissement Public des Eaux de Figeh, the Damascus Water Authority.



-2-
2.03      The climate varies from a Mediterranean type along the coast to
an extreme desert type in the southeast. Rainfall occurs mostly in the
winter months, being heaviest in the mountainous coastal region. The coun-
try's water resources are well-known and increasingly used. The main river
is the Euphrates which along with 'its tributaries is the principal source
of irrigation in the northeast and east. Syria's other rivers are small,
the most important being the Orontes (El-Assi), flowing through the cities
of Homs and Hama, and the Barada at Damascus. There are a number of impor-
tant aquifers, mainly in the limestone of the Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon ranges
Along Syria's western borders.
The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector in Syria
2.04      Three Ministries exercise jurisdiction over development and allo-
cation of hydraulic resources.  The Ministry of the Euphrates is responsible
for construction of the big Tabqa hydroelectric dam and future Euphrates
irrigation schemes; the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources for
other irrigation schemes and hydroelectric plants and for water resources
generally; and the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs for supervision
of municipalities' activities including water supply and sewerage. Except
in the larger cities, the latter Ministry designs water and sewerage systems,
the provincial governments construct them and the municipalities operate
them. Pollution control, however, is the responsibility of the Public Works
Ministry, which recently set up a special department for this purpose.
2.05      The four major cities and the main port, Latakia, have publicly
owned semL-autonomous water authorities responsible for all aspects of water
supply. Elsewhere, all but the smallest urban centers are said to have
water distribution systems. Aleppo, Homs and Hama have already embarked on
expansion schemes to meet forecast water demand, but Damascus requires major
investment for which Bank group aid is requested as a priority in the sector
(para 2.08).
2.06      Urbanization and industrial activity have created serious pollu-
tion problems in the larger cities. Fairly comprehensive combined sewer
networks exist in the major cities of Aleppo, Homs and Hama, but the cen-
turies-old system in Damascus is inadequate. None of these cities nor any
large industries have sewage treatment plants. The discharge of untreated
sewage into the relatively small rivers, whose dry weather flow is minimal,
causes them to be grossly polluted. The water supplied from the rivers for
downstream irrigation, industries and towns is deteriorating, at the expense
oL these users. Although both Homs and Hama lie on the Orontes River, their
traJitional source of water, the water authority of Homs is currently build-
ing a 30 km pipeline to bring groundwater to the city and the Hama authority
is  zi .-sidering a similar project.  The Pollution Control Department (para
2.04) Ias prepared draft legislation for regulating discharge of industrial
waste and is considering measures to control general sewage discharge; how-
ever, Frogress is hampered by the shortage of resources and diffusion of
scarce en¢ineering skills among the various authorities. Aleppo has a study
under way for the construction of waste water treatment facilities, but only
prel!-Tnary research has been commenced into pollution of the Barada River
(Damascus) and the Orontes (Homs and Hama).



- 3-
Water Supply in the Damascus Area
2.07      Damascus is one of the oldest continuously occupied cities in the
world.  The Barada River 1/ gave rise to the Al-Ghutta oasis in which Damascus
is located and there are remains of a Roman aqueduct which brought water to
the city from a source of the Barada, a large natural spring at Ain Figeh
15 km distant (Map 2). In subsequent ages, however, the water supply, both
for agriculture and human consumption, appears to have again depended on the
river flow and on wells until the early 20th century, when the Turkish author-
ities once more brought water to Damascus directly from Ain Figeh by pipeline.
The Ain Figeh waterworks were expanded over the years and in 1932 an aqueduct
was completed; distribution was organized by a communal syndicate, which in
1958 was transformed into a state enterprise, EPEF. Annex 1 describes the
existing water facilities. The Barada River now mainly provides irrigation
of the market gardens around the city. There is an elaborate system, dating
back centuries, for allocating agricultural water rights in the Damascus plain,
supervised by a hierarchy of committees.
2.08      As the capital and focus of government, as well as a large indus-
trial center, Greater Damascus has in recent years experienced population
growth of about 5% annually, and the present potable water system now serves
something over a million people (including many refugees from Palestine and
the southern war zone). The number of individual water connections is high
(about 130,000 - see Annex 2) and there are only 325 public taps, supplying
about one-fifth of the population. The capacity of the transmission system,
however, is limited to about 3 m3/sec, which is now barely enough to meet
peak demand (including losses); dry-season shortages and restrictions were
experienced in 1971 and 1972 and are growing. 2/ They will become more serious
unless the production and transmission facilities are expanded; as a short-
term remedy, increased attention must be paid to reducing unaccounted-for
water.
2.09      Because the Damascus water supply flows freely to the city by
gravity, requiring neither long-distance pumping nor treatment, EPEF has
not in the past felt called upon to pay much attention to husbanding the
incoming supply of water; flow measurement and recording have been perfunc-
tory, numerous leaking mains are suspected -- especially in the old city,
where centuries of continuous habitation have caused a build-up of organic
and unstable soil - and meters have been allowed to fall into disrepair.
The number of consumers with defective meters is believed to be considerable,
but since these consumers are merely charged on past consumption EPEF has
not so far tackled this problem. Meters are not routinely called in and
EPEF has only the most rudimentary testing and repair facilities. Faced now
1/   Believed to be the Abana River of the Bible (II Kings 5, 12).
2/   These shortages were caused by the limited capacity of the aqueduct.
However, in drought conditions in earlier years, the Figeh spring
yield had sometimes fallen as low as 2.4 m3/sec.



- 4 -
with a shrinking margin of supply over consumption, EPEF accepts that its
performance in these respects requires drastic improvement. The project
would include measures to remedy these deficiencies (para 3.25).
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01      EPEF realized within the past decade that the demand for water
resulting from Damascus' growing population was approaching the reliable
yield of the Figeh spring and its transmission system. Accordingly consul-
tants (SOGREAH from France) were engaged to study the situatioh. They pro-
vided a report on the hydrology of the spring in 1965 and made preliminary
recommendations for the improved utilization of the source. In 1969 the
same consultants were commissioned to carry out further studies on increas-
ing the spring yield and to complete a feasibility study on additional trans-
mission facilities between Figeh and Damascus. In 1972 SOGREAH were instructed
to prepare final designs and bidding documents for the priority elements in
the EPEF expansion program: source development, transmission facilities and
terminal reservoirs.
3.02      EPEF has also been concerned with the need to expand the distribu-
tion system to serve the growing population. In 1966 additional French con-
sultants (SEURECA, in collaboration with a retired engineer named Fontaine,
who had prepared previous reports on the system in 1953 and 1963) were en-
gaged to prepare a master plan for the distribution network for the year
1984. This master plan, which was based on an urban plan prepared by con-
sultants for Damascus Municipality for the period 1964-1984, included recom-
mendations for staged extensions to the system. With its limited resources
EPEF has been extending the distribution on the basis of this 1968 master
plan. SEURECA updated their previous report in 1972 by outlining a revised
program of work to be undertaken in the period 1973-1977, at an estimated
cost totalling LS 102 million (US$25.5 million).
3.03      While EPEF and its consultants were developinig plans to improve
the water supply in Damascus, other authorities were focusing on the increas-
ing problems of water pollution in the area. Damascus Municipality has the
prime responsibility for its wastewater system but technical assistance is
potvided by the 'Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs. In 1971 the Minis-
tr~ Jnvited bids from engineering consultants in a two stage procedure. In
the first stage, a competition for which four prizes totalling LS95,000 were
of fv?-ed, consulting firms were invited to assess the present situation and
outiir>e  concepts to be incorporated in a future master plan.  Twelve
consultants participated in this competition. The intention was that a
contract for the second stage, the preparation of a master plan, would be
negociat-. .ith one of the prize winners in the competition.  This approach
was abanuoaed when the Government subsequently requested that IDA consider
financnag the necessary studies concerning wastewater in Damascus in con-
junctior- with the water supply project.



- 5 -
3.04      Syria also requested IDA to assist in pollution control studies for
the Orontes River basin in conjunction with the Damascus water supply project.
Approximately 1.0 million people or 15% of Syria's population live in this
valley, location of the third and fourth largest cities in the country (Homs
and Hama - see M4ap 1). Industrialization and irrigation are increasing ra-
pidly in the valley and the water quality in the Orontes River, the princi-
pal water resource in the region, has deteriorated to such an extent that
major problems have arisen. The Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
has been studying the situation during the past two years and has instigated
limited improvements by encouraging major industries to increase their waste-
water treatment.
3.05      The project therefore consists of two parts.  The first, to be
undertaken by EPEF, is the Damascus water supply project. The other, to be
undertaken by the Government, comprises the water pollution control studies
for the Barada and Orontes Rivers and sewerage studies for Damascus.
Project Description - Water Supply Component
3.06      The project is intended to augment the water supply of Damascus
by improving the groundwater source, increasing the transmission capacity
to the city and improving and extending the distribution system. It con-
sists of:
(i) An underground cutoff wall to increase the available flow
and structures to prevent pollution from surface water at
Figeh spring;
(ii)  Test pumping at Figeh to determine the storage characteristics
of the aquifer and the maximum reliable yield which can be de-
veloped by pumping from the aquifer;
(iii)  A 15 km tunnel from Figeh to the western edge of Damascus;
(iv)  Reservoirs at the terminus of the tunnel and throughout the
distribution system with a total capacity of about 75,000 m3;
(v) Construction of a new pumping station and renovations to the
existing stations, including equipment to control pumping on
the basis of reservoir levels;
(vi)  Installation of new mains (about 370 km) and replacement of
existing mains (about 160 km) in the distribution system;
(vii)  Equipment to assist in the operation and maintenance of the
distribution system;
(viii) Assistance of engineering and management consultants; and
(ix)  Training for EPEF staff in management and engineering.



- 6 -
A full description is given in Annex 3 and the main elements are outlined
on Map 2.
Project Description - Water Pollution Control and Sewerage Studies
3.07      The principal sources of pollution along the Orontes River are the
relatively small number of sewer outfalls from industrial plants and town
sewer networks.   The studies would analyze the present pollution loads and
their effect on water quality and existing patterns of use.  Projections will
be made of future patterns of water use and associated pollution loads. A
master plan will be prepared for the optimum location, degree and staging of
wastewater treatment facilities in accordance with the projected utilization
of river water and relevant water quality standards. The sewerage of the
towns will not be studied in detail since these systems are reasonably com-
plete already. After the master plan and its recommended first stage are
reviewed by the Government, the consultants would proceed to complete engi-
neering designs to permit tendering for any treatment facilities required
for the towns in the immediate future.
3.08      Similar studies will be made of water use and pollution loads along
the Barada River. Since the sewer network of Damascus is inadequate and the
river is in fact the main sewer, considerable attention will be paid to the
sewerage of the urban area. The present system will be analyzed and a master
plan prepared for the sta2ed development of sewer networks and appropriate
treatment facilities. A feasibility study and preliminary engineering will
be completed for works required to be constructed in Damascus in the first
stage.
3.09      The studies will deal with the institutional and financial aspects
of the pollution problems so that implementation of the first stage can pro-
ceed when the master plans are prepared. Draft terms of reference for the
consultants, who are expected to be engaged in the second half of 1973, call
for the studies for Damascus sewerage and the Barada River to be completed
in 18 months, and those for the Orontes River six months earlier. The proj-
ect also includes training for Syrian technical staff and the purchase of
special equipment for monitoring water quality.
Cost Estimates
3,10      The estimated costs of the project are summarized below.  Detailed
cost estimates are shown in Annex 4.



-7-
l zof
Component
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Total
- ---LS (000) -      …     -_ --US$ (000)…-----
Part A - Damascus
Water Supply
Source Development    2,480    4,200    6,680        620    1,050    1,670       5
Tunnel                 7,490   11,500   18,990    1,872    2,875    4,747       15
Reservoirs             5,400    5,600   11,000    1,350    1,400    2,750        9
Pumping Stations         350      440       790       88      110       198      1
Telecommunications       110      650       760       27       163      190      1
Pipelines             15,100   26,100   41,200    3,775    6,525   10,300       33
Equipment                120      800       920       30      200       230      1
Consultants            1,900    3,700    5,600       475      925    1,400       4
Land                   8,760      -      8,760    2,190       -       2,190      7
Training                 200      300       500       50       75       125;     -
Sub-Total       41,910   53,290   95>200   10,477   13,323   23,800        76
Physical Contin-
gencies               7,500    6,800   14,300    1,875    1,700    3,575       11
Price Increases        8,790        8,010    16,800    2,198    2,002    4200   13
Total
(Part A)     58,200   68,100  126,300   14,550   17,0       31,575    100
Part B - Pollution
Control Studies
Equipment                 80       80       160       20       20        40      4
Consultants              640    2,960    3,600       160      740       900     90
Training                  80      160       240       20       40        60      6
Total
(Part B)        80     30    4,000    100
TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS            59,000   71,300  130,300   1                    32,575
3.11      The consultants (SOGREAH) responsible for the source development
and tunnel have carried out a thorough sub-surface reconnaissance in complet-
ing the preliminary designs on which the cost estimates are based. In the
vicinity of the Figeh spring six rotary boreholes were drilled and analyzed
and some twenty observation wells have been sunk (including several in the
mountains overlying the aquifer). The main spring, which emerges from the
limestone like an underground river, has been explored by specially trained
divers to supplement data obtained by the drilling program. Nine test



boreholes were drilled along the tunnel axis and a geophysical reconnais-
sance was carried out along the tunnel route utilizing a total of 21 elec-
trical resistivity tests. 1/ Conventional tunnelling techniques will be used
and no major problems are anticipated. The estimates of unit prices pre-
pared by the consultants for the tunnel are comparable to actual costs of
Electricite de France for similar work.
3,.'2     Cost estimates for the reservoirs and telecommunications were pre-
pared by consultants on the basis of preliminary designs. Costs of the proj-
ect's largest component, the distribution system pipes, were developed by
EPEF and its consultants (SEURECA) and updated during appraisal; all pipes to
be laid in Damascus in the 4-1/2 year period from 1973 to mid-1977, a total
of about 530 km, were included. Preliminary designs exist for the lines to be
laid in 1973 and for the main lines required to reinforce the system, which
together account for about 35% of the pipelines in the project, but such de-
signs are not available for the remainder. Estimates for pipe replacements
are approximate, pending a thorough analysis of the system (para 3.23) and
those for extensions to new areas are based on the development plans of the
Municipality. In all cases the costs are for ductile iron pipes 2/ and are
based on recent costs for similar pipes and their installation. EPEF cur-
rently has 190 km of those pipes in stock or on order for use in the project
so that firm prices are available for a considerable part of this work.
Prior to completing specifications, consultants will assess whether use of
this type of pipe is necessary for all parts of the distribution system ex-
tensions.
3.13      Allowances for physical contingencies have been made as follows:
30% for underground work at Figeh and the tunnel, 15% for structures above
ground, 15% for equipment and consultants and 11% overall for pipe installa-
tion. The estimates are based on price levels at the start of 1973 with an
allowance for the escalation of all costs at the rate of 6% per annum. With
these allowances for physical contingencies and price increases totalling
33% of the basic costs, the estimated cost for the project is reasonable.
3.14      The cost estimates for the pollution control and sewerage studies
include contingencies and were prepared. by the appraisal mission, based
on the cost of similar studies elsewhere.
3.15      In estimating the foreign exchange component it has been assumed
that all equipment for the project would be supplied from outside Syria,
including the pipes already procured by EPEF (para 3.12). However, these
impcrted pipes, with an estimated foreign exchange cost of LS11.3 million
(US$2.8 million), were ordered prior to appraisal; and since they were not
purchased in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, they would not be
fimn.wced from the proposed credit.  All large civil works contracts, includ-
ing those for the Figeh spring works, tunnel, terminal reservoirs and installa-
tion of most distribution pipes are assumed to be won by foreign contractors
1/   Seismic tests will also be carried out prior to final design.
2/   DJcrtile iron pipes, besides having other physical advantages, provide
good resistance to corrosion in the conditions prevalent in Damascus.



- 9 -
in view of the limited capacity of the Syrian construction industry. Local
contractors will be used for pipelaying in 1973 and part of 1974 (prior to
the preparation of larger contracts by the consultants) and can be expected
to participate as subcontractors in tlhe future. Since Syria is a net importer
of cement, steel and petroleum, the cost of these materials is included in
the estimated foreign exchange component of civil works contracts.
Project Financing
3.16      A credit totalling US$15.0 million equivalent is proposed, repre-
senting that part of the estimated foreign exchange component of the project
which is eligible for disbursement. US$14.2 million equivalent would be
onlent by the Government to EPEF for the water supply component, and the
remainder, US$0.8 million equivalent, utilized by the Government for the
pollution control studies. The terms agreed during negotiations for the
re-lending are a period of 25 years, including five years' grace - the
conventional repayment period adopted for similar projects financed by Bank
loans - and interest at 6%, in line with the rate at which EPEF could borrow
from the Government-controlled banking system. This comparatively low rate
is acceptable, since any apparent undercharge to EPEF which it implies must
be offset against the considerable loss of interest which EPEF incurs through
relinquishing all its spare funds to the state. The proposed project financing
would thus be:
Water Supply   Pollution Control
Component          Studies           Total
US$ million  %  USS million    %   US$ million  x
Proposed IDA Credit              14.2      45     0.8          80      15.0     46
Government/Local Resources        17.4     55     0.2          20      17.6     54
31.6    100      1.0        100      32.6    100
Procurement
3.17      Equipment (subject to minor exceptions 1/) and civil works contracts
to be financed from the proposed credit would be awarded on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding in accordance with Bank group guidelines.
However, EPEF staff will undertake a limited amount of pipelaying and local
contractors are being engaged for this work in 1973/4 on the basis of local
competitive bidding. These expenditures, which are not expected to exceed
LS2.0 million and which would have a negligible foreign exchange component,
would not be financed under the credit.
1/   Tools and equipment costing less than US$5,000 individually and
US$50,000 in total will be exempted from international competitive
bidding.



- 10 -
3.18      There is the possibility that plastic or asbestos cement pipes
which are manufactured in Syria will be appropriate for some distribution
mains in the project (para 3.12). EPEF is exempt from customs duties and no
margin of preference has been requested by the Government for locally-produced
equipment.
Dis',ursement
3219      Disbursements would be made against:
(i)  The CIF cost of imported equipment and the ex-factory cost
(excluding taxes) of locally-produced equipment;
(ii)  The foreign exchange costs of consultants and training; and
(iii)  A percentage (55%) of all civi.l works contracts and equip-
ment exempted from international competitive bidding. This
percentage would be subject to revision by IDA in order to
disburse in total against the water supply component of the
project US$14.2 million, the estimated foreign exchange cost
of that component eligible for disbursements.
3.20      The estimated schedule of disbursements shown in Annex 5 indicates
that the credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of 4-1/2 years.
Retroactive financing is proposed for expenditures for foreign consultants
incurred after July, 1972. The amount involved is not expected to exceed
US$200,000 for the water supply component, and no such expenditures are
expected for the pollution control studies prior to the signing of the
proposed credit. On completion of the project any undisbursed amounts
should be cancelled.
Project Administration - Water Supply Component
3.21      Construction is scheduled from 1973 through mid-1977 (Annex 6).
EPEF intends to create a project unit for the construction program, either
under the Techinical Manager or responsible directly to the General Manager
(Annex 7). Senior engineers will be recruited, probably from Egypt, for this
unit (para 5.05). During negotiations assurances were obtained that the unit
will he created and staffed within six months of signature of the proposed
credit.
3_22      EPEF has engaged consultants (SOGREAH) to prepare final designs
and contract documents for the source development, tunnel, terminal reservoirs
and telecommunications. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
EPFF will also engage consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
to assist in contract administration and construction supervision for
these elements of the project, before the relevant construction contracts
are siz7r,d.



3.23      To extend the distribution system, EPEF intends to use consultants
to finalize designs, prepare contract documents and supervise construction.
This consulting assistance is also needed urgently to enable EPEF to take
remedial measures to reduce system losses by relaying badly-leaking pipes.
EPEF has recently entered into a contract to engage SEURECA up to the point
of evaluating tenders. Assurances were obtained that EPEF will engage
consultants acceptable to IDA to assist in construction supervision for the
distribution system, before the signing of the relevant construction contracts.
3.24      EPEF also intends to employ consultants, probably Syrian, to
prepare designs and contract documents and to supervise construction of
storage reservoirs in the distribution system. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that consultants acceptable to IDA will be engaged for
this work before entering into the relevant construction contracts.
3.25      EPEF has already engaged a Syrian hydraulic expert (Dr. Mazen
Azem) to make recommendations for a systematic analysis of losses. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that EPEF will submit within six months
and subsequently carry out a program acceptable to IDA to reduce unaccounted-for
water, including checking and if necessary replacing all consumers' meters.
(Defective meters 1/ are one cause of unaccounted-for water). Meter testing
equipment as well as flow and pressure metering apparatus for system analysis
are included in the operational equipment to be purchased under the project
(para 3.06).
Project Administration - Pollution Control Studies
3.26      Syria has limited expertise in river pollution control and sewer-
age and its experts are spread thinly. The Water Pollution Control Depart-
ment created in 1972 by the Ministry of Public Works has a very small staff.
However, this nucleus has prepared preliminary studies of the pollution prob-
lems in the Orontes River and has actively participated in encouraging in-
dustries there to commence waste treatment programs. Sanitary engineers in
the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs have assisted the municipalities
(including Damascus, Homs and Hama) in designing sewerage networks, the con-
struction of which was supervised by municipal engineers. The pollution
control studies in the project deal with the two most populated river basins
in Syria, and in view of the importance of these studies it is essential to
have the active participation of all available experts. Accordingly it is
proposed that the Government should create a special unit staffed by experts
from both Ministries concerned, which would work closely with the consultants
and act as their counterparts in the analysis of the problems and the
recommendation of solutions. This unit, which should maintain liaison on
1/   Although nearly all consumers are metered, EPEF reckons about 40% of
these meters are unserviceable or under-recording through wear.



- 12 -
behalf of the Government with municipalities and industries in the basins,
could eventually be responsible for implementing the appropriate solutions.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that a
special unit satisfactory to IDA will be established under the Ministry of
Municipal and Rural Affairs prior to any disbursement of the pollution control
portion of the proposed credit and that consultants acceptable to IDA will be
engaged for these studies.
Tand Acquisition and Water Rights
3.27      EPEF needs to purchase land near the Figeh spring and at reservoir
sites in Damascus. Fair market prices are paid for such land and expropria-
tion procedures are used if required. The process of acquisition has begun
and no problems are anticipated. Assurances were nevertheless obtained from
the Government during negotiations that land and access rights necessary for
the project will be substantially acquired in time to prevent delays in
project construction.
3.28      The principle that EPEF can utilize the water from the Figeh spring
to supply Damascus has been established by several Government decrees 1/.
However, EPEF is obliged to provide 100 liters/second (or about 3% of the
flow presently used for Damascus) for irrigation in Figeh village. This is
normally provided from spring flows in excess of requirements for Damascus,
but in drought periods EPI'F can pump this limited amount of water to the
village from the nearby Barada River and thus utilize 100% of the Figeh
source for Damascus.
Ecological Aspects
3.29      Since most of the construction is underground the water supply
project will have a very limited impact on the ecology of Damascus. Some
of the tunnel spoil is expected to be used to improve the landscape by back-
filling quarries at the cement factory near Doumar in the Barada valley,
and some will be deposited at landfill sites designated by Damascus Muni-
cipality.
3.30      The provision of increased supplies of water will in itself improve
city and home cleanliness and the standard of living. At the same time it
will create increased quantities of wastewater. The pollution control studies
included in the project will produce master plans and preliminary designs
for sewerage in Damascus and for treatment plants along the Orontes River,
necessary first steps to cleaning up two of Syria's most important rivers.
tJ   rec'ee No. 475 by the Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
Presidential Decrees Nos. 124 and 266 of 1958.



- 13 -
IV. JUSTIFICATION
Water Supply Component
4.01      Damascus has already begun to experience water shortages in the
peak summer months. The immediate constraint is the restricted capacity
of the 41-year-old aqueduct from the Figeh spring. The project will elim-
inate this constraint through the construction of a new tunnel. It also
includes development of the spring source and improvements and extensions
in the distribution system in accordance with the urban master plan (para
3.02). As an interim measure the project includes the reduction of losses
in the distribution system to ensure more efficient use of the available
water.
4.02      Consumption of Damascus and adjoining localities in EPEF's supply
area averages about 110,000 m3/day (1972) for a population of just over one
million. The average consumption of 110 liters per capita per day (lcd) is
not high. Population is forecast to increase at approximately 4% annually
(compared with about 5% in recent years) and per capita demand of metered
consumers at 2% a year, giving a total demand increase of about 6% a year
until 1985. Thereafter total demand is projected to increase at 5% annually.
Average daily demand is expected to reach about 123 lcd by 1977; since the
proposed expansion of production facilities cannot be completed before that
year, the growing demand in this interim period can only be alleviated by
reducing unaccounted-for water. Nevertheless shortages are expected to
persist, particularly in periods of peak demand, until the tunnel is com-
pleted in 1977. The measures envisaged in EPEF's program are expected to
reduce system losses from over 50% of production in 1972 to 42% in 1977
and further improvements in operating efficiency are conservatively esti-
mated to effect a continuing reduction to below 30% in the late 1980's.
This loss reduction is illustrated in Annex 2 and graphically in Annex S.
It is of course possible that EPEF can reduce losses to a greater extent than
forecast, but it would be unsafe to rely on this as permitting the project to
be deferred, or as producing a corresponding increase in revenues.
4.03      Project components have been selected after extensive planning
by EPEF and its consultants. A dam on the Barada River, upstream of
Damascus, or increased utilization of the Figeh source with a new tunnel
or pipeline to Damascus are the only practicable alternatives for increas-
ing the supply of water to Damascus. AsE indicated in Annex 9, further de-
velopment of the Figeh spring and transmission of the water to Damascus
by a new tunnel is clearly the least cost solution. The program for expand-
ing the distribution network follows acceptable design criteria, is based
on realistic assumptions concerning growth in Damascus and will be modified
as appropriate during final design to take account of any changes in the
development pattern.
4.04      Syria has no option but to proceed with this large investment if
it wishes to avoid serious water shortages and consequential health hazards.
Incremental revenues from water sales provide a minimum measure of the benefits
generated by the project and by other related investments necessary to permit



- 14 -
full utilization of the project works.  Using a retail price of LSO.30/m3
(US$0.28/1000 gals), the rate of return would be almost 12% (Annex 9); this
price, though higher than the existing extremely low rate, is still very
moderate and would not be likely to affect significantly the volume of water
sold. Even at the price which was in force as long ago as 1949 (LSO.25/m3),
the rate of return would be 10.1%. A price of LSO.30/m3 would therefore
tend to yield a rate of return on the project broadly equivalent to the
2robable opportunity cost of capital -- i.e., a rough approximation to
marginal cost pricing is envisaged.
Pollution Control Studies
4.05      An increased flow of water portends an increased flow of sewage;
the benefits of the former bring in their train the problems of the latter.
Sewage discharge in Damascus and upstream villages already pollutes the
Barada River, whose branches in fact take the place of master sewers for
the city and spread the pollution through the surrounding farmland. Though
health statistics are deficient, a recent study 1/ of Syria remarks that "in
the countryside, gastrointestinal diseases related to polluted water resources
are the most prevalent causes of debility and morbidity". The studies proposed
to be financed in the project are a necessary prerequisite to the abatement
of this health hazard and related environmental nuisances both at Damascus
and in the Orontes valley. Although it is not possible to quantify the bene-
fits of improved health and a reduction in morbidity rates, insofar as they
affect the working population, they are manifestly real and probably a sub-
stantial factor in the economic growth of Syria.
V. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
5.01      The recipient of the proposed credit would be the Government of
Syria, which would relend the water supply portion to EPEF. The portion al-
located to the pollution control studies would be utilized by the Government
itself, through the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (para 3.26).
EPEF - Organization and Management
5.02      EPEF was created by the Government, under a 1958 decree, to repla.e
the previous communal syndicate by an "Etablissement public" (state enter-
prise). Although not a government department, EPEF is subject to the "tutelle"
(operational supervision) of the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs; and
this and other Ministries exercise wide powers of control in such matters as
tariffs, personnel, budgets, accounts, and major contracts. Moreover, EPEF
in common with other state agencies is obliged to hand over its surplus cash
annually for tne Government's national development program (para 6.01).  Re-
cently, hswever, the Government has begun a move towards decentralized admin-
istration, so that some powers now exercised by Ministries in relation to
EPEF maay pass to the Damascus Municipal Council. This is not expected to
1/   Handbook for Syria, Foreign Area Studies, American University (1971).



- 15 -
produce much change in practice, since the municipality is already influen-
tial in EPEF's management (see below).
5.03      EPEF is managed by a Board of seven Directors, headed by the Mayor
of Damascus and comprising the technical director of the Municipality, repre-
sentatives of three Ministries (Finance, Public Works, Municipal and Rural
Affairs), a workers' representative, and the General Manager of EPEF. The
Board is active, meeting twice a month.
5.04      Annex 7 shows EPEF's present organization; while this reflects
the advice of various consultants in the past, EPEF recognizes that it con-
tains anomalies and is constantly reviewing it. The top management is effi-
cient and hard-working but bogged down by routine paperwork. (For example,
every expenditure voucher has to be signed by the General Manager, the Tech-
nicaL Manager and the Financial Manager. Besides being time-consuming, this
suggests a degree of control which could be quite illusory.) Assurances
were therefore obtained that EPEF will commission a study of its organization
and operating procedures, submit the findings to IDA, and thereafter promptly
implement such recommendations as shall have been mutually agreed.
5.05      The authorized number of employees has not been increased since
1961, hence EPEF's staff has not grown proportionately to its tasks. The
present staff numbers about 600 (all Syrian except one) and the management
estimates that it needs about 100 more. The shortage of subordinate staff
further contributes to the administrative workload of the senior officers,
leaving insufficient time for their true function of management. Salaries
are low, but employees can increase their incomes by a second job after
normal hours; this practice is tolerated because it reduces the possibility
of corruption. Low salaries hinder recruitment, though turnover is low
(about 5%) and there are limited possibilities for recruiting technical
staff on a special contract basis. EPEF is hoping to recruit some Egyptian
engineers in this manner (para 3.21) and has also submitted a request for
its authorized workforce to be substantially increased. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Government will permit EPEF to be adequately
staffed at all times with experienced and qualified personnel. EPEF is anxious
to improve staff training and has submitted an outline training program to
IDA. During negotiations, this was reviewed and assurances obtained that a
detailed program would be submitted before December 31, 1973, and initiated
within six months thereafter.
Accounting and Audit
5.06      EPEF's accounting staff is competent and the accounting system
adequate, though in need of tidying up and modernizing. Detailed financial
statements, in Arabic, are published annually. Though budgetary control is
effective, the accounting system could provide management with more informa-
tion than it now does. Assurances were obtained that the management assistance
referred to in paragraph 5.04 will cover improvements to the accounting system
to enable it to function better as a management tool. EPEF was considering
renting a computer but the Government is installing one in the adjacent Post
Office and EPEF is wisely waiting to see whether time-sharing arrangements
will be feasible.



- 16 -
5.07      Billing and collection are slow but effective, and bad debts are
few. Bills are prepared by machine and distributed by door-to-door col-
lectors who receive piecework bonuses. Non-payers have their supply cut
off and arrears of absconding consumers are recovered from the next occu-
pant. EPEF was considering the separation of billing and collection from
the Finance Department; it is recommended that this should not be done and
that instead the Financial Manager should have a deputy to handle revenue
collection and customer relations. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained to this effect.
5.08      Insurance cover exists only for vehicles and workmen's compensa-
tion; assurances were therefore obtained during negotiations that EPEF will
examine its insurance needs and make recommendations to IDA for review within
twelve months of signature of the proposed credit.
5.09      EPEF has no internal audit, except for special investigations
occasionally carried out by its statistics section or by ad hoc committees.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that a Control and Audit Section
will be established for internal audit and efficiency checks.
5.10      External audit is performed by the Ministry of Finance, in addi-
tion to general investigative powers exercised by a bureau of the Prime
Minister's Office.  Though EPEF's auditors perform detailed checks, govern-
ment audit is generally o-iented towards compliance with procedural regula-
tions rather than sound financial management and any reports produced tend
to be limited in scope. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
EPEF will have its accounts certified by an independent auditor satisfactory
to IDA. Syria has competent commercial audit firms, one of which audited
EPEF's accounts up to 1969.
VI. FINANCES AND TARIFFS
EPEF Finances - Present Position
6.01      EPEF's financial performance has been sound and unexceptionable,
assisted by minimal production costs and a comprehensive tariff structure.
Annexes 10 to 12 show EPEF's Income and Cash Flow Statements 1969-71 and
balance sheets 1968-71. The income statements show that revenues exceeded
expenses by a margin of between 20% and 30% in each of the three years.
In addition, EPEF collects substantial capital receipts from its customers,
through sale of water rights (para 6.06) and otherwise. It is exempt from
income and turnover taxes, but is required - like all public enterprises
under Syria's socialisL economy - to hand over annually to the Government,
for the national development budget, the greater part of its "cash inflow"
(profit ard consumer contributions plus depreciation) insofar as they are not
required for approved investment. To date, these contributions (which EPEF



- 17 -
regards as an interest-free loan to the state) total some LS25 million
(US$6.2 million) 1/. Although an integral part of Syria's economy, this
system has certain disadvantages, in that it may encourage stockpiling to
conserve surpluses, or deprive individual enterprises of necessary resources;
and assurances which were obtained to ensure that EPEF's essential financial
needs are met at all times are referred to in paragraph 6.16.
6.02      The balance sheets indicate thai: EPEF's fixed assets have been
financed entirely out of earnings or from sale of water rights and other
consumer contributions; there is no loan debt and no investment by the
central Government. Fixed assets are recorded at historical values. Since
about a quarter of the existing value has been added in the last four years
and since the older assets are of uncertain age and have been depreciated
at high rates (3-3.5% average) it is not felt necessary to require revalua-
tion; this would have little impact compared with the very large expenditures
of the coming five years.
6.03      EPEF has excessive inventories, equivalent to about two years'
operating expenses. While this stockpiling appears to have been partly
dictated by the fear of import rationing, much of the accumulation is
large-diameter pipe purchased in advance for the project. The present
financing plan assumes a substantial stock rundown (para 6.15).
6.04      Receivables for water charges represent about seven months' rev-
enues, due to billing time lags rather than delinquency (bad debts are al-
most non-existent). Government departments pay regularly. Creditors' ac-
counts are mostly consumers' deposits; trade liabilities are small.
6.05      The transfers to Government mentioned above are calculated to
leave EPEF with only limited cash balances, which in fact fell nearly to
zero in 1969. Since then, however, its cash position has improved and is
adequate for day-to-day needs.
Tariffs
6.06      Water tariffs in Syria (Annex 13) are regulated by a national law
enacted in 1966, which appears to have been based on the tariff structure
long practised in Damascus. One component of the tariff is unusual, in that
applicants for a supply to premises larger than 100 m2 have to purchase in
advance the right to a fixed allowance of water in perpetuity. The allowance
to be purchased depends on the size of the premises; the average is 1/2 m3/day
which at present costs LS1,000 (US$250). Consumption in excess of the pur-
chased allowance is charged at the normal metered rate. This system of water
rights - generating over LS2 million a year in advance investment finance
for EPEF -- evolved from the communal syndicate whose members subscribed for
shares in a limited supply of water, but is thought to have its roots in the
age-old system of water rights for irrigation-fed agriculture.
1/   EPEF has also made a similar transfer of about LS1 million to Damascus
Municipality.



- 18 -
6.07      Any system requiring purchase of a specific quantity of water,
whether by the Syrian system of water rights or by the more common minimum-
charge arrangement, might be criticized as discouraging water conservation.
In this case, however, the average water right is for only 15 m3 per month,
and since each connection serves on average 5-6 persons, the allowance would
thus represent about 80 liters (25 gals) per head daily -- little more than
normal sanitary and cooking needs.
u.08      Besides the cost of the water right, new consumers have to pay a
capital contribution to the cost of the mains. In addition, all owners of
water rights pay an annual fee representing the amount by which the value
of the "free" water, at current metered rate, exceeds the annual value of
the water right (calculated by applying 3% notional interest to the purchase
price).
6.09      The rate for metered consumption (or, in the case of water right
holders, excess consumption) is LSO.20/m3 (US$0.19/1,000 gals) for all con-
sumers. This rate is very low because Damascus's high-quality water requires
no treatment and little pumping; the rate has been unchanged since 1949, when
it was reduced.  Only religious buildings and the 325 public standpipes re-
ceive completely free supplies; EPEF tries, by limiting the flow, to prevent
misuse and waste of these supplies.
6.10      EPEF's current rate of return on net fixed assets is small (4% in
1971), but if allowance is made for the sales of water rights, which are op-
erating revenues collected in advance, the current return would be more than
doubled.
6.11      The large investments called for in the next few years will consid-
erably increase EPEF's operating expenses, notably in annual depreciation;
this will triple in ten years, and rise from just over a quarter of the cur-
rent expenses in 1972 to about 40% by 1977. The effect is that, if tariffs
remain unchanged, operating expenses would overtake annual revenues by 1976.
A rate increase from LSO.20/m3 to LSO.30/m3 by two installments (with conse-
quential increases in the annual fee for water rights holders - see para
6.08) would reverse this trend and produce positive but low financial rates
of return of about 2%-3%, rising slowly to about 5.1/2% in 1982 (excluding rev-
enue from sale of water rights).
6.12      Low rates of return would not be surprising with indivisible "lumpy"
investments like the tunnel, which will not be fully utilized until nearly the
end of the century. Nevertheless, EPEF's cash position would be satisfactory,
with a cash flow available for investment of at least LS6 million annually,
rising to L512 million by 1982.  The satisfactory cash generation is attribut-
able partly to tile large element of depreciation in expenses, but also to the
substantial receipts expected from sale of water rights (para 6.06) over and
above ordni-ary annual revenues.



- 19 -
6.13      Since these water right sales (though technically capital receipts)
are in effect advance collections of operating revenues, it would be mislead-
ing to ignore them completely in expressing EPEF's financial rate of return.
There are different ways in which they could be taken into account; one way
would be to assume a notional rate of interest earned by the accumulated sale
proceeds (or of interest saved, by not having to borrow the capital they
provide). This would be conceptually satisfactory, but presents difficulties
in practice if the rate of return is to be used for monitoring financial per-
formance and, above all, cash generation. The best alternative is to include
each year's actual cash receipts as if they were operating revenues, which
would have the effect of adding about 2% to EPEF's financial rate of return
after project completion. Such a method produces approximately the same
result as allowing 6% notional interest on the recorded accumulation of
water right sales, but has the added advantage that it links rate of return
to actual cash generation, and also gives EPEF greater flexibility in adjust-
ing tariffs to produce a given rate of return.
6.14      Accordingly, for the reason indicated in para 6.11, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that EPEF will modify its tariffs as
necessary, in order to:
(i)  Ensure that ordinary annual revenues (i.e. excluding
sales of water rights) cover operating expenses
(including depreciation and interest) at all times;
(ii)  Produce a rate of return gradually rising during the
years after project completion to reach 7-1/2% in
1982 and thereafter; for purposes of this calculation
water right sales would count as revenues, as
indicated in paragraph 6.13.
The forecast assumes that a rate increase from LSO.20/m3 to LSO 27/m3 will
be introduced in 1975, and a further increase to LSO.30/m3 in 1982. The
first increase would produce a rate of return of at least 4% up to 1979, about
5% in 1980 and 5-1/2% in 1981; the second increase would take the rate of
return to 7-1/2% and over. The increased charges represent the average tariff
needed; in practice, EPEF is likely to restructure the tariff to provide a
pattern of different rates, charging more per m3 as consumption increases.
The price of water rights is assumed in projections to remain unchanged, though
in practice EPEF could amend this also as part of the tariff revision.
EPEF Financing Plan and Future Finances
6.15      Projections of income statements, cash flow and balance sheets up
to 1982 appear in Annexes 10 to 12. Annex 14 lists the detailed assumptions
used in the projections. Besides the tariff assumptions mentioned above,
these include the following:
(a) A 7% annual growth in the number of staff is forecast until
1976, to meet staffing shortages.



- 20 -
(b) Existing stocks of materials are expected to be used for the
project to the value of LS8 million, plus a further LS4 mil-
lion worth of goods which were on order at December 31, 1972.
(c)  Inflation of about 3% a year is assumed for operating expenses.
6.16      These projections indicate that EPEF's finances will continue to
be sound, with an operating ratio (i.e., operating costs, including depre-
ciation, as a proportion of revenues) falling from 88% in 1974 to 63% in
1982. Internal cash generation plus water right sales and other consumer
contributions, presently running at LS5-6 million annually, would gradually
rise to LS17 million in 1982. From 1978 onwards about a third of this is fore-
cast to be available for contribution to the Government's central investment
pool (see para 6.01). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that EPEF
will at all times be allowed to retain funds needed for essential maintenance
and investment and for working capital.
6.17      Thus, EPEF would resume, in the late 1970s, its present practice
of transferring cash surpluses to Government. In the intervening period,
during construction of the project, a flow in the reverse direction would
be necessary. During the first four years 1973-76, LS39.7 million would
be needed from the Government for project financing; but in the final con-
struction year, as capital expenditures taper off, LS7.8 million would be
refunded by EPEF, making a net Government contribution of LS31.9 million dur-
ing the project construction period. Toward this sum, EPEF has already pro-
vided nearly LS25 million, interest free, by its accumulated contributions
to the central pool. On these assumptions, EPEF's financing plan would be
as follows:
EPEF
FINANCING PLAN 1973-77
LS million  US$ million   %
Capital Requirements
Project                                         126.3         31.6      91
Other Capital Works                              12.6          3.1       9
Total Requirements                        138.9         34.7      100
Capital Sources
Internal Sources:
Net Cash Generation               28.3
Less:  Debt Service                5.4
22.9
Water Right Sales                 12.0
Consumer Contributions             2.7         37.6         9.4       27
Proposed Credit                                  56.8         14.2      41
Transfers from Government                        31.9          8.0      23
Reduction in working capital:
Inventory                          8.1
Cash                               1.5
Other                              3.0         12.6         3.1        9
Total Sources                             138.9         34.7      100



- 21 -
6.18      Total requirements are thus expected to be financed 41% from bor-
rowing, 23% from the Government, and the balance from EPEF's own revenues
and resources. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
will make available any funds needed to complete the EPEF project (including
any cost over-runs), on the same interest-free basis on which EPEF funds have
hitherto been made available to the Government.
6.19      The Government's contribution to EPEF (LS31.9 million) would be
partly offset by about LS5 million received from EPEF during project construc-
tion as interest on the re-lending of the proppsed credit, so that the net
cash requirement would be little more than the amount EPEF has already trans-
ferred to the central development pool (para 6.17). In addition, the resumed
transfers by EPEF after project completion would, within six years or so,
exceed the Government's investment in the project.
6.20      EPEF should not need to incur any further long-term debt, and its
debt/equity ratio is projected to remain small, not exceeding 35:65 during
the years covered by the forecast. Nevertheless, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that no debt would be incurred without IDA's agreement
unless net revenues at the time of incurrence, before depreciation and interest,
are at least 1.5 times the annual debt service on the proposed loan and exist-
ing debt.
Pollution Control Studies
6.21      Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment will provide any funds, in addition to the proposed IDA financing (para
3.16), necessary to complete the pollution control studies.
VIII.  RECOMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      The establishment of a special unit for direction of the water
pollution control and sewerage studies will be a condition for disbursement
of any of that portion of the proposed credit related to these studies (3.26).
7.02      Appropriate assurances having been obtained on the other matters
referred to in Chapters III, V and VI, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$15 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4 pages
SYRIA
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Facilities of EPEF
Background
1.        For many centuries Damascus has obtained its water supply
from the Barada River. The Figeh spring is the principal source of
this river, which creates the Al-Ghutta oasis on which Damascus was
founded at the eastern edge of the Anti-Lebanon Mountains. The
Figeh spring is about 13 km northwest of Damascus, or slightly
further via the valley of the Barada River (Map 2).
2.        Early civilizations probably used the river in its natural
condition and shallow wells as sources of water for the city. During
the Roman period a fonnal bath and temple were constructed at Figeh
and water was conducted to Damascus by an aqueduct.
3.         In 1908 a cast-iron pipeline (diameter 250 mm) was
laid from Figeh along the Barada valley and terminated at the old
city in central Damascus. By that time the river was becoming
increasingly polluted as were the shallow wells in the growing city.
More clean water was required, so in 1922 a group of citizens organized
a committee to arrange for construction of a new aqueduct from Figeh to
Damascus. Construction started in late 1925 and by 1932 the new
aqueduct was completed. This aqueduct terminates at hillside reservoirs
on the west side of Damascus, from which the modern water distribution
system originates. The cast-iron pipeline of 1908 is now used to serve
villages in the Barada valley.
4.        The basic elements of the EPEF system are shown on Map 2
and discussed below.
Source
5.        The Figeh spring is a remarkable resource.  Within a few
meters of the Barada River valley the spring pours out large quanti-
ties of excellent water. The principal emergence of the spring, which
has been enclosed in a structure since Roman times, resembles an under-
ground river several meters across which flows up and out of the lime-
stone formation of the mountain. In addition to this main channel,
water leaves the aquifer at several nearby locations. A portion of
this water from the minor springs is collected and pumped from two
locations to the aqueduct. Excess water flows directly to the
Barada River.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
o.        Records of the spring flows since 1941 have been analyz3d
by the consultants (SOGREAH). The total flow has av raged 8.63 m /
second (745,000 m /day) but the flow was below 3.0 m /second for a
total of some 360 days in the drought years 1959-61. The lowest
recorded daily flow was 2.4 m3/second.
7.        The water quality is very good.  Its temperature and pH are
relatively constant (near 140C and 7.9 respectively), its taste and
color are excellent, and bacteriological contamination at the source
is practically non-existent.
8.        Little is known about the recharge of the aquifer, which
lies in the mountains and Zebedani Plain to the west.  The consultants
estimate the recharge area to cover from 700 to 800 km2.
9.        Although almost all of Damascus is supplied by the Figeh
source, EPEF temporarily operates two wells in the Jobar region north-
east of Damascus. When the EPEF distribution system in the area is
reinforced these wells, in a system which was formerly independent
from 3PEF, will be abandoned because the water is of relatively poor
quality.
Figeh - Damascus Aqueduct
10.       The 16.2-kmi long aqueduct commences at an elevation of 821 m
at Figeh ana terminates at the Wali Reservoir where the free water level
is 20 n lower. The basic section of the tunnel, which is not pressurized,
is horseshoe-shaped with a maximum height of 1.9 m and a width of 1.3 m,
When flowing gt the normal maximum depth of 1.4 m, the cross sectional
area is 1.8 m<. West of the reservoirs the aqueduct crosses a valley
in a syphon section.
11.       As a result of repairs made to the tunnel sinje 1969, the
capacity has been increased to 3.0 m /second (260,000 m /day). However,
more repair work remains to be done to eliminate leakage and reduce
roughness inside the tunnel which retards flow. These repairs have to
be done with the tunnel empty, but until a secona tunnel is built the
existing one cannot be taken out of service for long enough to complete
the necessary repairs.
Distribution System
L2.       The distribution system of EPEF is relatively simple.  Consumers
in the villages along the Barada Valley (Figeh, Bassime, Achrafie, Jediede,
EJdsaya, El Hamne and Doumar) are supplied from the original cast iron pipe-
line trom Figeh to Damascus or from connections to the Figeh - Damascus
aqueduct. The Damascus distribution system originates at the Wali
reservoirs, terminus of the aqueduct.  Some 80% of the consumers are
supplied by gravity but residents on the western edge of the urban area,
from Berze in the north to Mezze in the south, are in high-level zones,
whr-h require pumping. A ring main, 600 mm in diameter, is the principal



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
feature in the low level distribution system.  This line is connected
to the Wali reservoir (7,000 m3 at 8   m elevation) and the largest
system reservoir at Charki (28,000 m  at 749 m elevation).  It supplies
five elevated storage tanks on the e4stern edge of Damascus which
balance system pressures in peak periods.
13.       Most consumers have individual connections but public taps
are installed throughout the city. Statistics relating to the distri-
bution system at the end of 1971 are as follows:
Connections
Private (metered)              -       121,600
Public (metered)               -         1,700
Mosques (unmetered)            -           325
Public Taps (unmetered)        -           325
Distribution Pipes
------- ------------ Length of Pipes (kmn)-
Diameter                                Villages along
(mm 1>!18_Damascus                   Barada River              Total
6oo                 22.0                    -                   22.0
5°0                 16.5                    _                   16.5
400                11.7                     -                   11.7
300                 1.0                     -                    1.0
250                 8o.4                   4.2                  84.6
200                 40.0                   0.1                  40.1
1o                  38.5                   3.8                  42.3
125                  7.8                                         7.8
100                103.4                   3.2                 106.6
80                 72.2                   3.9                  76.1
50 and smaller       370.6                   8.0                 378.6
Total        764.1                  23.2                  787.3
The majority of pipes 100 mm and larger are made of cast iron. Smaller
pipes are generally of galvanized steel.
Reservoirs
Effective
Location                Tye                   Number         Capacity
(Cubic Meters)
Barada Valley          Ground Level                 2                 750
Damascus               Ground Level                8              40,690
Damascus               Elevated                    5               2,000
Total                                        15              43,440



ANN   1
Page   of 4 pages
Pumping Stations
Total
Installed
Location                  Number       Horsepower         Type of Power
Barada Va,ley                  2                457          Diesel and electric
DamascusT/                     9             1,675           Diesel and electric
] Including temporary pumping station at Jobar where 20 Hp
is installed to utilize groundwater source.



SYRLA
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPUIATION &WATER RESOURCES UTILIZATI0N
EST. POPULATION SERVED               NO. OF CONNECTIONS                                  WATE USE  V                                                PEAT WAY               PRODUCTION
Losses       Total        Pro-                       Peak
Greater   En                        Mosques,         No. with                Paying    Mosques,   Total                            % of         Consupp       duc-      Production      Day   4 a  TOTAL
YEAR    Damascusl/ Routeg  Total    Paying Btandpip@a Total Water Rights              Customers  Standpipes Ctonsaup-  Losses  Production   Production   tion  Losses  tion   Av. Day  Peak Day Av. Day   ANNUALT/
toe                                                                   00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONSUINPTICN
(1)       (2)       (3)    (4)        (5)      (6)      (7)       (8)          (9)      (10)      (11)       (12)      (13)      (14)        (15)        (16)   (17)  (18)    (19)      (20)      (21)       (22)
------    sand--------      -------------ThousThousandaz----------------    -----  _____-------housand 3/da-------------------              ,, o3/day  ---- M3/sec  -                            Miltono
1960        557  n.a.    n.a.        50.3    n.a.       n.a.    31.4                                                                           %
1965        719     11      730       91.9     0.7      92.6    55.4                   60.5       12.0       72.5      n.a.      n.a.        n.a.                                                           22.1
1966        746     12      758       98d2     0.7      98.9    57.0                   67.9       12.0       79.9      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.                                                          24.8
1967        764     12      776      103.5     o.6    104.1    58.4                    68.7!      12.0       80.7      94.3    175.0            54                                                          25.1
1968        805    13       818      108.0     o.6    1o8.6    59.7                    75.3       12.0       87.3      96.7    184.0            53                                                          27.5
1969        857     13      870      111.9     o.6    112.5    61.2                    83-3       11.8       95.1    101.9    197.0             52                                                          30.4
1970        900    14       914      116.6     o.6    117.2    63.o                     90.7      10.9      1ol.6      98.2    199.8            43       108     104   212    2.31        2.45   1.o6       J:1
1971        954    14       968      123.3     0.7    124.0    65.1                     96.1        9.0     105.1    104.6    209.7             50       115     115   230    2.43        2.66   1.09       35.1
1972        992    15   1,007        130.1      0.7    130.8    67.5           (106)    105          8        111       115       226           51       122     126   248    2.62        2.87   1.10       37.6
1973      1,031     15   1,046       136.3      0.7    137.0    69.7           (114)    109          8        117       113       230           49       133     127   260    2.66        3.00   1.13       39.8
1974      1,073     16   1,089       142.8     0.7    143.5    72.0            (122)    117          8        125       110       235           47       138     122   260    2.72        3.00   1.10       42.7
1975      1,116     16   1,132       149.5     o.6    150.1    74.4            (130)    124          8        132       108       240           45       143     117   260    2.78        3.00   1.08       45.3
1976      1,160     17   1,177       156.5     o.6    157.1    76.9            (138)    132          8        140       105       245           43       148     112   260    2.84        3.oo   1.06       48.2
1977      1,207     17   1,224       163.8     o.6    164.4    79.5            (146)    142          8        150       110       260           42       166     121   286    3.01        3.31   1.10       51.8
1978      1,255     18   1,273       171.4     o.6    172.0    82.2                      155         8        163       113       276           41       187     130    317    3.19       3.67   1.15       56.6
1979      1,305     19   1,324       179.3     o.6    179.9    85.0                      164         8        172       110       282           39       206     132   338    3.26        3-91   1.20       59.9
1980      1,357     19   1,376       187.5     o.6    188.1    87.9                      174         8         182      107       289           37       219     128    347    3.34       4.02   1.20        63.5
1981      1,412     20   1,432       196.0     o.6    196.6    90.9                      185         8         193      io6       293           36       234     125    359    3.46       4.15   1.20        67.5
1982      1,468     20    1,488      204.9      o.6    205.5    94.0                     196          8        204      105       309           34       245     126   371    3.58         4.30   1.20       71.5
J/ Including Yarmouk refugee camqp
g/ Population  erved from transmission line Figeh-Damxacus
/  Figures in brackets 1972-77 represent estimated full demand of payiozg  ua'-re if no shortages existed (Col.9)
/ Normlly "peak dand factor" - 1.20.  Years to 1978 wifh factors bel  I.-'  r.flect peak day shortages - system cannot supply more than the amount shown
J  Excludes non-paying comaumers (mosques, standpipes) = Col.10x 365






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7 pages
SYRIA
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Description
1.        EPEF is embarking on a major construction program to provide
additional supplies of water to Damascus. The groundwater source which
supplies the city is to be further developed, a new tunnel is to be built
to deliver the water to the city and substantial improvements are
planned in the distribution system. Each element is discussed
separately below.
Figeh Spring Development
2.        The Figeh spring is in the Anti-Lebanon Mountains about 15 km
northeast of Damascus (See Map 2). The main spring emerges from lime-
stone as an underground river and this major discharge flows directly
to the aqueduct. Minor springs also emerge in the alluvium nearby.
Some of the water from these minor springs is collected by two pumping
stations near the aqueduct origin but some escapes through the alluvium
to the Barada River valley, which is less than 150 m from the main
Figeh spring. A cutoff wall will be constructed across the alluvium
into the impervious rock beneath, slightly upstream of the Barada
valley, thus preventing the loss of Figeh water to the river. This
cutoff wall will be approximately 250 m long and a maximum of 25 m deep.
It can be constructed by casting or driving piles underground or by
grouting: the construction method will be decided on the basis of bids
for the three alternatives.
3.        To safeguard the quality of the groundwater at Figeh it is
necessary to divert all surface water away from the area where the
spring water is collected. The collecting area which requires this
protection will be increased when the cutoff wall is constructed.
Planned surface structures include drains and sewers around the peri-
meter of the spring site, a spillway to lead a local torrent over the
collecting area and a large channel to divert excess spring flows from
Figeh to the Barada River. This work will involve relocating maintenance
and pumping structures presently built near the source as well as
removing several residential and commercial buildings on the right bank
of the Figeh overflow channel, upstream of the cutoff wall.
4.        The reliable yield of the spring at present is simply the
lowest natural flow, which has been as low as 2.4 m3/second (210,000 m3/
day) in the past (Annex 1). Since the long-term average flow is more
than 350% higher than this low flow, it is probable that the reliable
yield can be increased by using the presumed storage capacity in the
aquifer. To determine the storage characteristics of the aquifer
would normally involve a program of exploratory drilling, but the
limestone mountains overlying the critical portion of the aquifer



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7 pages
would cause the necessary drilling program to be prohibitively expensive.
The alternative way to determine the aquifer storage potential, and
hence determine how much the spring yield can be increased, is to
conduct a program of test pumping from the aquifer. By pumping at
rates in excess of the natural spring flow it is possible to withdraw
water from storage in the aquifer. This would lower the water level
below the present level at which the springs emerge. The aquifer
storage characteristics can be deduced by estimating the natural spring
flows (for example, by correlation with other springs in the area),
measuring the pumped flows and monitoring the water level in the
aquifer. Such test pumping requires careful planning and assessment
so that the water supply necessary for Damascus can be assured through-
out the test period.
5.        The test pumping must take place at rates larger than the
natural spring flows. This requires the installation of large capacity
pumps capable of pumping approximately 6.0 m3/second, from the lowest
level to which the aquifer can be expected to drop. Test wells for
these pumps will be drilled in the vicinity of the springs after the
cutoff wall is completed.  Diesel engines will be used to drive the
pumps during the test period.  Depending on prevailing hydrologic
conditions, the tests should be conducted at several rates and are
tentatively planned to last for three years. During the test pumping,
which is expected to continue beyond the project period, the water
excess to the needs o- Damascus would be released to the Barada River.
After the storage characteristics of the aquifer are better unaer-
stood, the pumps used for testing will be permanently installed,
probably with electric motors as their power source.
Tunnel from Figeh to Damascus
6.        The route of the tunnel is shown on Map 2.  It will commence
at the Figeh source just upstream of the cutoff wall and will terminate
at reservoirs at the Wali site on the edge of the mountains at the
northwest side of Damascus.
7.        The alignment is the most direct possible: a straight line
between Figeh and Wali is prohibited by local topography. Data
concerning the tunnel are as follows:
Length:           15.0 km
Capacity:         5.2 m3/second
Section:          Horseshoe, flat base.
Excavated area - 5.7 m2
Height = 2.h0 m, maximum width = 2.50 m
0D,       ff'2  tunnel section is the minimum practical section which can
be driia-'. ever this length using conventional techniques.  The tunnel
wil l-f;avated from five attack faces:  one from the Wali end and



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7 pages
two each from access portals at 2.5 km and 9.4 km from the Figeh end.
Because of the work on source development under way on the relatively
small site at Figeh, the tunnel will not be excavated from that face.
The consultants estimate that the tunnel excavation will progress at
the rate of 7 meters per day on each attack face and that the total task
of tunnel construction will require 32 months. These are reasonable but
not excessive rates of progress.
9.        Water in the tunnel will not be flowing under pressure.
The tunnel bottom will be lined with 25 cm of concrete. In sound rock,,
estimated throughout 60% of the tu:nel length, a gunite lining averaging
5 cm thickness will be applied. in weaker rock sections a concrete
lining averaging 25 cm thickness will be used.
10.       Sluicegates will be installed at the upstream and downstream
ends of the tunnel. To avoid surcharging the tunnel during closure of
the downstream gate, which would require more expensive lining, an
overflow arrangement is planned to spill excess flows to the Barada
River via special drains.
Reservoirs
11.       As the EPEF distribution system grows the principal storage
will continue to be located at high level on the western edge of
Damascus. The project includes major storage reservoirs near the
tunnel terminus which will serve to balance pumping from the Figeh
source with system demand and to provide a reasonable reserve in the
event of problems at the source or in the tunnel. Snaller reservoirs
will be built throughout the distribution system to maintain pressures
during periods of peak demand. Features of the reservoirs included in
the project are as follows:
Identification            Location                    Capacity (m3)
Tunnel Terminus
I                   Wali                            30,000
II West              Near Wali                       20:000
Sub Total                                        50,000
Distribution System
I East              West of Berze                    8,000
K 3                 Kassioun                           500
B 1                 Berze                            5,000
K 4                 Kassioun West                      500
K 5                 Kassioun West                      800
K 6                 Kassioun West                      500
M 1                 Mezze                            8,000
M 2                 Mezze               15O
Sub Total                                        24,800
TOTAI                                                      74,800



ANNEK 3
Page 4 of 7 pages
12.       The design of reservoirs at Wali and II West will allow for
future expansion to double the initial capacity. Preliminary designs
call for these reservoirs to be built of prestressed concrete but at
Wali the possibility of building the reservoir underground near the
tunnel exit is being investigated by the consultants.
13.       By 1977, when the new reservoirs should be caopleted, the
storage in the EPEF system will total about 122,000 m3, which would
represent slightly less than 12 hours' storage of the average daily
production projected for that year.
Pumping Stations
14.       A new pumping station will be constructed to serve the three
pressure zones in the new distribution system of Kassioun West. The
three sets of pumps in this station will be supplied directly from the
existing aqueduct from Figeh.
15.       The eight permanent pumping stations presently in service
throughout the system will be renovated. At each station the pumps and
motors will be overhauled and replaced if necessary. New switchboards
and control panels will be installed at each station to permit the pumps
to be controlled remotely by telecommunication signals from the distri-
bution reservoirs.
Telecommunication Systems
1b.       Portable radio equipment will be purchased to facilitate the
leak reduction program to be undertaken by EPEF and to expedite routine
maintenance operations.  The same equipment can be used by operating
staff for valve control operations in the event that water rationing
is required before the new tunnel can augment the water supply to
Damascu s.
17.       Telecommunications will be established between the Wali
reservoirs and the Figeh source, using the new tunnel route, to permit
sensible upstream control of the volume of water directed to Damascus.
18.       Information on water levels in the reservoirs throughout the
distribution system will be transmitted to the associated pumping
stations. This will enable the pumps to be controlled by the reservoirs
they supply and will reduce overflows and manpower costs.
Distribution System Mains
19.       The pro4ect includes all mains which will be installed in
the EPEF syscem in the period from 1973 to mid-1977. The following
table inficates the approximate annual program of construction during
this reri2od:



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7 pages
Length of Mains to be Installed (km)
Category                     1973   1974   1975   1976   1977         Total
Main Lines                     -      14      40     30      -          84
Extenision in New Areas        60    110      45     50     20         285
Replacements                   40     10      40     50     20         160
Total                   100    134    125    130      40        529
20.       Preliminary designs for the main lines (diameters 100 mm to
1100 mm) have been prepared by the consultants (SEURECA) on the basis of
the master plan.  This skeleton will reinforce the existing distribution
system and enable it to be extended to new areas.
21.       EPEF has prepared designs for its 1973 program of extensions
and replacements in areas of obvious priority, based on the 1968 master
plan of the consultants. Arrangements are under way for the work to be
done by various local contractors and the EPEF labor force. The assist-
ane of consultants (SEURECA) is required to prepare designs and organize
construction of the expanded program of mains extensions and replacements.
22.       Planning for extensions in new areas is largely influenced by
the development plans for the Municipality and the rate at which other
elements of infrastructure (roads, power, sewers) can be constructed.
The Municipality and EPEF continuously revise their plans and all dis-
tribution system extensions are planned according to the priorities
established by the Municipality. Pipe lengths in the above estimates
are based on the areas expected to be served each year and on past
experience relating pipe lengths to the area served.
23.       Replacement of sections of the existing distribution system is
necessary to reduce leakage and to provide adequate capacity. Leakage is
generally due to the small diameter pipes of galvanized steel in the
old city of Damascus. As a result of continuous habitation over many
centuries the soil in these areas is fairly organic and causes accele-
rated corrosion of steel pipes. Furthermore, the pipes are very small
and cause pressure problems during periods of peak demand. Until the
consultants can analyze the existing system to determine which sections
can be repaired and which must be replaced, EPEF will continue on an
ad hoc basis to replace the sections causing the most obvious leakage.
24.       When distribution lines are being replaced, EPEF intends to
revise the method by which connections used to be made to supply consu-
mers. At present each consumer (e.g., each separate apartment in a
building) has an independent connection to the distribution line. EPEF
will modify this arrangement so that each building has only one
connection to the main.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7 pages
25.       Design criteria for improvements in the distribution system
are straightforward.  Maximum and minimum pressures are to be 60 m and
30 m respectively. In future the minimum pipe diameter will be 80 mm.
Roughness coefficients (Hazen Williams) of 100 for old pipes and 120
for new ones have been assumed. Ductile iron pipes will be used for
main lines and for replacement of existing pipes. Consideration will
be given to the possible use of plastic or asbestos cement pipes for
extensions in new areas where the traffic loads are light or where
ground conditions are less difficult.
26.       The length of mains expected to be installed in the 4.1/2
year project period is 529 km, an average of 118 km per year.  In
previous years the length installed by EPEF was as follows:
1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972    Total
Length (Ian)               72    30    31    22    68    72    801/   3751J
Installed by EPEF
1/ Preliminary figure
Approximately 65% of this total was small-diameter pipes (40 cm to 80 cm).
The total installed in the past seven years represents about 43% of the
total system at the end of 1972. The proposed project would increase the
length of the present system by about the same amount, after allowances
for removing the pipe wnich is to be replaced.
27.       At the end of 1972 EPEF had a total of 210 km of pipe on stock
and on order, of which some 78% was ductile iron. A small amount of this
inventory would be retained for maintenance purposes but most is intended
to be used during the project period, as follows:-
Length
Year               Purpose                        (km)
1973       Extension and Replacements            100
1974       Extension and Replacements             60
1974-76    Main Lines                             30
Total                                      190
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
2-3.      EPEF will purchase equipment to assist in the operation and
maintenance of the system. This includes master meters and other material
necessary for the leak detection program as well as workshop equipment and
maintenance vehicles.
Training
29.       EPEF wishes to arrange training for its technical, financial
and administrative staff. A total of about ten senior employees would



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7 pages
go abroad for periods of up to two years for theoretical and practical
training in their specialities. Most of this training would be for
engineers. Training in Syria of administrative staff is also envisaged.
EPEF has agreed to formulate a more definite program by December 31,
1973.






DAKAUCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                              ANNEX 4
COST LSTDWTES
ITEM                                   LOCAL     FOREIGN      TOTAL      LOCAL     FtREIGN     TOTAL       % FOREION
---------- LS ( ) ---------           USs (OOO)------
PART A - DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY
FIGEH SPRING DEVELOPMENT
a)  Underground Cutoff Wall                          700      1,000      1,700        175        250         425
b)  Surface Structures                               780      1,200      1,980        195         300        495
c   Pumping Tests                                 1.000         00       3.000        250        500         750
Sub-Total                                  2,180      4,200       6,680        620      1,050      1,670         63
TUNNEL FRCM FIGEH TO DAMASCUS
a)  Tunnel Excavation and Lining                  6,900      10,700     17,600      1,725       2,675      4,400
b)  JLccess Portals                                  140        200        340         35          50         85
c)  Tunnel Spillway to Barada River                  450        600      1.050        112         150        262
Sub-Total                                  7,b490    1,Soo       18,990      1,872      2,875       b,747        61
RESERVOIRS
a)  Vicinity of Tunnel Terminus                    3,000      3,100      6,100        750         775      1,525
b) Minor Reaervoirs in Distribution Systat         2,400      2,500      4,900        600         625      1.225
Sub-Total                                  5,400       5,600     11,000      1,350      1,400       2,750        51
PUMPING STATIONS
a)  New Construction                                 150        2bO        390          38         60         98
b) Renovations                                       200        200        400          50         5         100
Sub-Total                                     350        440        790         88        110         198        y
TELECONUICATION SYSTEMS
a)  Figeb Tunnel                                      20        110        130          5          27         32
b)  Pumping Station Operation                         70        410        480         17         103        120
c)  Portable Sets                                     20        130        1So          5          33         38
Sub-Total                                    110         650        760         27         163        190        86
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PIPELINES
a)  Main Lines                                     4,200     12,D00    16,600       1,050       3,100      4,150
b)  Extensions in New Areas                        5,600      7,600     13,200      1,400       1,900      3,300
c)  Replacements                                   5.oo       6,100     11.400      1,325       1,525      2.850
Sub-Total                                 15,100     26,100      41,200      3,775      6,525      10,300        63
OPERATION AND MINTENANCE EQUIENIUT                      120        800        920          30        200        230         87
CONSULTANTS                                           1,900      3,700      5,600         475        925      1,400         66
TRAINING                                                200        300        500          50         75        125        60
LAND                                                  8,760         -       8,760       2,190                 2,190         -
Sub-Total                                  41,910    53,290      95,200     1o,1477    13,323      23,800        56
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES
a)  Figeh Spring Development (20%)                   770        620      1,390        193         155        31h8
b) Tunnel from Figeh to Daasu  (29%)               2,960      2,560      5,520         740        640      1,380
c) Reservoirs (15%)                                 900         750      1,650        225         187        412
d)  Pumping Stations (15%)                            60         60        120         15          15         30
e)  Cmmrunications Systems (15%)                      10        100        110          2          25         27
f)  Distribution  ystem Pipelines (11%)           2,600       2,070      4,670        650         518      1,168
g) Consultants (15%)                                 200        610       .840     _ 50           160        210
Sub-Total                                  7,500      6,800      14,300      1,875      1,700       3,575        48
PRICE INCREASES                                       8,790      8,010     16,8oo      2,198       2,002      4.200        48
TOTAL (PART A)                         S8.200      68.100    126.300     11S.550    17,025      31,575        54
PART B - POLLUTIOC CONTROL STUDIES
EQUIPMENT                                                80         80        160          20         20         40        50
CONSULTANTS                                             640      2,960      3,600         160        7140       900        82
TRAINING                                                 80        160        240          20         hO         60         67
TOTAL (PART B)                             800      3           4.ooo       200         800      1,           80
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                   300    130300 14.750          17.825      32575       .
March 23, 1973






ANNEX 5
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                             Cumulative Disbursements at
and Quarter                               End of Quarter
(US$ 000)
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                      -
December 31, 1973                                     100
March 31, 1974                                        200
June 30, 1974                                         350
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                  1,360
December 31, 1974                                   2,310
March 31, 1975                                      3,280
June 30, 1975                                       4,160
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                  5,330
December 31, 1975                                   6,670
March 31, 1976                                      8, 820
June 30, 1976                                       8,970
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                 10,020
December 31, 1976                                  11,000
March 31, 1977                                     12,100
June 30, 1977                                      13,100
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                 14,000
December 31, 1977                                  15,000
Assumptions
1.        IDA Credit for US$15,000,000  of which US$1h,200,000 utilized
by EPEF for water supply project and balance of US$800,000 by Government
for pollution control studies.
2.        Credit made effective by September 30, 1973.
March 22, 1973






DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1973                1974                1975                 1976                 1977
. TTTT     I I        I II II II I IIII I 11111111       I    III  If I I III  I I
FIGEH SPRING DEVELOPMENT                              I          
TEST PUMP INSTALLATION AT FIGERH                    _o uu*Iu,aI I___     I I I ItttttttttttTEST PUMIPING
TUNNEL FROM FIGEH TO DAMASCUS        .__h      _'u1um m.ull E                                                             -
TERMINAL RESERVOIRS                        _              s__IhIh*hml1I
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM RESERVOIRS                 _                              """'
NEW PUMPING STATION                                          _            1  1r11*
PUMPING STATION RENOVATIONS
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PIPES
s__  DESIGN PERIOD
*i.mmuu TENDERING AND CONTRACT AWARD
CONSTRUCTION PERIOD
[World Bank - 7428






SYRIA
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
E.P.E.F. - ORGANIZATION 1972
BOARD
I
GENERAL
MANAGER
PUBLIC
RELATIONS
ADMINISTRATIVE                    TECHNICAL                       SATIC                            FINANCIAL
MANAGER                        MANAGER                         & PLANNING                         AGER
SUMERS'        LEGAL &
CON-           GENERAL
TRACTS
-~~  ~ ~   CJ)      ci)F-
w      I-  I-    w    0     I-
C) z   z              U -zF
OPERATIONS                            WORKS                          STUDIES &           0         0    u                I  ~ I 
DESIGN                       L I-  >I 
0~~~~      <0             0
EMR                                   MAN      E                  E                 OR ACCOUNT- h
BUILDING  TRANS-                             CONNECT-           WORK1OF                                      BILLING
D N ~      GNY PMIGWTC-DSRC    XE-TP-                                              RWN                 EE    N                     EE
MTCE  ORT    CREWS                                                                         REPAIRS  MA-               READERSNN






DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                               ANNEX 8
PROJECTIONS OF POPULATION, WATER CONSUMPTION
AND WATER PRODUCTION
TOTAL TRANSMISSION CAPACITY 8.2m3/sec.
700                                                                 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - __  _-_ _- _  _
_                                    ~~~~~~~~~~I
600 _
BARADA SPRING DEVELOPMENT-_
WITH ASSUMED RELIABLE
500 _                                                    |                                 YIELD OF 2.0m3/sec.
450 ___'
_   NEW TUNNEL, FIGEH- DAMASCUS               ASSUMED RELIABLE YIELD OF FIGEH SPRING  5.0m3/sec                .
CAPACITY  5.2m3/sec.
400
3 50                                                                   -                                                                  S 24000
X. 0* 
rn   _  tt                                        Kp>Oi/4i                                      /                  2 1200o0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
300
250                                                                             2tu00
80                                                                                                                                             2,500
w                                                          *                                                                                           2,400
70     l    l    l   l         l   l    l   l         l   l    l    l        l    l   l    l        l    l   l    l        b    |        ,_    2,300
z 200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~,                                                                                                         ,0
<                                                                                          9                                                           2,1000
O                        -
80                                                                                                                            _ _1__ _900__
180    ~   *1,800
1,700
160                                                                                                                                             1,600 
000,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z
1,500     <,
140                                                                                                                                             1,400     I
00, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
000                                                                  -~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,300 
120                                       .1oo 
0
These projections extend to the distant future                   1,100
100,                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~to illustrate the possible staging of source de-
100  .00,  velopment. The reliable yield of the Figeh and
-Barada springs is not knovvn at present. Pro-                     1,000
jections of population, consumption, losses and
hence production become increasinglV unreliable
90                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in the future.                                      900
80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
70  ACTU                                           T:       ~ ~~~~~~~~~PROJECTED70
19165      iuI70                  ~~~~19 75               19 80                  19185                  19 90                   I995
(YEARS)
World Bank - 7427






ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 8 pages
SYRIA
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Least-Cost Solution
1.        All major components of the Damascus Water supply system --
source works, transmission lines and distribution system -- require
expansion to keep pace with the increasing demand for water. EPEF
engaged consultants to plan this expansion on the basis of reasonable
projections of future demand (see Annex 2) and after a thorough
analysis of alternative development plans which specifically consi-
dered staging of the various components.
2.        The largest investments (see Annex 4) are in the distribu-
tion system. In the 1968 master plan of the consultants (SEURECA)
proposals were made to extand the system in two stages to supply the
demand expected when Damascus grew according to its 1964-1984 plan
for urbanization. In 1972 these plans were updated by SEURECA to take
account of modifications in the assumptions and a priority program of
work was outlined for the project 1973-1977. Designs for most elements
of the distribution system expansions are not yet finalized. They will
be reviewed throughout the project and revised as necessary, consistent
with the growth of Damascus and its water needs, to ensure the most
economic solutions.
3.        Four main alternatives were investigated in the planning of
the source development and related transmission system. The least-cost
solution was clearly the further development of the Figeh spring and
construction of a tunnel to deliver water from this source to Damascus.
A summary of the alternatives, which were considered follows.
4.   (i)  Figeh spring development and tunnel to Damascus
This groundwater source provides Damascus with excellent
water at very low cost since it requires no treatment and
flows to most consumers by gravity. However, the flow
varies considerably (see Annex 1) with the lowest recorded
flow below present requirements, and the transmission capa-
city of the existing aqueduct (3.0 m3/second) is too small
for present and future needs. Fortunatehy, the average
flow of the spring is quite large (8.4 m /second) and the
consultants expect that underground storage in the aquifer
which feeds the spring can be utilized to increase its
yield at relatively low cost. Accordingly this alternative
includes an underground cutoff wall (to avoid wasting
spring water) and test pumping to explore the storage
possibilities.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 8 pages
In this alternative a tunnel would be constructed
to augment the present aqueduct to Damascus. The
minimum caplcity of the tunnel would have to be
about 4.0 m /second, the estimated system pro-
duction capacity required in 1977 (when the tunnel
would be completed) so that the existing aqueduct could
be taken out of service for badly needed repairs. How-
ever, the smallest tunnel which would be economical to
construct provides a capacity of 5.2 m /second, more
than required.  The tunnel would be 15.O lea long and
terminate at the Wali reservoir above Damascus. With
allowances for physical contingencies the cost of this
least-cost alternative totalled LS32.5 million
(US$8.1 million).
(ii) Figeh spring development and pipeline to Damascus
As in the previous alternative the existing Figeh
source would be further developed.
A pipeline would be constructed to Damascus. The
capacity requirement of 4.0 m3/second necessitates
a large diameter pipeline (1lh00 mm asbestos cement)
which would be quite expensive to install. The pipe-
line route, 18.3 km long, is very difficult, along
the rocky and narrow Barada valley. Two pipeline
bridges would be required over the river and ten
crossings under roads, railway and canals. At its
terminus at the Wali reservoir the pipeline would be
some 50 m lower than the reservoir. Although most
of the distribution system could be supplied from
the pipeline, it is necessary to consider a pumping
station with capacity of about 1.5 m /second, to pump
water to the higher distribution zones that coula be
supplied by the tunnel alternative.
The estimated costs of this alternative, including
land expropriation, access roada and the pumping
station and allowances for physical contingencies,
total LS42 million (US$105. million). This
alternative, which also involves annual pumping costs,
was rejected because it was more expensive than the
first one.
(iii)  Dam on teri Barada River and pipeline to Damascus
As the Figeh spring is a principal source of the Barada
River, the possibility of using the river to transmit
the water much of the way to Damascus was investigated.
In 1961 consultants from the USSR (Technopromexport)



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 8 pages
completed a preliminary analysis of a multipurpose
reservoir on the Barada River which could supply
water for domestic purposes and irrigation in
Damascus as well as control floods. Data from this
report was used by SOGREAH to analyze a smaller dam
to be built for water supply purposes only, since the
hypothetical multipurpose project is unlikely to be
built in the immediate future. A water supply project
to provide about 4.0 m3/secona would require a dam
about 60 m high with a reservoir covering some 210 ha.
A pumping station and about 10 lao of pipeline would be
required to deliver the water to Damascus. The pre-
liminary cost estimate for this alternative totals
LS75 million (US$18.7 million). This alternative was
compared to the first one and was rejected. In
addition to being considerably more expensive, it
has several disadvantages:
(a) reservoir water would probably require treatment
and sewerage schemes woula be required to prevent
contamination by upstream communities, necessitating
additional capital costs;
(b) additional annual costs would be incurred for pumping
and` treatment;
(c)  this alternative project could not be operational
for about six years because of the need to prepare
engineering designs and relocate buildings, roads
and the railway in the reservoir area, and also
because of the long construction period for such
a project;
(d) a reservoir with associated installations and
pipelines is much tess secure as a water source
than an unaerground source and a tunnel.
(iv)   Groundwater from Damascus Plain
Wells are the common source of water for irrigation in
the area arouna Damascus. The irrigated area totals
some 12,000 ha. The Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources estimates that some 8,000 wells rely on this
aquifer which is recharged by the Barada River and
smaller seasonal streams flowing from the Anti- Lebanon
Mountains. EPEF is temporarily using two wells at
Jobar but intends to abandon them as soon as possible
(see Annex 1). There are many reasons why it is
impractical to consider using this groundwater to
augment the Damascus water supply.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 8 pages
(a) All the groundwater is bacteriologically contami-
nated due to gross pollution, mostly from Damascus;
until a comprehensive sewerage system is constructed
the use of this groundwater is undesirable for health
reasons.
(b)  A centuries-old system!. of water rights allocation has
evolved in the region including a hierarchy of committees.
To meddle with these traditional allocations would be
extremely difficult if not impossible.
(c)  The yield of indi3idual wells is quite small, generally
less than 1,000 m /day, which would make the development
of this source very expensive in view of the large and
increasing demand for water in Damascus (see Annex 2).
Furthernore, such wells would involve substantial pumping
costs, both to bring the water to the surface and (since
the ground rises toward the city) to transmit it to
higher-lying areas where the urban consumers are located.
Rate of Return
5.        Any measurement of the rate of return associated with the
proposed project requin-s an estimation of the future streams of costs
and benefits, both of which extend far beyond the period of project
construction. The large transmission capacity of the project tunnel
will probably not be fully utilized by the Figeh source, whose reliable
yield will probably be less than the combined transmission capacity of
the present aqueduct and the new tunnel. This is clearly illustrated
on the chart in Axirex 8.
6.        The source to be used to supply water to Damascus after the
Figeh spring is fully exploited is not definitely known but it is likely
to be the Barada spring, about 14 km NW of Figeh. Water from this source
could be piped to Figeh and flow via the tunnel to Damascus. On the
basis of current projections, it appears that the conbination of these
two sources, using the Figeh tunnel, would be sufficient to meet the
needs of Damascus until about 1997 (see Annex 8). It is not possible
to predict the source to be used subsequently. Alternatives include
the Alwaj River (20 km south of Damascus) and recycling of treated
wastewater. As no subsequent source is expected to use the project
tunnel, it is assumed that the benefits of the proposed project do not
increase after 1997.
Costs
7.        Costs between 1973 and 1997, necessary to obtain the full
benefits of the project, are considered. They include:



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 8 pages
(i) project expenditures;
(ii)  other investment in the physical installations
during 1973-1997, including the development of
the Barada spring (about 1991);
(iii)  operating costs above the 1972 base-year level
(including the cost of intensified source
pumping as and when required to augment the
natural flow).
8.        Costs are at constant (1972) prices and exclude taxes (taken
at 5% of capital costs); cost increases not attributable to the increased
output are likewise excluded (e.g. additional personnel to fill existing
staffing gaps). Extensions of the network financed by consumers' capital
contributions are similarly excluded, these contributions being taken to
reflect a minimum measure of benefits received. Pipes taken from
excessive existing stocks however are not excluded; although in a sense
"sunk costs", these costs are partly "retrievable" in that, if the pipes
were not used for the project, there is an alternative use for them in
other parts of the country where large diameter pipes are needed.
Accordingly, 75% of their value is included as a cost, the balance
representing an approximation of transport costs to the nearest alter-
native user.
9.        No shadow pricing is employed in the calculation; reported
unemployment is low, and the exchange rate used for the Syrian pouna. is
a free market rate which has shown remarkable stability.  (In7 sense
this shadow prices the official rate of LS3.83 to the dollar.-/) There
might be a case for shadow pricing labor costs, whicn would increase
the rate of return, on the grounds that unemployment statistics under-
emphasize the extent of unpaid family and apprentice labor, but no
attempt has been made to calculate this adjustment.
Benefits
10.       The benefits from the program of investments come from increased
sales of water over 1972 levels, to both new and existing consumers, since
neither type of growth would be possible without the investments in
question. About 1997 all the project facilities would be fully utilized
and a further source development would be needed; accordingly, project
benefits from sales of water after that year are taken as static.
11.       Ignoring health and social benefits, which are difficult to
quantify, a minimum measure of the value of the additional water is the
price people are willing to pay for it. This may be the price they are
now paying, or even more; yet at a higher price, the same quantities may
not be sold.
1/   The official rate is used mainly for cotton and petroleum exports
and pipeline dues; most other transactions take place at the "free"
rate of LS4.0 to the dollar, established by the Central Bank on the
basis of the Beirut currency market.



ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 8 pages
12.       The present price in Damascus is LSO.20/m3 (US$19/1000 gals),
but as long ago as 1949 the price was higher (LSO.25). It might there-
fore seem reasonable to argue that after more than 20 years of even modest
inflation (the exact rate is not known), the present-day equivalent of what
consum*4rs were W4'he4n willing to pay must be at least LSO.35/m3.  In 1949,
however, the whole pattern of water supply was different; only 15,000
consumers had a supply, compared with about 130,000 now, and it would
therefore be unsafe to reason along the lines indicated, especially as we
have no knowledge of the level of per capita consumption at that time.
13.       At the beginning of the 1960's (fran which time price indices
are available), the pattern of water supply, with 60,000-70,000 consumers,
was taking shape along present-day lines. Since then (when the price of
water was the same as now) the retail price index has risen on average
by about 3% annually. If water rates had kept pace they would now be
about LS0.30/m3 in Damascus; this is comparable with the tariff of
LS0.25-0.40/m3 now in force .n Aleppo, where per capita consumption is
estimated to be about the same as in Damascus. A rate of LSO.30/m3 has
therefore been used in the calculation.
14.       This rate of LSO.30 would still be lowl/ and it is not thought
that such a price would have any noticeable effect on quantities consumed,
in a system subject to shortages and where such water uses as car-washing
and watering of public gardens are either forbidden or provided from
private boreholes.
15.       Only that part of the increased supply of water which is
charged for at the metered rate is taken into account.f No value is
attached to free water supplied through standpipes or to mosques; nor
to the free suppLY to which water right holders are entitled. Instead,
however, receipts from sales of new water rights (from 1973 on) are
treated as a revenue, since these receipts represent partly a payment for
the "free" water, and partly a payment for the right of admission to the
network, which would not be possible without the project-related expansion
program. They represent the capture of part of the "consumers' surplus"'
inhereht in a flat-rate tariff structure. Incremental revenues from
miscellaneous charges are also counted.
1/   The rate of LSO.30/m3 is equivalent to US$0.28/1000 gals.
For canparison rates charged in other countries in the region
are as follows:
Amman, Jordan   . ....... US$0.88/1000 gals.
Istanbul, Turkey ........... US$0.47/1000 gals.
Tehran, Iran ......... ..... US$0.42/1000 gals.
j    Some of the additional revenue must be attributable to improved
metering and is therefore not strictly an economic benefit; however,
the quantity is not ascertainable and, since part of the defective
metering is already compensated by "estimation" billing, no adjust-
ment has been made,



ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 8 pages
Rate of Return Calculation
16.       With the rate of LSO.30 used as a minimum measure of benefits,
and under the assumption that w5ter right sales will continue to be at
present price (LS2000 for one m /day), the economic rate of return on the
investments is 11.9%.    An increase of the charge for water rights to,
say, LS2500/m-'/day would have little effect on the rate of return, since
there would be a corresponding reduction in the annual fee payable by the
new water-right holders concerned. Attributing a lower price of LS0.25/m3
to metered water would proauce a rate of return of about 10.1%. Details
of cost and benefit streams are appended to this Annex.
17.       A rate of return of 10% would still be attained if:
(i) project costs were underestimated by 21%
or  (ii)  other investment costs were underestimated by 54%
or (iii) incremental operating costs were underestimated by 42%
or  (iv)  incremental revenues were overestimated by 21%
18.       Three alternative calculations were made to test the effect
of different estimates of the Figeh source storage. The assumption on
whi5h the main calculation was based is that the source will yield up to
5 m /sec with pumping, which would require harnessing a second source
about 1991. Lower estimates would bring forward and higher rates would
defer the need for the additional source, besides altering the probable
pattern of pumping costs. The effect of the alternatives on the rate of
return was negligible.
19.       The calculation takes no account of the social costs resulting
from the increased flow of sewage or from the slight loss of agricultural
water; but these costs are felt to be counter-balanced by the benefits to
health and fire protection.



ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 8 pages
Rate of Return using Sale Price of LSo.30/m3
(1)         (2)       (3)        (4)           (5)         (6)          (7)
… -    - -     Million LS- --
Other     Increinntl.   Ihcremntl.  Water        Net Revenues
Year      Project    Invest.   pp. Costs      Revenues     Rights    (Net Costs)
1973        7.5       3.9         0.2           0.8         2.2           (8.6)
1974       29.3       2.0          0.4          1.7         2.3          (27.7)
1975       29.4       0.7         0.7           2.5         2.4          (25.9)
1976       26.5       1.2         1.0           3.5         2.5          (22.7)
1977        9.2       0.6         1.3           4.6         2.6           (3.9)
1978         -        2.4         1.8           6.1         2.7            4.6
1979         -        1.7          2.0          7.1         2.8            6.2
1980         -        1.7         2.3           8.3         2.9            7.2
1981         -        1.6         2.7           9.6         3.0            8.3
1982         -        1.6         2.9          10.9         3.1            9.5
1983         -        1.7         3.3          12.3         3.2           10.5
1984         -        1.7         3.6          13.9         3.3           11.9
1985         -        1.8         3.9          15.4         3,5           13.2
1986         -        1.9         4.3          16.9         3.6           14.3
1987         -        1.9         4.8          18.4         3.7           15.4
1988         -        2.0         5.2          20.1         3.9           16.8
1989         -        2.0         5.6          21.8         4.0           18.2
1990         -        2.1          6.2         23.6         4.2           19.5
1991         -        7.1         6.8          25.6         4.3           16.0
1992         -        2.3          6.2         27.6         4.5           23.6
1993         -        2.3         6.6          29.5         4.6           25.2
1994         -        2.3          7.1         31.6         4.8           27.0
1995         -        2.5          7.5         33.7         5.0           28.7
1996         -        2.5         8.1          36.0         5. 2          30.6
1997         -        2.7         8.7          38.4         5.14          32.4
1998-2012    -         -           8.7         38.4                       29.7
Rate of Return at above values ..........1 .9%
ROR 10% achieved even if:-
Col. (2) understated by  21%
Col. (3) understated by  54%
Col. (4) understated by  42%
Col. (5) Overstated by  21%
Col. (6) overstated by 312%



SYRIA
DAI4ASCUIS WATR SUPPLY PROJCT
EPEF
Income Statements - Actual (1969-Tl) and Projected (1972-82)
Fiseal year ending December 31.                               1969     1970      17       1972      193                                              1978      1
Total Population Served                    (Thousand)               870       914       968    1,007     1,046    1,089     1,132     1,177     1,224     1,273    1,324     1,376     1,432     1,438
No. of Connections at Year-end1             (Thousand)              112       117       123      130       136       143      150       157       164       171      179       187       196       205
No. of New Co,nectimns in Year                                     5,447    5,494    6,305    6,900    6,600    6,800    7,100        7,400    7,700    8,000    8,300       8,600    9,000      9,300
No. having Water Rights - Additional                              1,526    1,715    2,091    2,449    2,200    2,300    2,400    2,500    2,600           2,700    2,800     2,900     3,000     3,100
Cumulative                               61,245   62,960   65,051   67,500   69,700   72,000   74,400   76,900   79,500    82.200   85,000   87,900   90,900   94,000
Water Rights as a3/day - Additi.l,         (Thousand ,a3)           0.76     0.85      1.04     1.22      1.10      1.15     1.20      1.25      1.30      1.35     1.40      1.45      1.50      1.55
Cumulative          (Tbous nd   )          26.74    27.59    28.63    29.85    30.95    32.10        33.30    34.55     35.85     37.20    38.60    40.05    441.55      43.10
Water Rigbts an .3/year - C-utive           (Million a3)            9.8     10.1      10.5     10.9      11.3      11.7      12.2     12.6      13.1      13.6      14.1      14.6     15.2      15.7
Volm  .imV  W                            21(M1 (illion a3)        3o.4      33.1      35.1     37.6      39.8      42.7     45.3      48.2      51.8      56.6     59.9      63.5      67.5      71.5
Proportion of Water Rights actually      d_xaed/    (%)            99        98        88       98        98       98        98        98        98        98       98        98        98        98
Volume attributable to Water Rigbht2/       (Million u3)           9.7       9.9       9.2     10.7      U.1       U.5      11.9      12.4      12.8      13.3      13.8     14.3      14.9      15.4
Exces - Cbargeable Consuaption              (Fdllion *')           20.7     23.2      25.9     26.9      28.7      31.2     33.4      35.8      39.0      43.3     46.1      49.2      52.6      56.1
R te for Chargeable Consuoption (average)   (a/s,3)                0.20    '0.20       0.20     0.20      0.20      0.20     0.27      0.27      0.27      0.27     0 27      0.27      0.27      0.30
Annual Fee for Water Rlght bolders          (LS for 1 a3/day)      14.00    14.00    14.00    14.00      14.00    14.00      40.00    40.00     40.00     40.00     40.00    40.00     40.00     50.00
----------------------------------------------------------- Tbousand IS -------------------____--_________________________________---
Mrgeable Consumption                                          4,139    4,642    5,179    5,384      5,740    6,240    9,020       9,670    10,530   11,690    12,450    13,280    14,200    16,830
Annal Fee. (Water Right holders)                                366      391       392       410      425       440    1,330     1,360     1,435     1,490    1,545    1,600      1,660     2,115
Water Pent and &ointensce Fees                                  598      611,      628      77        81        86        965     f.C70    1,175    1,275    1,33        1, 49     1,61     1,725
Distribution Syetem Maintenance Feesy                           196      190       359         5        &       5d        525      555       580       6d5       636       660      690       7W
New Connections and Meter Installation'                         394      531       463       462      475       470       475       505      475       410       410       435       470      500
Other Fees and Charges                                           50       50        49       87        95        95      10'       100       100       105       110      115       120       125
Non-Operatiog and Previous Year'a Revenues                       93       247      137       490      150       160       170       210      230       250       270       285       300       320
5,836    6,662    7,207      8,005    L,175     8,770   12,585    13,490    14,525    15,825    16,795    17,865    19,050    22,335
*asonnel                                                      2,202    2,442    2,562    2,874      3,160    3,470      3,810    4,190     4,440    4,71o    4,990       5,290     5,605     5,940
HLintenaene Ad Haterials                                         62      202       168       175      180       200       250       390      470       625       650       680       700       700
Piping                                                          330      442       626       670      770       865       765       715      750       790       820       935       970     1,015
Vehicle Expenses, Transport, Travel                             123       90       i67       125      140       155       170       190      200       210       225       240       250       270
Heat, Ligbt and Miscellaneous Admin. Expenses                   158       142      145       162      170       180       180       190      200       210       220       230       240       250
New Connections                                                 150       199      224       208       190-    190        200       190       180      180       180       200       210       220
Civil Defence Lefvy                                              46       42         2       -             -              -         -         _        _         _         _ 
Transfers to bd DLebts Provision                                -         10        10        10       10        10        20        10       10        10         5         5        10         5
Trassfers to Retiresent Provision                               -        115         2         5        5         4         4         2        2       -         -         -         -         -
Muollaeowu                                                       11        2         4        12       15        15        15        20        20       20        25        25        30        30
NIcn-'perating and Previous Years' Expenses                     175        52      192       100       110      120       135       145       160       170      180       185       195       205
write-offi/Contingencies Provision                               29        22      -         100       150      200       280       300       320       345      365       390       410       430
Depreciation                                                  1,459    1,382     1,703     1,673    1,848    2,272      2,988     3,819    4,509    4,747      4,842    4,923      4,998     5,073
4,745    5,142    5,805    6,1114    6,748    7,681       8,81T   10,16;1   11,261    12,017   12,502    13,103    13,618    14,138
NIET OPERMAI   IO4E                                                1,091    1,520     1,402    1,891    1,427    1,089    3,768        3,329    3,264     3,808     4,293     4,762    5,432      8.197
Interest                                                             -        -         -               4        76       750    1,782     2,755     3,388    3,340    3,244       3,142     3,034
NET IEC3G                                                          1,091    1,520    1,402    1,891    1,423    1,013    3,018        1,547       509       420       953     1,518     2.290     5.163
Operating Netio (after Depreciation)                                 .81      .77       .81      .76       .83       .88       .70      .75       .78      .76       _74       .73       .71        .63
Average Net Fixed Assets                    (Million LS)              31       32        32        34       40        56        83       112      143       158       157       155       153       151
ete of flltums on Averae Not Fixed
LsZts (No Operatin4g InCom plus
Water Riot Smug).(                                                 8.4      10.1     10.9      12.7       9.1      6.1       7.4       5.2      4.1       4.1       4.5       4.9       5.5       7.5
1                  sscluding ifree upplies (standpipes and religious buildings).
V   1969_71 besed on asaples.
Yrroneow under-llocations 1969-70 corrected 1972 (agairst "Previous Years' RevenuesB).
April 26, 1973






SYRIA
ISNASCUS WATER SUPPLY FltOJECT
EPEP
Cash Flow Statements - Actual (1969-71) and Projected (1972-82)
Fiscal year ending December 31                               1969     1970      1971          1972 1973     1974     1975      1976     1977      1973-77   1978      1979       9       1981      193 2
SOUFCES or FalD
Net Operating Income                                         1,091    1,520    1,402    1,891    1,427    1,089       3,768    3,329    3,264    12,877    3,808    4,293    4,762   5 432    8,197
Add Depreciation                                             1,459    1,382    1,703    1,673    1,848    2,272    2,988    3,819    4,509  | 15,436  1 4.747    4 842    4.923    4,998    5,073
Internal Cash Generation                                2,550    2,902    3,105    3,564    3,275    3,361    6,756    7,148    7.773    28,313         8,555    9,135     9.685    10,4t0   13,270
Water R.ght Sales                                            1,516    1,706    2,075    2,440    2,200    2,300    2,400    2,500    2,600        12,000    2,700    2,800    2,900    3,000    3,100
Consumer,' Capital Contributioce.Y                             907      730       447      190      495       510      530       555      575      2,665       600      625       645      675       695
Trnfers from (tti Government                                (2,990)    (378)  (1,124)      -      7,000   18,000    7,000    7,700   (7,800)   31,900   (3,100)  (4.000)   (4,8oo)  (5,300)  (7.600)
Proceeds of TDA Credit                                         -        -         -        -        400    8,040   16,240   16,520   15,600    56,80           -        -         -        -         -
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable, Provisions, etc.    1,268    '(T34)     750       242      753    1,812     1,288    1,097   (1,528) |  3,422        747       722       763      805       850
TOTAL SOURCES                  3,251    4,226    5,253    6,436   14,123   34,023   34,214    35,520   17,220   135.100       9,502     9.282    9.193    9,610   10.315
APPLICATIaCl F FUNDS
Capital Expenditure - Project                                           - _                -       8,470   33 500   37,900   34,200   12,230   126  t                                                -
Capital Expenditure - Other Works                            2,577    2,113    3,763    3,650    4,700    2,700    1,400    2,200    1,600    12 600  t 4,000         3,000     3,000    3,000    3,000
TOTAM IhVES1fTI3               2,577    2,113    3,763    3,650   13,170   36,200   39,300   36,400   13,830   338,900    4,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,o0o
Interest - -  Credit                                           -        -         -        _          4        76      750    1,782    2,755       5,367    3,388    3,340    3,24        3,142    3,034
apsyment - IDA Credit                                          _753    1,575    1,671    1,773                                                                                                     1,881
Total Debt Service               _        _         _                   4        76      750    1,782      2,755     5,367    4,141    4,915      4,915    4,915    4,15
Increase (Decrease) in Stocks                                1,078    (817)       399      690      535   (1,960)  (7,200)    (220)        800  1 (8,045) i   800       800       800       900      900
Increase (Decrease) in Seceivables                                                                                                              I
and Short-Term Advances                                  (no)   1,456        985    1,041    2,011       130    1,081   (2,400)    (400)        422       600       500      S00       700    1,400
Cash Accrual (Outflow)                                        (294)   1,474       106    1,055   (1,597)    (423)       283      (42)      235    (1.544)      (39)      67       (221       95       100
TOTA1 APPLICATION              3,251    4,226    5,253    6,436   14,123   34,023    34,214   35,520   17,220  ,135,100    9,502        9,282    9,193    9,610    10,315
Cash at Beginning of year                                           315       21    1,495    1 601    2 656    1,059        636       919      877                1 112    1 073    1 140    1,118    1,213
Cash at End of year                                                  21    1,495    1,601    2,656   1i059         636      919       877    1,112                1,073    1,140    1,118    1,213    1,313
Debt Service Covereg  (Times)                                     n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      818.8     44.2      9.0       4.0       2.8                 2.1      1.9       2.0       2.1      2.7
Erroneous over-allocatles 19b9-70 corrected 1972.
April 26, 1973



A_KkSCJS WAMR SJUPT2  PrOJDT2T
EF
Balance Sheet - Actual (1268-71)and Prejected (1972-82)
Fie a1 year-end (Decebuher 31)                             1968     1969     1970     1971      1972     1973     1974     1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981     192
------------------------------------------------------------__-- ____-  Thouaand  LS  ---------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
Fi.ed Aseet.                                               41,219   42,714   45,050   47,219   51,454   63,254   87,854  121,254  153,954  190,354   194,354  197,854  200,854  203,854  206,854
La,, Depreciation                                          10,172   11,623   13,003   14,706   16,379   18,227   20,499   23,487   27,306   31,815    36,562   41,404   46,327   51,325   56,398
Net Fixed Aeeta                                       31,047   31,091   32,047   32,513   35,075   45,027   67,355   97,767   126,648  158,539   157,792  156,450  154,527  152,529  150,456
Work in Progress                                             132    1,214       991    2,585    2,000    3,370   14,970   20,870   24,570    2,000       2,000    1,500    1,500    1,500      1,500
Total Fixed Assets                                    31,179   32,305   33,038   35,098   37,075   48,397   82,325  118,637  151,218  160,539   159,792  157,950  156,027  154,029  151,956
Inveents and Advancesz
Goernnt                                                  20,359   23,349   23,727   24,851   24,851   17,851      -         -        -        -          -          51    4,851   10,151   17,751
M'nicipsilty                                              1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137        1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137    1,137
Housing loans                                               221      189      154      116        78       39       19      -        -        -          -        -        -         -        -
land Options                                                300      300      300      300       300     -        -         -        -        _          _        _        _
Total Imrestnts and Advances                          22,017   24,975   25,318   26,404   26,366   19,027    1,156    1,.37    1,137    1,137        1,137     1,188    5,988    11,288   18,888
Stock,                                                     9,995   11,073   10,256   10,655   11,345   11,880    9,920    2,720    2,500    3,300        4,100    4,900    5,700    6,600    7,500
Accounts Receivable - Water Conaumers                       5,108    4,369    4,504    4,376    4,500    4,750    4,500    5 800    5 700    6,000        6,600    7.000    7,400    8,000    9,300
- Connetions and Water Righta              389    1,326    1,734    2,322    2,400    2,200    2,300    2,400    2,500    2 600        2,700    2,800    2, 900        3, 0  I 100
- Advance Payments and idac.             1,388    1,112    2,060    2,623    3,500    5,80o    6,100    5,800    3,400    2,600        2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,300
…~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6,885    6,807    8,298    9,321   10,400   12,750   12,900   14,000   11,600   11,200    11,800   12,300   12,800   13,500   14,900
Les Ba dDebts Provisimn                   10       10        20       30       40       50        60       80       90       100       110       115      120      130       135
6,875    6,797    8,278    9,291   10,360   12,700   32,840   13,920   11,510   11,100    11,699   12,185   12,680   13,370   14,765
Cub and Bank                                                 315        21    1,495    1,601    2,656    1,059       636       919      877    1,112      1,073    1,140    1,118    1,213    1.313
Total Current Assets                                  17,185   17,891   20,029   21,547   24,361   25,639   23,396   17,559   14,887   15,512    16,863   18,225   19,498   21.183   23.578
TOtAL ASSETS                                      70,381   75,171   78,385   83,049   87,802   93,063  3.06,877  137,333  167,242   177,188   177,792  177,363  181,513  186,500  194,422
ZqOlT  ADID SniIIu
!quity - Prior to 1959                                     29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340    29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340   29,340
-  aed Surplus                                      13,877   14,968   16,488   17,890   19,781   21,204    22,217   25,2t5   26,782   27,291    27,711   28,664   30,182   32,472   37,635
- Bnle of Water Bagsts                              23,240   24,756   26,462   28,537   30,977   33,177   35,477   37 877  740,377   42,977    45,677   48477   51,377   54,377   57,477
- Cosumers' Cotributions                             1 214    2121    2851                 348    383         ,493    5.02t    5578    6 153       6 753    7,378    8 023    8,698    9,393
Total Equity                                                                        5                               97 , 79 5 17,47    102077  105;761   _____      __182234
Long-Tors Debt - IDA Cred                                             -        - p                          40o    8,440   24,680   41 2                 54.472    52.801   51.028   49.147   47.151
Advances fro Goverment                                                                                                149    7,149   14,49    7,049       3,949
Accounta Payable and Other Proviaions
Conosesrs' Deposita and Advanoe Payments               1,091    1,521    1,829    2,304    2,670    3,30       3,940    4,595    5,265    5,950      6,650    7,365    8,095    8,845    9,610
Retention Money                                          124      131      101       211      200      340    1,500    2,100    2,460        200       200       200      200      200       200
BSipless and ?isceaneous                                813    1,681       549      777      750       820      goo      990    1,105    1,200      1,295    1,365    1,440    1,540    1,620
retisnt Provision                                        682      63        765      62       596      4                  344      286       228       170       102       55     -
Owvent Ibturition or long-Ten Debt                                    -        -         -                 - 9,1                1 6             7,57       3 i   ;                   T5        fl11
Tbta Current Liabilities                   3,8 83 8                                         7m ;  7                                      -                   10 70t ;
TOTAL EQUITY Mx IABrrB                            70,381   75, 17l  70,385   83,0449   87,8Q2   93,063     ,877  137,333    167,242  177,188   177,792  177,.363  181.513  186.500  194,422
Debt/Equity Ratio                                              0,100    0:100    0:1:O     0:100    0:100    0:100    8s92      20:80    29: n     R5:65     33:67    32:68      30:70   28:72    26:74
N Net of current maturities
April 26, 1973



ANNEX 13
SYRIA
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
E.P.E.F. - PRESENT TARIFF
Description                   Payable by                   Amount
Non-Recurring Charges
(i)   Water Right Purchase             Applicantsl! wi P  pre-        LS 2000
mises over lOOm               per m3/day V
(ii)   Capital Contribution             All applicants                Ain. LS 75
(iii)   Connection Fee                       -do-                       Cost plus 20%
(iv)   Subscription Fee                     -dd-                       LS 5
(v)   Meter Installation Fee              -do-                        LS 5
(vi)   Deposit                              -do-                       Consumption
deposit plus
value of meter
Recurring Charges
(i)   Metered Supply                   Water right holders            L30.20/m3
- excess. Others 7
all consumption 21
(ii)   Annual Fee                       W.R. holders                   LS 14 per m3/
day of water
right
(iii)   Meter Rent and Mainten-          All consumers                  'Varies
ance                                                            (Basic = LS9
per year)
(iv)   Subscription to                        -do-                     LS 3.60 year
Distribution System
Maintenance
(v)         -do-
.(Temporary Supplies)            As appropriate                 LS 50 year
/ Public, religious and certain other types of premises are exempt.
The allowance to be purchased depends on the size of the premises and can
be as little as l/1. m3/day.
S/ Not for public standpipes or religious buildings.






ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 4 pages
SYRIA
DAM_ASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Income Statements
1.        Population served, number of connections and volumes consumed
are in accordance with the projections in Annex 2. Total connections
grow by slightly less than the number of new connections, because some
old connections are abandoned each year. About one-third of new consu-
mers are assumed to purchase a water right; though the overall average
to date has been about one-in-two, the trend has shown fluctuations
-- after high percentages up to 1966, it dropped to one-in-four in that
year, but has since been rising year by year to one-in-three in 1970-71.
The average3water right purchase is projected to continue to be for
about 1/2 m /day.
2.        Of the water supplied, part is not chargeable at the metered
rate, being within the allowance purchased by water right holders; this
unchargeable portion is assumed to be equal to 98' of the total
allowance.
3.        Increases in tariffs are, for simplicity, assumed to bear
upon the metered rate only (with consequential adjustments in the
annual fee which links the price of water rights to the current price
of water -- see paragraph 6.08 of main Report); the price of water
rights is deemed to remain at LS2000/m3/day. The authorities could
however increase this, instead of (or as well as) the metered rate.
The tariffs assumed are:
To end 1974 To end 1981 Thereafter
Price per 3                 LS 0.20       LS 0.27       LS 0.30
Annual Fee_/                LS14.00       LS40.00       LS50.00
1J Calculated in projections on mid-year figures of
accumulated water rights.
4.        "MIeter Rent and i4aintenance Fees" are projected at LS9 a year,
except for consumers owning their own meter who pay only the maintenance
fee of LS5; these are assumed to be phased out by 1982, with EPEF install-
ing its own meters throughout the city. "Distribution System Maintenance
Fees" are estimated at the present level of LS3.60 a year per connection,
calculated on the mid-year total of connections.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 4 pages,
5.       '"New Connectins and Meter Installation" are assumed at LS70
for a decreasing number of new connections, and LSLO for an increasing
proportion; the lower fee reflects a new policy of EPEF in providing
pavement connection boxes for easier hook-ups. Both are adjusted to
reflect 3% annual cost inflation. In addition, it is estimated that
10,000 new meters will be installed yearly for 5 years, at a fee of
LS5 each, replacing customers' own meters when defective.
6.        "Other Fees and Charges" are based on EPEF's own forecasts
to 1976, thereafter increasing slightly to reflect the growing popu-
[ation served. "Non-Operating and Previous Years' Revenues" likewise
increase in proportion to sales.
7.        Under the heading of expenses, "Personnel" is forecast to
increase at 10% annually to 1976 and 6% thereafter. Of these per-
centages, 3% reflects price inflation and the remainder growth in
numbers.
6.        "Maintenance and MAterials" are calculated each year at
about 0.5% of the value of the gross fixed assets at the beginning
of the preceding year, excluding land and also the tunnels, for which
maintenance is carried out at extended intervals and capitalized. The
rate is low because of the large element of mains replacement in the
capital program.
9.        Of present pumping costs, the portion representing pumping
to increase the flow at the source is deemed to double by 1974, then
taper off to nil when the undergroune dam is finished.  Later, this
pumping recommences and intensifies as peak consumption approaches the
new capacity of the spring. The remaining pumping, in the high level
distribution network, is assumed to grow at 6% a year, tapering off
to 3% as the available high land is built up. Power rate increases of
10% every 4 years are assumed.
10.       Vehicle and transport expenses, and heating, lighting and
miscellaneous administration expenses increase annually at various
rates depending on their nature. Expenses of new connections are
projected to maintain the same proportion of the revenues relating
to this activity, as at present.
11.       "Non-Ocerating and Previous Years' Expenses" are projected
as increasing in proportion to sales.  Contributions to the Bad Debts
Provision are estimated as builaing it up to approximately 1% of out-
eFanuing consumers' accounts.  The Retirement Provision contributions
are projected as d¾sappearing after five years since this provision
relates only to older employees not covered by social security.
12.       A provision for contingencies is added in projections,
r-sinx- alfter 3 years to a level equivalent to 5% of expenses other
tAan depreciation.



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 4 pages
13.       Depreciation charges for existing assets are deemed to
continue at present rates, though reducing slightly in total as assets
become fully depreciated.  For new assets, the following annual rates
are assumed:-
Tunnel, works at spring                           1.25%
Mains and pipes                                   2.5 %
Reservoirs                                        3   %
Pumping stations                                  6   %
Communications system, opexrational equipment   10   %
Cash Flow Statements
14.       Capital contributions from new consumers are projected at the
minimum present charge of LS75 each. Government contributions are
estimated to be as detailed in para 6.17 of the main report.
15.       Investment costs outside the project are based on a specific
program up to 1977. Thereafter an investment by EPEF of LS3 million a
year is assumed plus LS1 million in 1978 to cover the rehabilitation
of the existing tunnel.
Balance Sheets
1b.       Fixed assets are not revalued, in view of the price escalation
contained in the cost estimates for upcoming investments which make up
the bulk of the rate base.
17.       "Investments - Housing Loans" reflect an activity which has
ceased, and are projected to disappear by 1975. The contribution to
the municipality is assumed to be unchanged.
18.       Stocks of materials are assumed to run down to LS2.5 million
at the ena of 1976, thereafter building up again to about LS7.5 million
in 1982. As part of the run-down, about LS12 million worth of materials are
forecast to be used in the project (including LS4 million on order at
December 31, 1972).
19.       Receivables due from consumers are forecast to reduce from
7 months'revenues equivalent to 5 months' equivalent over the next 3
years, on the assumption of a speed-up in billing. Outstanding
instalments of water right and connection charges are assumed at a
level equal to one year's sales of water rights.
20.       Advance payments and other receivables are difficult to fore-
cast; they are arbitrarily assumed to fluctuate by about 10% of the rise
or fall in the following year's capital expenditure.
21.       On the liabilities side of the balance sheet, reserves and
provisions have been dealt with in earlier paragraphs. "Consumers'
Deposits and Advance Payments" are assumed to increase by LS50 a year



ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 4 pages
for each new consumer and by LS30 representing deposits received when
10,000 customers' meters are rmplaced (whether defective or not) by
EPEF's own meters, each year for ten years. Amounts due to suppliers
and others are projected at the equivalent of two month's operating
expenses, other than depreciation; and retention money at 10% of
work-in-progress.



35 oo                          3600v                           37-00                            33
rz'  i-a zX-^                   T    U    R    K    E    Y
;           0 ' ' 4                                   ,                  / -'/                          \ < --- _~~~~~~~~/ 
-3700'                           !                                                                         Y                               37600
3600                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~360O0'
SYRIA
44              4te/ill  v/<                             It            DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BARADA AND ORONTES RIVER BASINS
Boundaries of River Basns
I\t J                     sp/'\  Xi Homo  ~~--,_> -400- Annual Isohyets in Millineters
ai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                          R iF )tn \fie,s 30
35'00
--    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ZII~~~~~ ~Salt Lakes
lortaiA  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                   vS.oanpn and Modflats
i                                -    Majon Roods
tA4                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Othsen Road
-, Yea2_/ j  /10Xm\0S t z   __,    _ Internhtional Boondanies
14                    El Xw6                                                            Irrigation Projents
I   EL GHAB SCHEME
2   HOMS -HAMA SCHEME
3   BARADA-AWAJ SCHEME
ft~~~~~~~~~~~nv t:                                                              0  20  0000SA        00  90  i
KILOMETERS
38;00'                        39' '00
33'00
by:;  un                           MAP, /       AJJ  2    0i A M
I S  R A E L                     |DrC~9-   S F k 
JORDAN          ta,tO',      DMAJ
B     \;2 1 - <  \ ;   /   J O R D A N I   g Q   SAtUDI  ARABIA  <  
- - - -TRLCE trNF 1e4  0
35n 'Do'V                                                       370'                            ln






S~~~~~~~¶                                               -'---                     17                            rn-u-;-                       -    C   - 9-~~;>
-gW  74                                    100                                                             '  Oo   \ , 
. ~ ~  ~ I- XK                        -s_\,I                                                  -    _'          '        -
_-_     j~~~r00                                                                             -2  t-N                              0504    ,
4.4
_ -                                                 W          r     r    '                                                                                        < r050  0  's<o
050                                  .4\             B         T          /         K                                              -     >__  _
~~~~,> ~ ~     ~     ~      4                                 .4 4vrdmej4/                   
00                                         .4) Deroro        J                                                                         \
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.1
-00
,o00 ~ ~   ~    M.
DL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Dx to yg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KI. TR
MILES
SYR IA
DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
METROPOLITAN AREA OF DAMASCUS
%, P p.-d R--v  cm
A    Proposed Pj-ep,g Stra ens|
*    Proposes Reservoirs                                                         csa5- /Y<Lr    r5YRIA           t
A^    Existing Pjrepieg Staton,                                                                     2 tp'0 tuANv   A0CS a R
* Exitig Reseroir
Es sting Walr, Mom.05-
|SZERoad ys                                                                   <p        ,:    EqrA         ,.0   o<=    
B- Roodory pf D--m&soos MLn cipa ity                                                       0. =        Ž         M              -
Co_roins 50 Moets I -terool                                                              tq     I.
3 C *    -.5       -                       *-. x o  '' -  " H iO0TUPRAPOEt r C L i = = |



