CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 401 SYR
Project Agreement
(Damascus Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES EAUX DE FIGEH
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 401 SYR
Project Agreement
(Damascus Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES EAUX DE FIGEH
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES EAUX DE FIGEH (hereinafter called EPEF).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Syrian Arab Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that EPEF agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EPEF, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to EPEF on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS EPEF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EPEF shall carry out Part B of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿4
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist EPEF in the administration of Part B of
the Project, EPEF shall within six months after the date of this Agreement or
such other period of time as shall be agreed with the Association, establish a Project
Unit under EPEF's technical director or its Directeur G'ndral and employ qualified
technical staff for it.
Section 2.03. In order to assist EPEF in the preparation of plans,
specifications and bidding documents for the reservoirs under Part B of the Project,
the administration of contracts for and the supervision of the construction of the
source development, tunnel, reservoir, telecommunications, and distribution works
under Part B of the Project, EPEF shall employ before concluding such contracts
engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Associati,n.
Section 2.04. In carrying out construction works under Part B of the Project,
EPEF shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) EPEF undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by EPEF
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, EPEF shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for Part B of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) EPEF shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction and


﻿5
procurement schedules for Part B of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   EPEF: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financ9d out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in Part B of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine Part B of the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such informa-ion as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part B of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. EPEF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPEF shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. EPEF shall take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire,
as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in Part B of the Project.
Section 2.10. EPEF shall within six months after the date of this Agreement
or such other period of time as shall be agreed with the Association, formulate
and submit to the Association for approval a program to reduce the quantity of
water unaccounted-for, including, but not limited to, checking all consumers' meters
and, if necessary, replacing them, and thereafter promptly carry out such program.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPEF
Section 3.01. EPEF shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent staff.
Section 3.02. EPEF shall at all times take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges which
are necessary or useful in its operations.


﻿6
Section 3.03. EPEF shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair
its facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices.
Section 3.04. EPEF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. EPEF shall commission a study of its organization and operating
procedures and of its accounting system, submit the findings to the Association,
and promptly carry out the recommendations agreed upon between the Association
and EPEF.
Section 3.06. EPEF shall at all times be adequately staffed with experienced
and qualified personnel.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EPEF shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. EPEF shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of EPEF and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPEF shall
not incur any debt, other than debt required to finance the carrying out of Part
B of the Project, unless EPEF's net revenue from its operations for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
immediately prior to such incurrence, whichever sevenue is the greater, shall be


﻿7
at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt incurred by EPEF, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)          "Debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or guarantee
agreement providing for such debt.
(iii)        "Net revenue from its operations" means gross revenue of EPEF
from all sources, excluding revenues from the sale of water rights,
adjusted to take account of rates for the sale of water in effect
at the time of incurrence of debt even though such rates were
not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve months' period
to which such income relates, less all operating and
administrative expenses, including provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision for depreciation and interest and other charges
on debt.
(iv)         "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund contributions, if any),
interest and other charges on debt.
(v)         Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by EPEF
for the purpose of servicing such debt.
Section 4.04. (a) EPEF shall, in accordance with the Borrower's Code
d'Exploitation des Services d'Eau en Syrie of 1966, take all such action as shall
be necessary to set and maintain tariffs at such levels as shall be required to produce
an annual rate of return gradually increasing during the years 1978 through 1 98 1,
so as to reach not less than 7-1/2% in 1982 and the years thereafter, on EPEF's
average net fixed assets in operation, such assets to be reasonably valued in
accordance with a consistently applied method or methods of valuation or
revaluation acceptable to the Association.


﻿8
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the annual rate of return will be calculated by relating EPEF's
net operating income for the fiscal year in question to the
average value of EPEF's net fixed assets in operation;
(ii)        the term "net operating income" means gross operating revenue,
including revenues from the sale of water rights, less all operating
and administrative expenses including adequate maintenance,
straight-line depreciation, taxes and levies, if any, or any
payments in lieu thereof, but without deduction of interest or
other charges on debt; and
(iii)       the term "fixed assets" includes any fixed assets used by EPEF
in its operation, and the term "average net fixed assets in
operation" means: (1) the value of EPEF's gross fixed assets
in operation less accumulated depreciation at the beginning of
the calendar year plus (2) the value of EPEF's gross fixed assets
in operation less accumulated depreciation at the end of the
year in question, divided by two; provided, however, that when
a major asset shall be brought into operation during the year,
the value of such asset shall be included in the foregoing
computation in respect of that part of the year during which
such asset has been in operation.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the foregoing, EPEF shall take
all such action as shall be necessary to set and maintain tariffs at such levels as
shall be required to produce at all times an annual operating income, excluding
revenues from the sale of water rights, which covers the annual operating expenses,
including depreciation and interest and commitment charge, if any, one debt.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and EPEF shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and EPEF shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of EPEF and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.


﻿9
Section 5.02. The Association and EPEF shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
EPEF of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. EPEF shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of EPEF and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of EPEF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify EPEF of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed


﻿10
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For EPEF:
Etablissement Public des Eaux
de Figeh (EPEF)
Damascus
Syria
Cable address:
FIGEDAM
Damascus
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of EPEF may be taken or executed by the General Manager of EPEF or such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. EPEF shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of EPEF, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by EPEF pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one Anstrument.


﻿*                                 11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Dieter Hartwich
Director
Country Programs Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES EAUX DE FIGEH
By /s/ Haissam Kelani
AuLIthorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    Non-Syrian contractors shall not be required to register in Syria as a condition
of bidding for any contract. Where said registration is required of a non-Syrian
contractor after he has been awarded the contract, the Borrower shall take such
action as may be necessary to ensure his registration.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works or equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, EPEF shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, EPEF shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said consultants,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, promptly inform EPEF and the
Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise EPEF of any
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for civil works or equipment, EPEF or
the Borrower, respectively, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its


﻿13
execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.05 of this Agreement, promptly inform EPEF and the Borrower, and state the
reasons for such determination and advise EPEF or the Borrower, respectively,
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I
to the Development Credit Agreement.
4.    With respect to any contract included in Category IV (c) for spare parts and
other items required to be compatible with existing equipment and such minor
items as are, for reasons of economy, customarily procured without competitive
bidding, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $5,000 and, in respect
of all such contracts, the equivalent of not more than $50,000 in the aggregate,
such contracts are exempted from the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.05 of this Agreement and in Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement.


