CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 401 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Damascus Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 401 SYR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Damascus Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
0
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 22, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1973, between SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and Part
B of the Project by Etablissement Public des Eaux de Figeh, a state enterprise
of the Borrower (hereinafter called EPEF) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EPEF part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and EPEF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   the words "the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;


﻿4
(d)   the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02; and
(e)   the following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and EPEF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EPEF pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
(if any) to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "EPEF" means the Etablissement Public des Eaux de Figeh, a state
enterprise of the Borrower, under the operational supervision of the Borrower's
Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs, established pursuant to Decree No. 19?
of the Borrower, dated April 7, 1958, and includes any successor thereto;
(d)   "Special Unit" means the Special Unit to be e.;Lilished in the
Borrower's Ministry of Rural and Municipal Affairs for the purpose of carrying
out Part A of the Project, pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(e)   "Project Unit" means the Project Unit to be established in EPEF for
the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project, pursuant to Section 2.02 of
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annuat installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1983 and ending June 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Directeur Gnral of EPEF is designated with respect to
Part B of the Project as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
0


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project and
shall cause Part B of the Project to be carried out by EPEF with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend fourteen million two hundred thousand
dollars ($14,200,000) of the proceeds of the Credit to EPEF under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and EPEF under terms
and conditions (including, inter alia, an interest rate of six per cent (6%) per annum,
a repayment period of twenty five years with a grace period of up to five years)
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause EPEF to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EPEF to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, such additional funds
as shall be required to finance all expenditures of EPEF under the Project. The
funds so provided shall be deemed to be a grant from the Borrower to EPEF.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the direction and coordination
of the water pollution control studies and the sewerage studies included in Part
A of the Project, the Borrower shall establish a Special Unit satisfactory to the
Association within its Ministry of Rural and Municipal Affairs.


﻿7
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
pollution control studies under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for Part A of the Project to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services for Part A of the Project financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
0              (b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in Part A of the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Part
A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿8
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part
A of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part A of the Project or any sub-part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to enable EPEF to set and maintain such rates for the consumption
of water as shall be required for EPEF to comply with the provisions of Section
4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall permit EPEF to retain in each year from
its funds (i) amounts required to provide reasonable working capital, to cover
appropriate maintenance and renewal of its facilities and (ii) amounts needed to
finance the investments required during such year to meet the demand for water.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by EPEF of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of EPEF
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of EPEF and,


﻿9
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying oat any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by EPEF of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
'Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately


﻿10                                          0
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   EPEF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(b)   Decree No. 192 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the ability of EPEF to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set
forth in the Project Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and EPEF.
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
EPEF have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and EPEF, respectively, have been duly auL'horized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿*                                  11
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly auth  -ized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, EPEF, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of EPEF in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and EPEF,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
EPEF in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date December 3 1, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
and those of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
25 years years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall bt. the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Municipal and
Rural Affairs
Damascus
Syria
Cable address:
Ministry of Municipal
and Rural Affairs
Damascus


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Haissam Kelani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Dieter Hartwich
Director
Country Programs Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Equipment (Part A)              20,000
(a)  Produced in Syria                          100% of ex-factory
cost
(b)  Imported                                   100% of foreign
expenditures
II.  Consultants' Services          780,000          100% of foreign
and Training (Part A)                          expenditures
111.  Civil Works (Part B)         6,500,000         55% of total expendi-
tures (representing
the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
IV. Pipes, Pumps, Tele-            4,000,000
conununication Equip-
ment, Spare Parts
and other Equipment
(Part B)
(a)  Produced in Syria                          100% of ex-factory
cost
(b)  Imported                                   100% of foreign
expenditures
(c)  Locally procured                           55% of total expendi-
tures (representing
the estimated foreign
exchange component)
V.   Consultants' Services         1,000,000         100% of foreign
and Training (Part B)                          expenditures
VI.  Unallocated                   2,700,000
TOTAL             15,000,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures for goods produced or procured in, or services
supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category V on account of expenditures
for Consultants' services and training incurred after July 31, 1972 in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000;
(b)   expenditures made in respect of Categories I and 11 until the Borrower
has established the Special Unit pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
0


﻿15
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and in Section 2.05 of
the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category III
or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Categories, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Categories may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts and subparts:
Part A:     Pollution Control and Sewerage Studies
(i)         Studies of measures to reduce pollution (a) in the Orontes
River, including sewage treatment facilities which may be
required at Horns and Hama, (b) in the Barada River,
including sewerage of Damascus.
(ii)        Purchase of equipment for use in the studies.
(iii)       Staff Training.
Part B:     Damascus Water Supply
(i)         Construction of facilities and installation of equipment
including the supply and installation of pumps, to increase
and improve the yield at Figeh spring.
(ii)        Construction of a tunnel about 15 km long from the
Figeh spring to Damascus.
(iii)       Construction of storage reservoirs with a total capacity
of about 75,000 m3.
(iv)        Construction of a new pumping station and renovation
of existing pumping stations.
(v)         Installation of about 530 km   of water mains in the
distribution system.
(vi)        Purchase of operating and maintenance equipment, and
spare parts, including telecommunications equipment.
(vii)       Staff Training.
(viii)      Engineering and management consulting services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


