Domnt of
The World Ban
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
Report No. 6650
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 1501-IVC)
February 17, 1987
Western Africa Region
Transportation Division 1
This document has a ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Office ol OtemCe.wd
OpwatmnW E(valiatn
February 17, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Cote d'Tvoire
Feeder Road and Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 1501-IVC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Republic of Cote d'Ivoire Feeder Road
and Highway MSaintenance Project (Loan 150l-IVC)" prepared by the
Western Africa Regional Office. Under the modified system for
project performance auditing, further evaluation of this project
by the Operations Evaluations Department has not been made.
'
Attachment
| This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance
of their o(6cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authboiasion.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 1501-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Datat Sheets.....                                      ii
Higblights....... .       .                                  iv
I.  INTRODUCTION...... 499***9*999**9.9 *** *99** &               1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND APPRAISAL.................         2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION       ................                 7
IV.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION .....................         .. .    12
V.  CONSULTANTS' PERRMANANC................                     14
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE......      ............            16
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE....................                         17
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOM4ENDATIONS.........                     19
TABLES
1  Appraisal and Actual Cost Es t         imates                   21
2   Disbursements by Ca          t    e    g    o     r    y       22
3 Schedule of Disbursements                                        23
4   Economic Rates of Return for Selected Feeder Roads.......      24
5   Economic Reevaluation of Road Betterment Component......9      25
MAP
IBRD 12899R



REPUBLIC OF COTE D IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 1501-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
1.        This report presents a completion evaluation of the Feeder
Roads and Highway Maintenance Project financed by Loan 1501-IVC for
US$29.0 a Which was approved on December 13, 1977. US$2.0 m was can-
celled from the Loan as of December 31, 1985. The report was prepared
by the Western Africa Region.
2.        Only about 502 of the project road works were completed
because of serious difficulties encountered during execution.  These
difficulties provided a number of lessons for the Bank in preparing and
supervising future works.
3.        In accordance with the revised procedures for project perform-
ance audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited
by OED staff. The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments;
however, none were received.



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF OOTE D'IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 1501-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEETS
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original            Actual or
Item                                      Expectation      Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                                   63.2                59.4
Cost Over/Underrum (S)                                              --                  -.
Financing (US$ million)
IBRD Loan Amount                                                   29.0                29.0
Disbursed                                                                    27.0 /a
Cancelled                                                                     2.0
Repaid                                                                        8.9
Outstanding                                                                  18.1
Completion of Physical Components (date)                           10/81               06/85
Proportion Actually Completed by above date (%)                    30%                  50%
Economic Rate of Return (4)                                        29%                 n.a.
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(U5$ million)
FY78    FY79      FY80    FY81    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85         FY86
Appraisal Est.            6.7     15.5     20.9    25.9    29.0
Actual                      0      4.0     13.0    17.5    21.6    22.3    22.3    24.5    27.0 /a
Actual as % of Est.       na       25       62      67       74      76      76      84       93
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                                Original        Amended            Actual
Conception Date                                                                  09/24/75 /b
Negotiations                                                                     10/03-07/77
Board Approval of the Loan                                                        12/13/77
Loan Agreement Date                                                               12/22/77
Effectiveness Date                                                                10/17/78
Closing Date                                   06/30/82        09/30/84           06/30/85
Borrower                                                                  Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Executing Agency:                Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism LC
Follow-on Project                                                            Highway Sector Project
/a  Last disbursement made on November 14, 1985; undisbursed balance of US$2,015,985.06 cancelled
as of December 31, 1985.
/b  First mentioned in the project files; project had its roots in the Third and Fifth Highway
Projects as explained in the text.
/c Now called the Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Posts and Telecommunications.



- iii -
MISSION DATA, La
Carried
Out                   No. of       Mission                          Date of
Item            By   fb  Mo. /Year    Persons    Composition /c    Man Weeks Ld    Report
Identification      R)GWA       Note /e
Preparation         RIWA
Appraisal            D A        11-12/76         3      E, H (2)                9.0        )
)12/01/77
Post Appraisal      HQ          03/77            2      E, H                    3.0        )
Supervision  1      EQ          03/78            1      E                       0.6         04/10/78
Supervision  2      HQ          07/78            2      K, H                    1.5         08/1b/78
Supervision  3      RMWA        10/78            1      E                                   11/06/78
Supervision  4      RHWA        02/79            2      E, H                                02/06/79
Supervision  5 Le   HQ          03/79            2      E, H                   0.2          04/19/79
Supervision  6      mmWA        06/79            1      E                                   07/20/79
Supervision  7 /e  HQ           09/79            1      3                      0.5          10/02/79
Supervision  8      aMWA        07/80            1      H                                   07/11/80
Supervision  9      HQ          11/80            2      E, H                   0.5          12/15/80
Supervision 10      HQ          02/81            2      K, H                   2.0          03/19/81
Supervision U       RMWA        04/81            2      i, H                                04/28/81
Supervision 12      RMW         07/81            2      E, H                                09/21/81
Supervision 13      HQ          04-06/82         3      E, 8 (2), F            6.0          07/07/82
Supervision 14      EQ          10/82            3      3, H, F                 2.0         11/18/82
Supervision 1S      HQ          04/83            3      E (2), H               3.0          07/30/83
Supervision 16      HQ          04/84            2      B, H                   3.0          06/22/84
Supervision 17      EQ          06/85            1      B                                      f
Supervision 18      HQ          02/86            2      R, H                   0.5          04/21/86
/a  Excludes brief visits for which supervision reports were not prepared.
/b RtWA prepared, appraised and supervised the feeder road component up to aid-1981.
Ic  3 - Project Economist; F - Financial Analyst; H   Highway Engineer
d Amount of time spent on the project by RMWA is not sbown in the fi'es; thus, the total
supervision time for the project is substantially understated.
/e No Porm 590 completed.
/f No report on files.
WAPT1
May 1986



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 1501-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.        The Government did not complete the project as originally
appraised because of major shortcomings in the executing agency which
was eventually disbanded by the Government (para 3.11). On the basis of
road mileage built, the project was only about 50% completed (pa-
ra 3.16). As the Government was reluctant to provide local funding for
further road works, About US$2.0 m was cancelled as of December 31, 1985
(para 3.22). These works were included as one of the components in a new
project, Highway Sector Loan II, approved in June 1985 (para 6.05).
2.        The combining at appraisal of the two major components of the
project, which had been prepared separately by the Feeder Roads Unit
(RMWA) at Abidjan and the head office Highways Division, created diffi-
culties in coordinatirg supervision within the Bank (para 7.01). This,
along with inadequate supervision by consultants, led to a diversion of
project resources and use of overly high design standards which were not
detected until 1981 (para 5.06).
3.        In 1982, the Government set up a Commission of Inquiry which
led to the .txecuting agency being dissolved. The Bank concluded that
the Commission had carried out a thorough investigation and agreed to
regularize the situation by incorporating a posteriori into the project,
expenditures for justifiable road works carried out outside the approved
work program (paras 3.13-3.14).
4.        The inefficient execution and adoption of excessive design
standards for force account works, combined with the executing agency's
failure to maintain project roads once completed, caused the project to
produce poor economic results. Re-estimated economic rates of return
for those project roads for which recent traffic data are available, are
mostly negative or marginal (paras 4.05 and 4.09).
5.        The execution of the project provides a number of lessons for
the Bank (para 8.04).
First: Although initial Bank supervision was adequate due to
the presence of a Feeder Roads Section in the Regional Mission
in Abidjan, supervision became far less frequent when this
section was closed, and when carried out, was often combined
with other tasks. Since feeder roads and maintenance projects
that are scattered over large areas of a country require



- v -
extensive and time-consuming supervision, the Bank should only
approve such projects if it is willing to commit the necessary
staff resources to oversee them on a continuing basis.
Second: The limitations of executing works by force account
need to be assessed more realistically.  Force account does
not appear a dependable way to execute works if the executing
agency lacks good management and skilled personnel. In fact,
under such circumstances the risks of using force account is
much greater than executing works by contract.
Third: The consultant's contract should have covered all the
project works.  Moreover, in view of the weaknesses of the
implementing agency perceived during the execution of the
project, it should have been extended to cover the delay in
project execution and to permit an orderly transition of key
responsibilities to local staff.
fourth: Design standards, plans and specifications should be
prepared and agreed for force account works before these works
are allowed to start.
Fifth:  Clear cut accounting and auditing controls should be
set up at appraisal.
Sixth:  The organization for follow-up maintenance on works
completed should be agreed before commencing works.
6.        Supervision responsibility for the project was divided between
two Bank units with unfortunate consequences (para 7.01).  The Bank's
supervision standards were not maintained (para 8.05).



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 1501-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The above project was the sixth for highways in C8te d'Ivoire.
The first two projects were for road construction while the Third
Highway Project (Loan 837-IVC, UJS$17.5 m, 1972) consisted of a four-year
road maintenance and betterment program which was extended under the
maintenance  component  of  the  subject  project.   The  Fourth  Highway
Project (Credit 406-IVC, US$7.5 m, 1973) consisted of road construction
and a study of feeder roads which formed the basis of a rural develop-
ment project.  The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1161-IVC, US$43 m, 1975)
included pavement strengthening and road construction, and a study of
feeder road requirements upon which the feeder road component of the
subject project was based.  This project was followed by two highway
sector projects (Loans 1914-IVC, US$100 m, in 1980 and 2581-IVC,
US$110 m, in 1985) making C8te d'Ivoire the Bank's largest borrower for
highways in Western Africa.
1.02      In 1977, the road network consisted of 45,200 km of which
21,150 km were feeder and tertiary roads and 11,000 km were unclassified
tracks and other low standard roads. A major effort was being made to
improve the road network by concentrating on pavement strengthening, new
road construction, improvement of highway maintenance, and construction
and improvement of feeder roads. While notable progress had been made
on the primary and secondary network, improvement and maintenance of
feeder roads had lagged. The feeder roads were primarily dry weather
roads, mostly with earth surfacing, which became impassable during the
wet season. Maintenance of feeder roads, up to the time of the project,
had been limited primarily to reshaping only the most heavily trafficked
feeder roads of the classified network while most of the unclassified
roads were not maintained at all. The project was originally designed
as a feeder road project to remedy these shortcomings. It was prepared
and appraised by the Bank's Regional Mission in West Africa (RMWA). The
project was to constitute a major step towards meeting the Government's
objectives regarding the maintenance and improvement of the feeder road
network.
1.03      The maintenance component which was originally scheduled as a
separate FY79 project, was added to the feeder road project following
its appraisal. The reasons given were (a) funding of road maintenance
under the Third Highway Project would run jut in mid-1978, thus requir-
ing the follow-up project tco be advanced; and (b) the maintenance
project was closely interrelated with the feeder road project as it



-2-
involved continuation of technical assistance for consultants and
training, and for construction of additional workshop facilities. The
decision to combine the two projects into a single project after ap-
praisal, delayed by several months the processing of the feeder road
component, and created internal problems in the Bank as regards supervi-
sion of the overall project as discussed below.
1.04      Execution of the project was the responsibility of the Minis-
try of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism (MPWTCU).
Within the Central Directorate of Public Works in MPWTCU, the Director-
ate of Road Maintenance (DER) was responsible for the feeder road
component, and the Directorate of Periodic Maintenance (DERP) for the
maintenance component.  Equipment maintenance came under the Central
Directorate of Equipment (DCMTP). As a condition for disbursement under
the feeder road program, the Government established a Feeder Road
Section within DER. As a result of problems within DERP, the Government
dissolved it in mid-1983. Subsequently, further organizational changes
were made in the MPWTCU; it is currently known as the Ministry of Public
Works, Construction, Posts and Telecommunications.
1.05      The information for this report was obtained from the Apprais-
al and President's Reports for the Feeder Road and Highway Maintenance
Project (Reports Numbers 1611-IVC of December 1977 and P-2129-IVC of
November 23, 1977, respectively), Bank supervision reports, Bank and
RMWA files, the final report of the Government's Commission of Inquiry
into the execution of the project of December 1983, and interviews with
Bank staff formerly associated with the project.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification and Preparation
2.01      The maintenance and feeder road components of the project were
identified and prepared by headquarters and RMWA staff during the
execution of the Third, Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects. The Third
Highway Project, which consisted of a four-year road maintenance and
betterment program for unpaved primary and secondary roads, i-acluded
funds for four regional workshops and training of mechanics. However,
only three shops were built because of considerably higher costs than
provided for under the project.
2.02      The Fourth Highway Project included a study of feeder roads in
cotton growing areas in the north, and most of the work recommended was
carried out under the Cotton Areas Rural Development Project approved in
January 1975. The Fifth Highway Project provided a complementary study
of feeder roads in the rest of the country, with consideration to be
given to the institutional arrangements for the administration of this
program.  The study was completed in 1976 and outlined the need for
improving and maintaining an additional 6,800 km of priority feeder
roads over a five-year period.



2.03      The feeder road component was originally prepared as a sepa-
rate project by the Feeder Roads Section in the RMWA, which had the
responsibility for preparing, appraising and supervising feeder road
projects   throughout  West   Africa.    In   a  project  brief   dated
June 28, 1976, prepared by RMWA staff, the project was noted as being
based on the ongoing consultant's study. It was conceived strictly as a
feeder road project consisting of the construction and improvement of
1,000 km of feeder roads and the maintenance of 1,800 km of feeder roads
for three years.  Equipment for that purpose and technical assistance
was  included.   A very  tentative  estimate  of  the cost  amounted  to
US$16.5 million.
2.04      Key issues highlighted in the brief included (a) whether or
not to expand the scope of the study to include more roads; (b) the
question of executing agency and method of execution; (c) the minimum
criteria for selecting the design standard for road width; (d) the
criteria for assessing improvement or construction priorities; and
(e) the limited opportunities in Cote d'Ivoire for developing labor
intensive operations.
Appraisal
2.05      The feeder road project was appraised in November/December
1977 by EMWA.  In a telex dated December 20, 1977, RMWA recommended a
project consisting of the improvement of 4,000 km of feeder roads by six
force account brigades and two local contractor brigades, plus technical
assistance for implementation and monitoring. The foreign exchange cost
was estimated at US$20 m. RMWA recommended that if a follow-up project
to the on-going maintenance project (Third Highway Project) was not
forthcoming, an extension of the consultants' contract, which was due to
expire in May 1977, providing technical assistance for maintenance,
should be included in the project.   It also noted that MPWTCU was
insisting that all feeder roads be built to 6 m surface width irrespec-
tive of traffic volumes.
2.06      At about the same time as the feeder road project was ap-
praised, a mission from the Bank's headquarters, which had just super-
vised the Third Highway Project, raised the question of preparing a
possible FY78 highway maintenance project to pick up the on-going
project or to attach it as a component in the feeder road project. The
Issues Paper for the feeder road project dated January 17, 1977, was
prepared jointly by RMWA and headquarters. It noted that the lending
program provided US$20 million for a Feeder Road Project in FY77 but,
since the on-going maintenance program should be continued, it proposed
that a maintenance component of a maximum of US$10 million be combined
with the proposed feeder road project.
2.07      Important issues related to the feeder road component were:
(a) as proposed condition for Bank financing, it was requested that the
Government assure the Bank that it would maintain feeder roads not
included in the project; (b) civil works to be executed by contract to
be carried out by contractors selected on the basis of competitive



bidding following local advertising; and (c) the Bank should press for
4.5 m surface width for the lowest trafficked roads.  The Issues Paper
stated that a short post-appraisal of the feeder road component would be
necessary as the appraisal revealed that the consultants' report needed
significant modifications and corrections related to the cost estimate,
treffic data and economic justification.
2.08      As regards the maintenance component, the Issues Paper stated
that the last headquarters mission had not only supervised the ongoing
projects but had prepared with the Government a future project for the
continuation  of  Bank  assistance  for maintenance.   The mission  had
defined action required by the consultants and Government to prepare it.
As the Bank had not yet approved a maintenance pro.ject for FY77, (it was
then scheduled for FY79), the mission could not hold conclusive discus-
sions with Government on the project composition and its financial
contribution.   The collected  data would  allow writing  an appraisal
report on this component although a post-appraisal mission would be
needed. The main issues raised were (a) the need to continue existing
consultancy services for maintenance; (b) the importance of coordinating
the feeder road and maintenance components because they were closely
interrelated; (c) the shortage of trained local staff and the need to
expand present output; and (d) the implications of the substantial
increase in local costs financing required by the project and the
proposal that the Bank should aim for the Government to finance all
operating costs.
2.09      At the Decision Meeting of January 21, 1977, it was agreed
that (a) local competitive procedures were not acceptable for the feeder
road component as only one local firm could qualify, and as there were a
number of foreign firms in the country, ICB would be required; (b) as
the consultants had performed well on the ongoing maintenance project,
their contract could be extended for the maintenance component and their
services used on the feeder road component if the Government so request-
ed; (c) the maintenance program should be further evaluated to ensure
that it was not overly ambitious; (d) the concept of "counterpart
personnel" should be dropped and replaced by "trainees" to be trained
for various facets of the program; (e) local operating costs would not
be financed; (f) an inventory of feeder roads to be maintained by the
Government would be prepared; and (g) exceptions to a surface width for
feeder roads over 4-5 m would have to be justified.
2.10      Following the Decision Meeting, regional management commented
that the main issue had not been treated in the Issues Paper, namely,
whether the feeder road project should be combined with the follow-up
maintenance project.  In a reply dated January 31, it was noted that
both Programs and Projects had agreed that continuation of technical
assistance to general maintenance, and building and equipping workshops
were essential for the feeder road project.  It was also deemed most
important to ensure a continuation of the on-going maintenance project.
2.11      The combined project was post-appraised in March 1977 by staff
from  headquarters  and  RMWA.   In  the  follow-up  Issues  Paper  dated



March 22, prepared by headquarters staff which covered only the mainte-
nance component, its scope was shaped as eventually approved. The main
issues raised were the need to obtain satisfactory assurances from the
Government as to staffing and training requirements and its iinancial
contribution. The Government strongly urged the Bank to finance operat-
ing costs of the betterment units and to finance retroactively an
extension of the consultant contract which was expiring in May 1977.
The Paper noted that the Government was financing a consultant's study
to promote domestic civil works contractors, and in the meantime, the
feeder road component would provide sbort-term assistance by giving
local contractors the opportunity to bid on some of this work.
2.12      At a post-appraisal Decision Meeting, on March 31, 1977, the
recommendations of the mission were accepted, except for retroactive
financing of consultants' costs. The meeting concluded that these costs
from the termination of their contract in May 1977 to signature of the
loan agreement should be borne by the Government. Early in April, an
RMWA mission arrived in headquarters to participate in completing the
yellow cover appraisal report which was issued on May 20.  The only
major unresolved issue noted was a lack of the Government's commitment
regarding its financial contribution to the project.
2.13      Negotiations on the project took place from October 3-7, 1977,
with staff from RMWA participating.   Agreements were reached as to
(a) the reorganization of MPWTCU to more effectively carry out the pro-
ject; (b) disbursements to include a portion of local operating expendi-
tures; (c) feeder roads design standards to be restricted to between 4.5
and 6 m widths unless a greater width could be justified; and (d) crite-
ria for selecting feeder  roads  for improvement.   Loan 1501-IVC was
approved on December 13, 1977 for US$29 m. It was signed on December 22
but did not become effective until October 17, 1978 because of delays on
the part of the Government in submitting the legal opinion, caused in
part by a loss of the documents in transmitting them between Government
offices. A condition of disbursement was that the Government set up a
feeder road section in the Ministry. The project was to be completed by
October 31, 1981.
Project Objectives and Description
2.14      The main objectives  of  the project were:   (a) to provide
better transport services to the rural population through improvement
and maintenance of feeder roads; (b) to strengthen betterment and
maintenance operations of primary and secondary roads started under the
Third Highway Project; and (c) to train Cote d'Ivoire staff to effi-
ciently carry out the tasks under (a) and (b).
2.15      The project consisted of:
(a) a 3-1/2 year program for the improvement and subsequent
maintenance of about 3,600 km of feeder roads;



- 6 -
(b) a 3-1/2 year program for betterment of about 900 km of unpaved
primary and secondary roads;
(c) construction of three regional workshops;
(d) purchase of equipment for: (i) six force account brigades for
the feeder road program; (ii) two force account brigades for
the betterment program; and (iii) three regional workshops;
and
(e)  technical assistance for:  (i) training local staff in plan-
ning, implementing and monitoring the feeder road improvement
and maintenance program; (ii) training DCMPT's personnel in
equipment maintenance and repair and assisting in the instal-
lation and organization of regional workshops; and (iii) a
study on modal traffic distribution.
The foreign exchange costs, including contingencies, of the two main
components of the project were US$17.6 m for the feeder roads and
US$11.2 m for the maintenance component, including the workshops.
2.16      The works under the feeder road component were to consist of
(a) improvements which would include clearing, reshaping and regravel-
ling selected road sections and reinforcing and building culverts and
other drainage structures; and (b) maintenance which would include
reshaping, filling potholes, cleaning of ditches and minor repairs to
drainage structures. Institution building was of primary importance in
the feeder road component. A capability was to be created in the new
Feeder Road Section set up under the project to (a) monitor the econom-
ic, engineering and social aspects of the project; (b) develop the
second and later years' work programs; (c) prepare physical and finan-
cial plans for the second and later years; and (d) prepare proposals for
a continuation of the prograi  after completion of the project.  Works
were to be executed by the six force account brigades provided under the
project plus two mechanized brigades provided by contractors.
2.17      The  works  under  the  maintenance  component,  described  as
betterment in the appraisal report, consisted of improving drainage
through the construction of culverts and small bridges, minor earth-
works, and gravelling.  Only in exceptional cases were the works to
include realignment and widening of the roadway.   Works were to be
executed by the existing three force account brigades provided under the
Third Highway Project plus two new force account brigades to be financed
by the project.
2.18      While the facilities of the MPWTCU training center set up
under the Third Highway Project had been improved and a flow of trained
mechanics was emerging, the appraisal report noted that there was still
a shortage of mechanics, operators and supervisors. The procurement of
equipment for the maintenance and feeder road components was thus to be
contingent on the satisfactory implementation of the training program
for mechanical staff. The work programs for each component had been



- 7 -
established for the first year, and the program for subsequent years was
to be submitted to the Bank for approval three months before the sched-
uled start of work for each year thereafter.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Progress up to 1982
3.01      Project execution got off to a slow start.  Although the
MPWTCU had received bids for the equipment in September 1977, three
months before the loan agreement was signed, awards were delayed by slow
evaluation and by differences between MPWTCU and the Government's
Central Tender Committee. Finally, awards were made and delivery was
substantially completed by June 1979. At the same time, final design
and bidding documents for roads to be constructed by contractors were.
completed. Thus, the feeder road and maintenance brigades were not able
to start work until the beginning of the dry season in September 1979,
about 18 months behind the appraisal schedule, a frequent problem
encountered in West Africa.
3.02      The training of local staff in planning,  implementing and
monitoring the feeder road and maiatenance components started in
March 1978, a few months behind schedule, while the training of mechani-
cal and operating personnel proceeded on schedule. Training delays were
largely avoided because the consultants on the previous maintenance
project were continued on the present project. Some delays, however,
were encountered in getting the modal traffic study underway. By the
end of 1979, the project was fully operational.
Progress up to the Completion Date
3.03      By the end of November 1981, one month after the project was
to have been completed, performance was reported by RMWA as being
"sluggish." The feeder road force account brigades were working largely
satisfactorily, but the maintenance brigades which were working on
regravelling less so, and in fact, one brigade had been assigned to
heavy construction work. The feeder road work by contract was noted as
"a fiasco" with the contractor obviously "incapable of performing." By
the end of 1981, the consultants had completed their contract and left
Cote d'Ivoire. By the end of April 1982, when the Bank's RMWA Feeder
Roads Section in Abidjan was closed and its responsibility iaanded over
to headquarters, even more serious problems came to light.
3.04      The  report  of a headquarters  mission dated  July 7, 1982,
indicated that up to April 1982, only about 1,100 km of feeder roads had
been built out of the 2,600 km in the project to be completed by force
account.  They had been gravelled to a width of 8 m rather than the
narrowcr widths required under the project. It was expected that only
about 1,300 km of roads out of the 2,600 km would be improved within
available funds. Concerning the 1,000 km of feeder roads to be built by



- 8 -
contract, two contracts with a local firm were terminated by the Govern-
ment, after only about 30 km had been built, because the contractor was
unable to provide equipment to finish the work. In December 1981, bids
had been received for another 93 km of feeder roads, but the contract
award was withheld by MPWTCU in view of the disappointinc, ;xperience
under the earlier contracts. Nevertheless, at the recommena- -on of the
mission, MTPTCU agreed to reconsider its position on feeder road con-
tracting and take the necessary steps to let several hundred km of
additional roads to contractors.
3.05      As regards the maintenance component, about 200 km had been
improved out of the 900 km in the project.  One reason for the low
output was the very high design standards to which the works were being
carried out. The roads were being upgraded to a 100 km/h design speed,
a formation width of 11 m and a gravel surface of 9 m; construction to
such standards required heavy earthworks and essentially resulted in the
construction of new roads.  These standards were far above the level
contemplated in the appraisal report which stated that the work would
consist mainly of regravelling, and that only in exceptional cases was
it to include realignment and widening (para 2.17).
3.06      The project provided for the construction and equipment of
three workshops  (San-Pedro, Man, Boundoukou).   The contract for the
buildings and equipment was awarded in 1979. Except for minor finishing
works, the buildings were completed and most of the equipment delivered
by the end of 1981.
3.07      The July 1982 mission also found that MPWTCU had diverted
Bank-financed equipment,  fuel, and supplies to non-project use.   It
concluded that there was a lack of Government control over finances
which had led to irregularities ir the allocation of expenses, procure-
ment procedures, and disbursements. About US$21.6 m of the US$29 m loan
had been disbursed. The mission estimated that project funds would be
exhausted by the end of 1982 except for construction of feeder roads by
contract. It recommended that the project be audited, and that the
closing date be postponed from mid-1982 to September 30, 1984 to permit
the  implementation  of  the  feeder  road  contracting  component.   The
project was listed as a problem project in the fall of 1982.
Commission of Inquiry
3.08      Late in 1982, MPWTCU suspended the senior professional in the
DERP in charge of project execution. He confirmed to a Bank mission in
October 1982 that he had carried out road works not covered by any
budget but claimed he had been ordered to do so by his superiors. He
also implied that project funds had been misused.
3.09      Earlier, the Bank had prepared terms of reference for an audit
by a local accounting firm but the Government instead proposed to
appoint a Commission of Inquiry to look at all aspects of project
execution. The Bank accepted the proposal because of the high level
composition of the Commission which included senior Government officials
outside MPWTCU. The Bank had some reservations as to how thoroughly the



- 9 -
inquiry would be conducted and indicated to the Government that if it
were not satisfied with the findings of the Commission, it would insist
on the appointment of external auditors.  In the meantime, the mission
recommended that (a) no disbursements be made under the project unless
strong supp rting evidence was provided; (b) disbursements be limited to
actual prbJ et works; and (c) the Bank assist MPWTCU in introducing
maintenance by contract.
3.10      The final report of the Commission of Inquiry was received in
the Bank in February 1984.  The Commission was chaired by a senior
official of the Ministry of Finance and included staff from the Minis-
tries of Public Works and Finance, and technical assistance staff.
Its report stated that a number of the project's records were either
incomplete, unclear or missing.  The report confirmed that substantial
diversion of project resources had taken place, in particular, project
funds were used to finance inputs for regravelling brigades that were
not part of the project but otherwise formed part of the project execut-
ing agencies' overall work program and were in accordance with project
objectives.
3.11      Diversion of project resources of about US$0.6 m for private
or political purposes was much less than originally feared. Neverthe-
less, the Commission concluded that there had been a laxity of adminis-
trative and financial discipline in the project executing agency. The
Government took strong disciplinary measures: the Director of the DERP
was suspended, the agency dissolved, and its equipment distributed to
MPWTCU's regional  services.   As a result of the inquiry, budgeting
controls were tightened up in MPWTCU as a whole. A policy change was
also introduced to do more maintenance work by contract.
3.12      The Commission found that direct procurement of equipment,
spare parts, and materials amounted to US$7.3 m equivalent while the
loan agreement did not provide for direct procurement at all; the
permitted aggregate limit for such procurement through LCB was only
US$1.5 m. However, the Commission decided that the price differential
between items procured directly as compared with those purchased through
competitive bidding, was insignificant.  The Bank concluded that the
principle of economy had not been violated, but that a major shortcoming
of the loan documents was the failure to provide for direct procurement
of proprietary spare parts and other minor purchases.
3.13      Based on the findings of a supervision mission in April 1984,
the Bank concluded that the Commission had carried out a thorough
investigation. The Bank also established that it had two basic options:
(a) to strictly apply the loan agreement which would have forced MPWTCU
to use Government funds to meet outstanding force account expenditures
in full; or (b) to accept expenses incurred for road works outside the
approved work program which would permit remaining contract works under
the project to be executed with loan funds. After a careful examination
of the pros and cons of each option, the Bank decided on the latter
option.



- 10 -
3.14      The Bank, accordingly, informed the Government that it would
regularize the project situation by incorporating a posteriori into the
project expenditures for justifiable road works carried out outside the
project and waived the aggregate limit of US$1.5 million on procurement
under  LCB.   The  Closing Date  was  extended  from  September 1984  to
June 30, 1985, to permit the completion by contract of the remaining
feeder road work.
Completion of the Feeder Road and Maintenance Components
3.15      As a follow-up of the agreement to let more feeder road works
by contract (para 3.04), in late 1983 and early 1984, the MTPTCU awarded
seven lump-sum contracts following local competitive bidding for the
rehabilitation of 433 km of feeder roads.  Because of the depressed
state of the construction industry at the time, a number of large,
locally-established foreign contractors participated in the bidding and
obtained several contracts.   With one exception, all contracts were
executed in the course of 1984 and 1985. One local contractor proved
incapable of completing the works, and the Government is currently in
the process of cancelling the remainder of his contract. In 1984, bids
were invited for a further 200 km of roads to commit remaining loan
funds, but these were never awarded because part of the remaining local
funds were tied up due to delays in the regularization of project
accounts, and the reluctance of the Ministry of Finance to budget
additional funds in view of the poor financial control of project funds
in the past.  In all, about 400 km of roads were built by contract.
Thus, along with the 1,100 km built by the feeder road brigades
(para 3.04), a total of about 1,500 km of roads were completed or 42% of
the 3,600 km of feeder roads called for under the preject.
3.16      Under the arrangements noted in para 3.14 to regularize the
project, an additional 512 km of roads already built were included under
the maintenance component. This amount, added to the 200 km previously
regravelled (para 3.05), brought the total regravelled to 712 km or 79%
of the 900 km of betterment called for under the project. Thus, under
the combined feeder road and maintenance components, somewhat over
2,200 km or about 50% out of the 4,500 km called for under the project
were built, while 94% of the loan funds were spent (Table 1).
The Maintenance Shops and the Modal Study
3.17      The contractor went bankrupt before fully completing the three
regional workshops and installing the equipment. Thus, they became only
partially operational.  The completion of the workshops and remaining
equipment is now being financed under the Second Highway Sector Project.
As previously noted, the study of the modal distribution of freight
traffic was completed in 1981; however, its recommendations were not
implemented. This matter is being followed up under the Second Highway
Sector Project.



- 11 -
Performance of Contractors
3.18      Two domestic contractors had to be removed from the feeder
road component because of;poor performance, and a third working on the
maintenance  shops went bankrupt.   The difficulty of utilizing  Cate
d'Ivoire contractors was underestimated by the Bank, although the ap-
praisal report was somewhat pessimistic on this point. Prequalification
of domestic contractors might have avoided this problem. Local contrac-
tors had little interest in feeder road construction during the earlier
years of the project, in part because they were unfamiliar with the
documentation. However, when the building boom eased, and road equip-
ment became more readily available through rental agencies, local
contractors became more interested in obtaining relatively modest road
contracts.
Implementation Schedule
3.19      It would appear that the project was too ambitious in scope
for the time allowed, a situation which often develops on projects in
Africa as a means of keeping pressure on executing agencies to perform.
The original schedule was too short, and much more time should have been
allowed for procurement of the equipment and for execution of the works.
Project Costs
3.20      Because of substantial cost overruns, particularly  in the
maintenance component and the division of equipment and supplies, only
about 50% of the project road works were completed. Per kilometer costs
of feeder roads improved by force account declined significantly over
the life of the project and in 1981 ranged from US$6,800-10,800 equiva-
lent, excluding equipment depreciation. The cost of feeder roads built
by contract averaged about US$20,000 per km.
3.21      Costs for the maintenance component, which, in many instances,
should be labelled construction costs, were much higher than estimated
at the time of appraisal because of heavy earthworks required to meet
the  high  standards  used.   These  costs  ranged  from  US$20,000  to
US$70,000/km equivalent, far above the US$16,000/km estimated at the
time of appraisal, and led to a cost overrun for this component
(Table 1).
Disbursements (Tables 2 and 3)
3.22      Disbursements proceeded reasonably well over the three-year
period from 1979-82; they were considerably below the appraisal estimate
but in line with the standard profile. From 1983-84, after the irregu-
larities were discovered, and during the period of the inquiry, dis-
bursements were almost at a standstill. Later, they picked-up during
the final stage of the feeder road component.   The Government was
reluctant to put up local funds to use the remaining loan funds, and on
December 31, 1985, the undisbursed amount of US$2.0 m was cancelled, six
months after the twice-extended closing date of June 30, 1985.



- 12 -
IV. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
Feeder Road Component
4.01      The principal objective of the feeder road element of the
project was to provide better transport services for the rural popula-
tion and enoure transport of agricultural and forestry products at
reduced costs.  At appraisal,  the expected economic rate of return,
based on vehicle operating costs savings, was estimated at 24% for the
first-year program (716 km).  Feeder roads to be included in the sec-
ond-year and subsequent programs were to have a rate of return of at
least 10% based on vehicle operating costs savings and/or value added on
incremental  agricultural  output.   A  consultant's  study had  derived
traffic and traffic growth estimates on project roads from population
density and actual and potential agricultural output in the project
roads' zone of influence; traffic growth was forecast to average 6-7%
per annum between 1977 and 1987.
4.02      The project provided for the setting up of a Feeder Road
Monitoring Unit within MPWTCU to study the socio-economic impact of
feeder road improvements on a continuing basis and prepare the
second-year and subsequent feeder road programs.  Unfortunately,  the
Unit never became fully operational and was subsequently dissolved.
Consequently, insufficient data are available to make a realistic
assessment of the economic and social benefits of the feeder road
improvements carried out under the project.
4.03      To at least permit a rough estimation of project benefits
based on vehicle operating costs savings, MPWTCU commissioned in Au-
gust 1985, road condition surveys and traffic counts on a sample of
feeder roads improved under the project, covering about 280 km or 18% of
the mileage constructed under the project. The sample included six road
sections upgraded by force account brigades between 1979 and 1981, and
two road sections improved by contractors in 1984.  Traffic on these
road sections in 1985 varied between 40 and 140 vpd, with minibuses the
dominant vehicle type, accounting for about 50% of total traffic on
average (Table 4). The results of the road condition survey indicated
that the road sections upgraded between 1979 and 1981 had already
severely deteriorated due to inadequate routine maintenance, requiring
substantial remedial works to restore them to their original service
level. As a consequence, the normal 8-10 year life of the investment
had been reduce4 to around five years.  The two road sections upgraded
by contractors were still in good condition as they had only been
completed the year before.  These investments stand a good chance to
realize their full potential benefits as they are expected to benefit
from the recently stepped-up maintenance effort supported under the
Second Highway Sector Project.
4.04      Table 4 presents the economic rates of return calculated for
the sample roads using vehicle operating costs savings as the only
quantified  benefits.   Costs  and  benefits  have  been  expressed  in



- 13 -
January 1984 prices, net of taxes. The average per km cost of upgrading
works by force account has been estimated at CFAF 3.7 m based on project
expenditure data contained in the Commission of Inquiry Report, adjusted
for inflation and taxes. The figure includes equipment amortization and
personnel costs.   For the two road sections upgraded by contractor,
actual contract  costs were used,  adjusted for taxes.   Estimates of
vehicle operating costs are those developed during the preparation of
the Second Highway S';ctor Project. In the absence of historical traffic
data for the project roads, the past traffic trends could not be deter-
mined. Instead, traffic trends for the country as a whole have been
used as a proxy, which indicate that traffic largely stagnated between
1980 and 1984 due to the economic recession.  Based on the improved
economic outlook for Cote d'Ivoire, traffic growth is forecast to
moderately increase to 1% in 1985, 2% in 1986, 3% in 1987, and 4%
thereafter.
4.05      The results of the rate of return calculations on the sample
roads summarized in Table 4 show wide variations. The returns on the
roads upgraded by force account are negative or marginal, while the
returns on the two road sections upgraded by contract are satisfactory.
The poor results of the first group are explained by two main factors.
First of all, the construction costs were significantly higher than
foreseen at appraisal due to the low productivity of the feeder road
brigades and the adoption of higher construction standards.  Secondly,
the life of the investments was substantially shortened because of
deficient follow-up routine maintenance after the works were completed.
It should be noted that the realization of the good rates of return for
the second group is contingent on their receiving proper maintenance in
the coming years; given the positive country-wide improvements in
maintenance effort achieved over the past year, this underlying assump-
tion is considered realistic.
Road Betterment Component
4.06      The objective of the betterment component was to assist the
Government in expanding its capacity to carry out regravelling and
betterment works on high priority primary and secondary gravel roads.
The project provided for the setting up and operation of two additional
betterment brigades to supplement three existing brigades for which the
operating costs were to be financed out of the Government's regular
maintenance budget.  The two project brigades were to improve 900 km,
and the three existing brigades 1,600 km, during the three-and-a-half
year project period.
4.07      At appraisal, the economic rate of return on the betterment
program to be carried out by the two project brigades was estimated at
36%. The only quantified benefits were vehicle operating costs savings;
traffic was forecast to grow at 10% per annum.
4.08      For reasons explained in Chapter III, the actual mileage of
primary and secondary gravel roads completed amounted to only 245 km for
the two project brigades and 467 km for the three existing brigades.



- 14 -
Part of the running costs of the three existing brigades was financed
from project funds. Actual average per km construction costs, including
taxes and equipment amortization, amounted to about CFAF 10.8 m, more
than twice the appraisal estimate. The difference is explained by the
extremely low productivity of the brigades, the adoption of excessive
construction standar4s for some roads and the diversion of project
resources to non-programmed tasks of a political or private nature.
4.09      Given the very disappointing physical implementation results
of this component, it is not surprising that the anticipated economic
benefits could not be realized. The re-calculated aggregate economic
rate of return for those roads (593 km out of 712 km) for which traffic
data are available, is negative (Table 5).  Apart from the excessive
construction costs, other contributory factors to the poor result are
the failure of anticipated traffic growth to materialize because of the
country's economic recession and a posteriori changes in the agreed
construction program by Government, introducing a number of very low
trafficked roads.
V. CONSULTANTS' PERFORMANCE
5.01      Almost 494 m-m of consulting time were included in the pro-
ject:  228 m-m for the feeder road component, 246 m-i for the mainte-
nance component and 20 m-m for the modal study.  The technical assis-
tance team comprised 10 experts to train and assist Government persornnel
on the feeder road component and 11 experts for the maintenance coxcpo-
nent, nine of which were assigned to DCMTP. Of the remainder, one was
to act as project coordinator; the other was assigned to DERP to assist
in establishing the annual work program and budget requirements, ard
supervision and monitoring of betterment work executed by DERP's force
account  brigades.   The  consultant  assignments  ranged  from  20  to
30 months with an average stay of about 23 months.
5.02      The appraisal report assumed that by 1981, when the consul-
tants were to complete their assignment, MPWTCU would have skilled
personnel to carry out the feeder road component without the need for
further technical assistance. The training program in the workshops was
to emphasize improving the qualifications of Cote d'Ivoire instructors
who would carry out training activities after termination of the consul-
tants' assignments.
5.03      Maintenance personnel were trained through the Centre d'Appli-
cation des Travaux Publics (CATP). The program included both long-term
(two years)  and short-term  (1-2 weeks)  refresher courses.   Training
results generally fell short of appraisal targets. The CATP was dis-
solved in 1981 and replaced by a new and better equipped training
institution, Formaroute, set up under the First Highway Sector Project.
The actual achievements of maintenance personnel training under the
project, compared to initial objectives, were as follows:



- 15 -
Number of Trainees
Type of Training                           Objectives            Actual
Long-term Train$ng
Foremen Mechanics                             40                  33
Engine Mechanics                              44                  --
Repairmen                                     70
Lubricators                                   50                  --
Operators                                     80
Engine Foremen                                24                  34
Short-term Training
Electricians                                  24                  __
Diesel Mechanics                              22                  --
Engine Mechanics                              --                  30
Repairmen                                                         44
Lubricators                                   --                   16
Operators                                    --                  256
Drivers                                       --                 145
5.04      The supervision reports give little information on the perfor-
mance of the consultants. Their reports are mainly statistical and they
provide little in the way of qualitative assessment of progress on the
project.  The reports were issued only up to the end of 1981 on a
semi-annual basis, after which the consultants' contract expired and
they departed. C8te d'Ivoire employees took over their work but did not
perform wiith the degree of success anticipated by the Bank; no further
progress reports were issued. In 1983/84 an individual consultant was
engaged to oversee the remaining contract works.
5.05      It is concluded that the consultants should have been required
to issue more frequent reports, at least on a quarterly basis. Further-
more, their contract should have been extended and the departure of key
personnel staggered to provide for an orderly transition to local staff.
Shortly after the departure of the consultants, the training of road
maintenance staff was picked up under the First Highway Sector Project.
5.06      Although project execution,  even with the presence of the
large consultants' team, never was satisfactory, it stayed more or less
on course as long as the team was in place.  After the expiration of
consulting services, performance on project execution declined drasti-
cally, and, for the gravel road maintenance component, all discipline in
adhering to project objectives was soon lost. The MPWTCU was reorgan-
ized just at that time, fragmenting supervision responsibility to the
regional level, which did nothing to help. The departure of the consul-
tants, the change in the NPWTCU's structure, and the concomitant change
and decline in reporting and monitoring, all combined to blur the
adverse developments of project execution.   Only in mid-1981 did it
become clear that the withdrawal of consultants a year earlier had been



- 16 -
a mistake, and by then the damage was done. The interruption in project
work during the freeze on project activities while the Commission of
Inquirv was conducting its work, together with the realization that the
Second Highway Sector Loan (then being prepared) would cover the activi-
ties of the project, reduced any impetus that there may have been for
resumption of project work.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      The Government's  record in complying with its obligations
under the covenants of the loan agreement is mixed. The project was not
carried out in the manner envisioned in the project documents, nor was
it completed as scheduled. Feeder roads were not executed in line with
the agreed criteria until late in the project cycle.  The project was
not carried out with due diligence, and goods and services which were to
be used exclusively for the project were used on non-programmed works.
Adequate records were not maintained, hence the difficulty encountered
by the Commission of Inquiry in determining what had happened.
6.02      The implementation of the feeder road component fell below
appraisal expectations. The work to be carried out by contract was less
than anticipated and the lack of local funds prevented the use of
remaining loan funds on this work. Part of the problem was attributable
to the delays in payment of local funds to contractors and the insuffi-
cient level of supervision provided by the Regional Directorates of the
Ministry of Works. In view of the mixed results obtained, the Govern-
ment opted to return to its former strategy of force account maintenance
which is now being pursued under the Second Highway Sector Project,
albeit with greatly strengthened control of expenditures and works to
avoid the recurrence of past problems. A separate Government agency,
Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTX), is now responsible for
supervising and maintaining road maintenance programs.
6.03      As noted in para 3.12, the procurement limit for LCB was not
observed. If the limit was too restrictive, the Government should have
requested the Bank to raise it. Annual work programs were prepared for
the first years of the project with the assistance of the consultants
but were not always followed by the Government. The problems that arose
led to the dissolution of DERP. Whether it was necessary to take such a
drastic step which effectively meant the end of work on the maintenance
component, rather than replacing local personnel who had been found at
fault and intensifying supervision, is a difficult judgment to make,
especially in the context of the project alone.
6.04      The Government disregarded its commitments to keep to the
agreed design standards for the feeder roads, and to do mainly regravel-
ling work for the maintenance component.  The main problem of force
account work was that the executing agency was not required to prepare
plans and specifications usually considered necessary for works executed
by contract, nor were the works done under the independent supervision



- 17 -
and financial controls usually imposed on contractors. Thus, important
monitoring and controls were lacking, which permitted laxity and inap-
propriate actions to go undetected until too late.  The main lesson
learned by the Borrower was to tighten budgetary controls and maintain
better discipline in the execution of future work programs (para 6.02).
6.05      Following the Commission of Inquiry, the Government indicated
a reluctance to make available any more local funds for the project.
For its part, the Bank was reluctant to again extend the closing date
without assurance that performance would improve. Furthermore, at that
time, the Second Highway Sector Project was coming on stream, the
maintenance component of which would be to cover the country's road
maintenance needs over the period mid-1985 through 1988. Thus, it was
agreed that the project would be completed under the Second Highway
Sector Project.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01      The feeder road and maintenance components were prepared and
appraised by RMWA and headquarters, respectively. However, there was no
clear cut division of responsibility for supervision; in fact, the files
reflect uncertainty on the part of staff as to who was responsible for
what. RMWA supervision continued to April 1982, at which time its
Feeder Roads Section was closed and its responsibility was handed over
to headquarters. As the RMWA was located in Abidjan, its supervisory
staff was close to the project, and thus RMWA supervision reports do not
reflect the frequent day-to-day involvement with the project executing
agency.  The project was supervised for the first 3-1/2 years of its
execution at different times, by different staff, who issued separate
reports on each of the two main components.
7.02      The two project components were combined at appraisal because
of the closely related nature of the works and the deemed essential need
for coordination.  Furthermore, as they were to be implemented by the
same executing agency, it would seem to have called for supervision by
only one Bank entity, or, if responsibility had to be divided, closely
coordinated supervision with one entity in overall charge.
7.03      During preparation, appraisal and supervision, seven different
highway engineers and five transport economists were directly involved.
A financial analyst only participated in two missions in 1982. Supervi-
sion was sporadic, with little coordination between the two Bank enti-
ties.  Given the problems that arose, it is surprising to note that
there were such long intervals (three periods of 9 to 14 months) between
supervision missions. Much more intensive supervision should have been
carried out, and an engineer and a financial analyst included on more of
the earlier missions.  Also, visits to the project, which were often
combined with other work, should have been of longer duration to enable
staff to cover the widely scattered works. Supervision of force account
operations, in particular, is extremely time consuming because of the



- 18 -
need to review details of work scheduling and operating costs. Feeder
roads and maintenance projects spread out on a country-wide basis
require much more supervisory time than the standard road construction
project involving one or two sites.
7.04      Some of the supervision reports are superficial, lacking in
detail and comprehensiveness; others were thoroughly prepared.   Some
consist of only the Form 590 without backup data, and three even lack
the Form 590. Few of the reports cover the overall aspects of project
execution such as performance of the consultants and executing agency,
and status of funding and disbursements. This situation improved when
supervisory responsibilities were combined under one entity but, by
then, it was too late to Institute major corrective measures as avail-
able funds for force account works had already been fully committed.
Following the Commission of Inquiry, supervision seemed to have lapsed,
rather than being intensified; there are no supervision reports in the
files after mid-1984 until the final supervision mission in Febru-
ary 1986, although several Bank missions did visit C8te d'Ivoire on
project matters during that period. Those Bank missions and the Govern-
ment focussed their attention on the problems that arose in the execu-
tion of the Highway Sector Project and the processing of the Secor.d
Highway Sector Project, which included a follow-up road maintenance
component.
7.05      Despite the foregoing shortcomings in the supervision of the
project, attention was repeatedly drawn in supervision and other reports
that serious problems were developing. The project was not declared a
problem project until the fall of  1982.  According to the Project
Implementation Review for that period, project funds for force account
work would be exhausted before December 1982, and it was too late for
Government to implement the corrective measures requested by the Bank.
If the Bank had acted more forcefully during the early stages of project
implementation when major problems were first detected, it might have
been able to mitigate the magnitude of the problems which eventually
developed.   Furthermore,  given the difficulties which arose,  it is
puzzling why the Bank did not insist that the consultants' contract be
extended in line with the revised project schedule despite the reluc-
tance of the Government to do so.
7.06      The Bank acted decisively in following up the Commission of
Tnquiry. The report of the April 1984 mission to review the Commis-
sion' s report was thorough and its recommendations statesman-like in
trying to find a practical solution to a difficult set of problems. The
project seemed to have been salvaged, but only roughly half of the road
works were completed.
7.07      The procurement requirements were unnecessarily restrictive,
and should have provided for direct procurement of proprietary spare
parts and other minor purchases.  The requirement to advertise only
locally for bids on civil works and the low ceiling of US$1.2 m on the
size of each contract seems to have attracted incompetent contractors.
Procurement based on ICB as proposed at the Decision Meeting



- 19 -
(para 2.10), larger contracts, and prequalification would probably have
avoided this situation; however, the MPWTCU apparently preferred to
maintain a register of available domestic contractors. Inclusion in the
loan documents or a supplemental letter, of a set of design standards
for the roads to be improved in the maintenance component, might have
curtailed some of the overbuilding which took place.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECONMENDATIONS
8.01      In retrospect, it seems clear that the decision at the time of
appraisal of the feeder road project to add the maintenance component
was a mistake, even if considerably more work was required by the Bank
to eventually process a separate maintenance project. Not only did this
decision delay the processing of the feeder road component, but more
importantly, it led to a continuation of divided responsibility for the
remaining preparation and appraisal work, and the supervision of the
combined project. Divided responsibility for such a complex and diffi-
cult project, especially since it was a first of its type for C^ote
d'Ivoire, set the stage for the difficulties that followed. The failure
to promptly recognize these difficulties and take remedial action led to
a worsening of the situation to the point that only about half of the
project roads were completed.
8.02      The main objectives of the project were o?';- partly achieved.
The project placed too much reliance on doing work by force account
rather than by contract, especially in the light of the shortage of
trained personnel such as supervisors, mechanics and operators noted
during the execution of the Third Highway Project. Purthermore, the
capability and morale of the NPWTCU rapidly declined during the project
implementation period as DCGTX assumed increasing importance and respon-
sibility within the sector. Also, the project was too ambitious for the
available personnel resources in the country and in MPWTCU; a smaller
project might have had a better chance of success.
8.03      No comprehensive economic reevaluation of the project could be
carried out in the absence of recent traffic counts for most of the
project roads. However, re-calculated rates of return for those roads
(280 km of feeder roads and 593 km of primary and secondary gravel
roads) for which traffic data are available show poor results with
mostly negative or marginal rates of return. The only exceptions are
the feeder road works carried out by contractors in 1984 and 1985. The
main reasons for the disappointing results are the low efficiency and
adoption of higher design standards for force account works, inadequate
follow-up maintenance of works completed and the shortfall in anticipat-
ed traffic growth.
8.04      The execution of the project provides a number of lessons for
the Bank. First, feeder road and maintenance projects that are scat-
tered over large areas of a country require extensive and time-consuming
supervision.  Such projects should be approved only if the Bank is



- 20 -
willing to coajit the staff resources to oversee them.  Second, the
limitations of executing works by force account need to be better
understood. Given lax management in executing agencies and shortages of
skilled personnel, force account is not a dependable way to execute
works.  In fact, the risks are much greater than executing works by
contract. Third, the consultants' contract should have covered all the
project works and it should have been extended to match the delays in
project execution. The consultants should have been required to submit
more frequent and informative reports. Fourth, design standards, plans
and specifications should be prepared and agreed for force account works
before these works are allowed to start. Fifth, clear cut accounting
and auditing controls should be set up at appraisal. Sixth, the organ-
ization for follow-up maintenance on works completed should be agreed
before commencing works.
8.05      The Bank's supervision standards were not maintained on this
project with unfortunate consequences.   Tighter controls over  staff
reporting and prompt follow-up of reports when they indicate that
serious problems are developing, would seem obligatory.



nFDQk saw Am nuuma
l  uaw lmzjtaw
hr1s  and Act,e Cost latim1-f
tRmloae Compat                                y    4    a       L                                                    r*L mI-                                              UA MML 7
(CUA  milla)     (enV sll"l)        (CA* UllM=)       cUS'oo) ^        (My1 mlli)    (ClA  .11i,)   (Cen  mill.)            (as$000) /b       CFA  be"a      0  b"as
A. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a) 8pt~t                      307              1,3S1             1,858             7,591              *08             1,102            1,510             5,593            S1             74
b) ap- Do-                    265                60                934             3,S12              303               780            1,03             4,011           116            1S
c) lb,   _atals             1,025                700             1,728             7,053              690               470            1,10             4,296            67             61
0) ltea saint               2,3s                   -             2,315             9,g9             1,355                 -            1,#35             S,OlS            S9             53
e) Clii  1ee egetractld    109"                1.330             2.421             9.5S2              979             1.196            2.175      S      aOSS             90             82
emd&m"                      5,206              4,SO             9,256            37,780            3,735             3,58             7,283            26,974            79             n
O.   _m w rnao                                                                                                                                                                                                    t-
AND sOM-8 Mk
a) BuSpmt                     401              1,063             1,44              4,057              430             1.163            1593              5,9e            107             97
b) Rom ram                    216               5SS                774             3,159              361               929            1,290             4,77S           267            131
c) tl, mater"o                469                3e7                               3,"                790               51             1,308             4,844           168            153
*) Idea aeluie              1.436                 --             1&436       2      .21     n       2.27                               2.2n              8.411           1              144
Sd-?As                      2,522              1,969             4,4n             18,249            3,8S2             2,6t0            6,442            23,933           145            13
C.    -
*)  al1dig                    233                I4                407             1,861              207               169              376             1,392            92             84
b)    im_t,  ml                75                203               278             1.135              100               272              372             1.378           t34            121
Sd-IeA1                       29S                287               "5              2,796              307              441               74$             2,770           109             99
P.   D AL        8               246                806             1,074             4,304              s"                98      1      1,550             5,770           145            132
_RM 20trdL                  8,29               7,192            15,46             63,20S            8,471             7,580           16,051            s9,448           106             94
j      _A     te. At Wppral    1.0  ( WA  24S
b s _               ret. Aw`g prop-ct inlmmatlm aS dertved f2ee diaburaat data: US$1.0  CFlF 270
SOt..:  SWWat= bprt of 04/22s6
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
NW lSE



- 22 -
TABLE 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OAN 1501-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursements bY Category
Category                                              Original          Actual
US$               US$
1. Equipment, Vehicles, Spare Parts and Tools                                    12,300,000        14,718,671
2. Fuel, Lubricants, and Construction Materials for Civil Works
under Parts A and B of the Project Executed by Force Account                  2,900,000         3,364,147
3.  Civil Works by Contractors under Parts A and B of the Project                 3,900,000         3,153,624
4.  Civil Works under Part C of the Project                                         600,000         1,547,93OLa
5.  Consultants and Expert Services                                               2,900,000        4,199,643
6.  Unallocated                                                                   6.400,000             ---
TOTALS                                                             29,000,000       26.984.015
/a Includes both civil works and workshop equipment.
Part A -- Feeder Road Program
Part B -- Maintenance Program
Part C -- Construction, Equipment, and Tools for the Three Regional Workshops
WAy19
may 1986



- 23 -
TABLE 3
REPUMLIC OF CCTE D'IVOIRF
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHNAY M&INWXMiMNCE PROJECT
LOAN l50l-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
(as of December 31, 1985)
-----------Accumulated Disbursements----------          Actual or New Estimate
(US$ million)                            of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                   Appraisal             Standard           as Percentase of
and Semaester                  Actual             stimate              Profile         Appraisal      Profile
FY78
Dec. 1977                                              6.0                                   0
June  1978                                             6.7                  0.9              0               0
FY79
Dec.  1978                                             8.5                  2.4              0               0
June  1979                         4.0                15.5                  4.5             26             89
FY8e0
Dec.  1979                        10.0                18.3                  7.3             57             137
June  1980                        13.0                20.9                 10.5             62             124
FY81
Dec.  1980                        15.5                23.5                 13.7             66             113
June  1981                        17.5                25.9                 16.8             68            104
FY82
Dec.  1981                        19.6                28.3                 19.5             69             101
June  1982                        21.6                29.0                 21.9             74
FY83
Dec.  1982                        21.9                                     23.8                             92
June  1983                        22.3                                     25.4                            88
FY84
Dec.  1983                        22.3                                     26.6                            84
June  1984                        22.8                                     27.6                            83
FY85
Dec.  1984                        24.1                                     28.4                            85
June  1985                        24.5                                     29.0                            85
PY86
Dec.  1985                        27.0
Closing Date:                   06/30/85            06/30/82
Notet US$2.0 m cancelled as of 12/31/85
April 1986



MOVE=C of a28 D 1V03
MnM ROD AND )WAIY UC HAIIffU*U ?9U:
Ecoamic Rates of leluru for Selected leader Roads
Rotimted         Eatiated
tagh         taeasa             Year of                           1985  Averae   Dily   Wtffie                            Lif of Investment        OU
ItSin?e?7               (km)      (CUP militca)       Zaprov_mt    Pseseer Car         ataus    Pic-UP        Truck    S=I-tretler  ;.L                (years)             M)
3_to-D~aa.saa                 30.0            111             1981              12            30         20           3            1           66               5               X.S
(0.1*)        (0.45)     (0.30)      (0.03)       (0.02)
toommie-Yeple                 28.5            .05             1991               S            24         16           2             -           51              5              -S.6
(0.16)        (0.47)     (0.31)      (0.04)         C-)
Oo_inu1ae- _~iae              13.5             se             190i               s            30          5           2            --          45               5              -7.5
(0.18)        (0.67)     (0.11)      (0.04)         (-)
8Xiae?o6Ia a  18.0         67              1981             10            34           9          1             -I          5               5               -1S.
(0.19)        (0.63)     (0.17)      (0.02)         (-)
Padlqasdae-Taplm              8.0              so             1981               3            31          6           1            -           41               5              -9.5
(0.07)        (0.76)     (0.13)      (0.02)         (-)
33.5            124            1979180           19             S0         12           3            -           84               5              71.6
(0.23)        (0.60)     (0.14)      (0.04)         C-)
_km-Xeadbl                    71n.3           270             1984              20            27          7           3            1           5S               8              17.1
(0.34)        (0.47)     (0.12)      (0.05)       (0.02)
Sslae-?elet                   76.3            237             1984              14            69         33          23            3          142               5              8S.1
(0.10)        (0.49)     (0.23)      (0.16)       (0.02)
Good                                                                      78.97        167.03     227.14      204.29       469.09
lair                                                                      90.62       U1.09       uAo.00      211.92       491.5S
PeOr                                                                     102.66        205.15     132.86      219.54       353.96
lay Poer                                                                 10.62        215.30      161.3S     224.57       528.43
1. Coats ad toeftts we eapesad In Jery  19t" price. net of taes.
2. Vdclaeoe rsting ewte are bed  t _stsUme devlo0ed for toe Secod                 Sector Froc by DX.
3. Aer-  coa  per k  for fee_  road  imptred by force accuat as derived from Cama1"se of 1aquttat lepee *etirnted at Cnp 3.7 milliona. Iludin  equipent mrtisattco sd local
alarle. Costs Ver k of ceerct _   Raead on actual ceotract  _utse, ret of tae.
4.  bnd sml _1 h of traftic - 1S90-64t  4 195 1%N  19066 2%v 19671 A   198* md byead: 4%.
SSI is"
mm>



- 25 -
TABLE 5
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN 1501-IVC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Reevaluation of Road Betterment Component (593 km)
(CFAF million)
Year                         Investment Costs                 VOC Savings                Net Benefits
1979                                 960                           --                        -   960
1980                               1,728                          141                        - 1,587
1981                               1,920                           395                       - 1,525
1982                               1,085                           677                       -  408
1983                                                              836                            836
1984                                                              836                            836
1985                                                              845                            845
1986                                                              716                            716
1987                                                              468                            468
1988                                                              176                            176
Economic Rate of Return  -  3.1%
Traffic Composition and Economic Vehicle Operating Costs (CFA?/km)
Vehicle Type
Road Condition           Passenfer Car     Taxi Brousse      Minibus      Pick-up     Truck    Semi-trailer
Good                             71.85             115.60        152.98       123.68     196.01        443.58
Fair                             83.27             133.28        171.99       134.02     205.27        471.53
Poor                             94.69             150.95        191.00       144.36     214.52        499.28
Very Poor                       102.66             164.32        203.15       152.86     219.54        513.96
Traffic Composition (i)            26                 7              27          19          17           4
Notes
1. All costs and benefits are expressed in January 1984 prices, net of taxes.
2. Vehicle operating costs are based on estimates developed for the Second Highway Sector Project by DOGTX.
3. Average betterment costs per km as derived from Commission of Inquiry Report estimated at
CPAF 9.6 million, including equipment amortization and local salaries.
4. 1984 traffic on improved roads derived from 1983/84 traffic survey results of Service des Donnees
Routieres. Average 1984 traffic on project roads of 103 vpd and traffic composition calculated by using
length of road sections as relative veights. Assumed annual growth of traffic --
1980-84: 0%; 185: 1%; 1986: 2%; 1987: 3%; 1988s 4%
May 1986



COTE D'IVOIRE                   M  A  L
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
GIU I N E\/ AZ-
1  9
TOUB, A?             BOUNDI
GUI N E A   /        \ATI-.
Sibroyoe ~ ~ nr
, -1  TOUBA          -
-  .J   t8I~~~A'KUM           .0\ 
B.., E R"o I A                          03
~~~~~~~~~~~ot    -ar _6 be
,/,,.,*<NX   Pi~  ~~~nhod Ges \ ,f O
Ck,Zlepleu   n__           <_|tBoguedb j~~~'-..
O4; J>|>>\iuo
No   )'^e   |          <}   ' -* '       ?~SEGUL
L   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oI BEfRIoA%..Q...... I     a4aoo w
jAn'L     -o               -
~~~X)....\ 2
l>'? S~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnk
. A F R I C A,-'   ?ZoIi  0        MARA0o
.   /    ,,    \    d     8BogotorebyO
<~~~~~~~uku                     e _--e  . t4



IBRD 12899R1
.QL.Z....  Feeder roads program for 1978/79          ------- *I.-  Railways
Project roads under betterment program, 1978/8l 1     .     international airport
s   ,_            ko           .+           x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xxxxx-xxxxx Better,ment progrsm ftmunced by govemnrnt  T    Otheirairports
ffi                                                                                                                        I .     -    Intemational boundaries
PREVLIOUS PROJECDT                                   Ofcso einldnn
S                \%r) $ z. < .e                                                       f Construction  G  Office of regional divsions
.nn....n 'improveiment or pavseotnt strengthbeiing
? {X    o    ~   !;E_^(               t;          E seBridge construction
i s                              <_ q; Q  * Paved roads
Gravel roads                               2t    40    p q    0 Yp    10
Earth roads                                     KILOMETERS
*., 1eeCee... 0 ;            0        4 Pavedrojadsunder construction
0   \   Ouosgolodousg /   <w BURKINA FASO                 -           --4 
F f'ERKESStDOUGOU          ref-                         '                             ?
/    KiJRHO6O 7                   N,(!                             }                                  _        >8        \>
C   ,Ji-             , '         Bodikoho                              -,
/                                                                       (  W : NATi%NA r   PARK
OF T4H  KOMOt
Tafire
Dianro
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\ \                    r~~~~~~~~~iokaonrnondougou                       _~___t 
-w   a       \^                    >   i           ,<        S~~~~~~~~~~4,Dabaltolo
ATIOLA \  -                      \                  Son Negu-
~~~4~~'               '      , '  '- e5  ..'                                                                            A               t
A~~~
=\>> AK ;>>~} 6?4                $t   9^f  /bOI
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
>*$x /                                                                  Soot                                      T
PAU K OF N    -       v   :            T                 Bocond         _    A        eoi          Agnibilekrou
MARIAOL%UA'~J         f'\.-          Scrsu D ue
I lagl     jebo;       iZO5bP    0 GouToaroodi
:   Konseoyo      AGNQA                                 ]Kub4
Komayoyo0                                                                    *g
0;0                               <      ,          <      ti          9      \.I a                        z  
W.~~~~~~~~ao                                                                                         n\ 
{.  XxtwO   ffi  >>          1       a~~~~~~~~~roubroru  \                     14        r   
at~  (I%enR                                 M  AzoquidS    4B f, 0            \
I Abo            K-fu-ro
.   TLANTIC                             OCEAN                                                    Holt Aaa1mP  m
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f- -' us. 
;- - -         ~~~~A T   A N Tl / ,                                C     A N-,
-,    -  .n' ..nD..*m _--               1986
MAY 1986



