Document of
@A~~~h                 Woird Bai/W$-Snk
~~ ~P 
IFOFR OFMCEAL UO ONNLY                    N        q-
1eFoor No. P-2129-iVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
FEEDER ROADS AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
November 23, 1977
lols iirfrloM1 Os a gs          by ref jpemDs ocmily An Qe pffOnimee of
tbeEir oXD tgn&es. ]I comegu$ Mmag y n2 meThera  e be dhsc w1hioun Wou0I 3onDs auo&GAM00.



REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =  CFAF 1/
US$1000                 =  245 CFAF
CFAF I                 = US$00004
CFAF I million          = US$4,081
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                                     British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2                     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )                    0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)                              2047 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)                        2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB         African Development Bank
BCEOM       Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer
(Consultants, France)
CATP        Centre d'Application de Travaux Publics
MPWTCU      Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism
CDLT        Central Directorate of Land Transport (in MPWTCU)
CNBF        Centre National des Bureaux de Fret
DER         Directorate of Road Maintenance (in MPWTCU)
DERP        Directorate of Periodic Maintenance (in MPWTCU)
DCMTP       Central Directorate of Equipment (in MPWTCU)
DCPW        Central Directorate of Public Works (in MPWTCU)
EDF         European Development Fund
FAC         Fonds d.'Aide et de Cooperation
FRAR        Fonds Regionaux pour l'Amenagement Rural
LBTP        Laboratoires de Batiment et des Travaux Publics
CEBTP       Centre d'Etudes de Batiment et des Travaux Publics (France)
RAN         Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger
SDPI        Sub-Directorate of Programming and Investment (MPWTCU)
SETEC       Societe d'Etudes Techniques et Economiques (Consultants, France)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc in the ratio of 1 French franc
to 50 CFAFO The French Franc is currently floating.



IVORY COAST        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEEDER ROADS AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Amount:                US$29 million.
Terms:                  17 years, including 4 years' grace at an interest
rate of 7.9 percent per annum.
Project Description:   The Project would be carried out from 1978 to 1981
and consist of a 3-1/2 year program for the improve-
ment and maintenance of feeder roads and betterment
of primary and secondary roads covering about 50 and
40 percent respectively of the ongoing programs in
these areas; construction of regional workshops;
purchase of equipment; 248 man-months of tech-
nical assistance for staff training, planning,
implementing and monitoring the feeder road improve-
ment and maintenance programs and preparation of a
study to analyze the subsidy and taxation system for
freight transport.
Cost Estimates:
-------------------US$ Million-------------------
Percentage
of Foreign
Local    Taxes 1/   Foreign    Total     Exchange
A.  Feeder Roads              10.4      4.5       12.0       26.9         45
B. Betterment of
Primary and
Secondary Roads           6.0       2.1        6.5       14.6        45
C.  Workshops                  0.5      0.5        1.2        2.2         56
D.  Technical Assistance       0.9                 2.9         3.8        75
SUBTOTAL A, B, C, D       17.8      7.1       22.6       47.5         47
E. Contingencies
(a)  physical             1.0        .5        1.4        2.9        47
(b)  price                5.8       2.0        5.0       12.8        39
SUBTOTAL E               6.8      2.5        6.4       15.7         41
GRAND TOTAL             24.6      9.6       29.0       63.2         46
1/   Taxes represent about 16 percent of total project costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:         IBRD Loan                               US$29.0 million
Government                               US$34.2 million
TOTAL Project Costs           US$63.2 million
Estimated Disbursements:                              (in US$ million)
FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81    FY82
yearly                               4.8     9.2    7.3   4.8      2.9
accumulated                          4.8    14.0   21.3  26.1     29.0
Economic Rate of
Return:               29 percent.  The major non-quantifiable benefit would
be institution - building for feeder road maintenance.
Appraisal Report:      No. 1611-IVC, of December 1, 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST FOR A
FEEDER ROADS AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$29.0 million
to help finance a feeder road improvement and maintenance program. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:    A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal find-
ings and conclusions are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex I
provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1976,
per capita income reached US$610, one of the highest in Africa. The good
overall performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 15 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; liberal Government policies vis-a-vis pri-
vate capital inflows as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and availability of
external aid.
4.        Although the country has large mineral deposits which may become
commercially exploitable in the early 1980's, the contribution of the mining
sector to economic growth has so far been negligible. On the other hand,
favorable ecological conditions in the southern region have given Ivory Coast
a clear comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (particularly
cocoa and coffee) for export and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government and the
1/   Substantially identical with "The Economy" on the Ivory Coast of the
President's Report No. P-2080-IVC for the Ivory Coast/Upper Volta Re-
gional Railway Project.



- 2 -
agricultural community were concentrated on the agricultural and forestry
sector. Large investments were made in transport infrastructure to open up
new forestry and agricultural areas, and in agricultural research programs.
Adequate guaranteed prices and other incentives were introduced to which a
dynamic small-holder sub-sector has responded well. Government-owned large-
scale plantations with outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut
palm. Rapid growth has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple,
palm and coconut oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which, Ivory Coast
is now the third largest producer in the world.
5.        Another important contributing factor to the country's economic
growth has been the Government's open-door policy towards foreign private
investment and foreign labor at all skill levels. The prevailing political
stability, combined with the free transferability of profits and capital,
has created an aura of confidence abroad which provided access to foreign
capital. However, the necessary technical skills to assure the planned
development were lacking in the country, and the Ivorian community appears
to have accepted and welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc
area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory
Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it
joined the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has
recently helped promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional
industrial undertaking involving both French- and English-speaking countries
in West Africa. An important feature of this cooperation with neighboring
countries, which has been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large
influx of unskilled labor from less well-endowed Sahelian countries, parti-
cularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1976, the foreign population of the Ivory
Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was estimated at 2 million, i.e. close
to 30 percent of the country's total of 7 million inhabitants.
6.        The success of the Ivorian economy is further attributable to gen-
erally sound Government policies regarding public finance and external aid.
The public sector generated savings which, after debt service, financed about
50 percent of the public investment program in the 1960-70 period. At the
same time, the country was able to mobilize considerable financial assis-
tance from abroad, so that by the end of 1975, total external public debt
stood at US$1.5 billion and reached US$2.2 billion at the end of 1976.
Recent Development Issues
7.        The economic performance of the Ivory Coast in recent years has
been good. To maintain this momentum and help broaden the access to the
benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with exist-
ing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income distri-
bution and increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the management
of the economy. Current Government policies are directed with some success
to protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world
market prices, and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agri-
culture remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing



- 3 -
in GDP has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 14 percent in 1974. Within
agriculture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber,
cotton, coconut and palm oil has been developed, resulting in a decline of
the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in
1960 to 43 percent in 1975. As part of a more balanced regional development
policy, large infrastructure investments are under way in the Southwest in
an effort to develop access to that potentially rich region.
8.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the North following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of
ox-drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment
programs. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years,
with the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20
percent of total income.
9.        Progress in "ivorianization" of capital and labor remains limit-
ed. While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign owner-
ship is still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However,
education and training are given very high priority in the allocation of
Government resources; the employment potential of the informal sector is
increasingly recognized and the Government is sponsoring a variety of
programs designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and
commercial enterprises.
10.       These new directions of Ivorian economic policies are, however,
being implemented at some cost. The development of new products, new
sectors, and new regions is more expensive with decreasing returns on in-
vestments. For example, agricultural diversification is being extended to
crops with lower comparative advantage; forest reserves may be depleted in
ten to fifteen years unless costly reforestation programs are started; the
best opportunities for import substitution in industrial development are
becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive investments in
the potentially rich but sparsely populated Southwest yield initially low
returns; large programs to improve living conditions in the North and other
poor rural areas involve long gestation periods; and finally the direct and
indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing. Thus terms of
trade are deteriorating. The terms and conditions of external public debt
are also hardening with the grant element of public and private lending to the
public sector declining from 29 percent in 1969 to 14 percent in 1975.
Prospects
11.       In spite of these problems, medium- and long-term prospects of
the Ivorian economy remain favorable and an annual rate of growth of about
6 percent is a feasible objective, provided the Government becomes more
selective in determining investment priorities and continues to improve
the mobilization of domestic and external resources.



-4-
12.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have
been made, output of new products and development of new regions will start
to yield substantial benefits, and can later be expanded at reasonable
economic cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protec-
tion and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution
industries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented processing
of local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies
of income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to
increase agricultural productivity in the North, and the promotion of the
informal sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises) are
fully compatible with sustained economic growth.
13.       A new Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) has recently been
published. The program provides for further increasing production in the
developed regions, developing agriculture in poor savannah areas, accelera-
ting the opening up of the Southwest, diversifying production in agriculture
and industry, implementing large iron-ore mining and paper pulp projects,
and improving the quantity and quality of services in rural and urban areas.
Preliminary cost estimates indicate that implementation of the proposed pro-
gram would involve an increase in the level of investment from 23 percent
of GDP during 1971-75 to about 30 percent during 1976-80. This is a somewhat
ambitious though achievable target, particularly in view of the large sur-
pluses accumulated in the coffee and cocoa stabilization fund in 1976 and
1977. Earnings of the stabilization fund are expected to decline sharply as
coffee and cocoa prices return to more normal levels by 1980. Despite the
extraordinary rise in domestic public savings available for investment, new
foreign borrowing mainly from commercial banks rose by 47 percent in 1976 and
continued to rise as sharply in the first half of 1977 according to prelimi-
nary reports. This rise in external commitments coupled with increased pub-
lic investment spending from expanded domestic resources could well cause
the five-year plan to exceed even the revised plan investment targets of
30 percent of GDP.
14.       To avoid the internal distortions and balance of payments conse-
quences of this situation as well as to stay with a reasonable ratio of public
debt service to exports of goods and services by 1980, the authorities are
engaged in a review of new commitments to be undertaken during the remaining
three years of the plan, 1978-80. The aim is to carry out as much as possi-
ble of high-priority plan targets while achieving an external debt structure
consistent with the medium-term balance of payments prospects of the economy.
15.       Adjusting the plan would involve cutting back on borrowing from
the international banking system while financing a greater share of the
unfunded part of the current five-year plan from public savings and foreign
multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. Assuming these aims are met, the
debt service ratio would not be expected to exceed 18 percent by 1980.
16.       The balance of payments situation was affected by the increase
in oil prices and the recent recession of the world economy. The net oil



- 5 -
import bill increased from US$15 million (3 percent of commodity imports) in
1972 to US$90 million (7.5 percent of commodity imports) in 1975. However,
the economy reacted well to these circumstances, thereby demonstrating its
resilience. In 1974, higher export earnings more than offset increased
import outlays resulting in a balance of payments surplus of US$88 million.
A 1975 deficit of US$150 million was due primarily to deteriorating terms of
trade and low timber exports caused by a continuing slump in the European
construction industry; to help meet this deficit, the country made drawings
of US$13 million from the 1975 IMF Oil Facility, and US$33 million from the
IMF Compensatory Financing Scheme. However, favorable prices for coffee and
cocoa, together with an improved timber market, led to a rapid build-up of
gross reserves from US$18 million in September 1975 to US$136 million in
February 1976 falling again to US$70 million in July. Pressures on the
balance of payments remain, as the deficit on the services account will
continue to exceed the surplus on the trade account. To maintain a sound
balance of payments position, the country will need substantial external
capital inflows, which are expected to materialize, as well as continuing
careful management of its external accounts.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1976,
18 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 20 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 68 percent by the Bank Group), and 36 percent
by private banks and bond issues, while 23 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. More than half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries; France (27 percent), USA
(20 percent), Italy (5 percent), and Germany (4 percent). France and the
European Communities remain the principal source of development assistance
in grant form, accounting for about 6 percent of the flow of foreign assist-
ance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968 the Bank's lending to the Ivory Coast has expanded
rapidly and now includes twenty-seven loans totaling US$359.7 million
(including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA credit of US$7.5
million.  Twelve of these twenty-eight operations have been for agriculture,
covering the development of cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut
plantations. There were five road projects.' The remaining eleven loans were
for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system,
water supply, urban development, tourism development, small- and medium-scale
enterprises, a regional cement project and a regional railway project. IFC's
small participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
(US$204,000) was increased in 1974 by a 50 percent stock dividend. IFC's
Board also approved earlier this year a'10 percent equity investment,
equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the
largest textile plant in the country. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects,
with particular reference to those which are encountering problems in
execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.



19.       The main thrust of the Bank lending program will continue to
be in the agricultural sector with an emphasis on regional growth and income
distribution effect. A US$20 million loan for the Fourth Oil Palm and Coconut
Project was approved in March 1977. A second rubber project in the Southwest
and a rural development project based on rubber ate currently being prepared.
Another rural development project in the Northeast and a forestry project are
also under consideration.
20.       The Bank was closely associated, as executing agency, with the
1969 UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis
for determining future priorities among transport investments. Thus far the
Bank has financed five road projects totaling US$94.3 million. The First
Project was completed in December 1974 with final costs within appraised
estimates. The OED report dted June 28, 1977 on this project recommended,
inter alia, that more emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This had
been picked up in the third highway project, to which the proposed project is
largely a follow-up. The Second Project was satisfactorily completed in
September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modification and
subsequent poor work organization for the construction component. The Third
and Fourth Highway Projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the
Government is covering; otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Like the previous ones the Fifth Highway Project will contribute to a further
improvement of the primary road network of the country. A railway project,
focusing on the improvement of a priority section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was
approved recently. While the Bank is expected to continue to play a major
role in the transport sector, financing will increasingly be shared with other
aid donors.
21.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not provided the
country with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely
associated with the Government's efforts to modernize the education system,
in particular at the secondary and vocational levels. Both of the Bank's
ongoing projects have been directed to this end. A third project is currently
being prepared.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project approved in 1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanita-
tion in Abidjan and a follow-up project is being prepared. The Board recently
approved a secondary centers water supply project. An urban development
project, primarily aiming to help meet some of Abidjan's low-income housing and
transport needs, was signed in December 1976.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises.
A follow-up loan is under consideration. The Bank Group also provided support
for medium-scale enterprises through a local development finance company. In
June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support of the CIMAO
project, which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory, and



-7-
Togo. CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for the production of
clinker for the cement market of the three countries.
24.       Bank Group lending to the Ivory Coast has averaged about US$47
million per year in the 1973-77 period. It is expected to increase to about
US$110 million per year over the next five years. The Bank Group's share of
the Ivory Coast's external debt which, at the end of 1976, stood at approxi-
mately 13.7 percent (including undisbursed), is likely to remain at about
that level in the next ten-year period. The Bank Group's share of total
debt service is at present 4.5 percent and is expected to go up to about
7.0 percent in the early 1980's.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
25.       The transport system consists of approximately 45,200 km of
roads, 640 km of railway, major seaports at Abidjan and San Pedro, 400 km of
lagoons, two airports of international standard and an efficient internal
air service linking 11 towns. The country's infrastructure has developed
along major north-south axes which link the port of Abidjan with the land-
locked countries of Mali and Upper Volta. The system focuses on Abidjan,
but San Pedro in the Southwest is developing into another pole of attraction.
26.       At independence the Ivory Coast inherited an important highway net-
work which it has significantly expanded and upgraded. Recently the Govern-
ment began placing increased emphasis on improved maintenance of the existing
infrastructure. Since 1973, about 25 percent of yearly expenditures on road
infrastructure has gone to maintenance expenditures. Beside maintenance, the
Government stresses the need for a full development of its road network to
sustain a balanced regional growth.
27.       The railway system is part of the Regie du Chemin de Fer Abidjan-
Niger (RAN) owned jointly by the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta; it consists
of a 1,159 km single track line from Abidjan to Ouagadougou (Upper Volta) of
which 640 km are in the Ivory Coast. Road transport competition and the need
for heavy capital investments necessitate RAN's continued dependence on
Government subsidies. In October 1977 the Executive Directors approved
a Bank loan of US$23 million to RAN and an IDA credit of US$5.2 million
to Upper Volta to help finance a regional railway project. The project
aims at improving the railway's efficiency and includes track realignment in
the Ivory Coast, track improvement in Upper Volta, rolling stock and technical
assistance.
28.       The two main ports are at Abidjan in the southeast and San Pedro
in the Southwest. Most cargo, including traffic to and from Mali, Upper
Volta and Niger, passes through Abidjan, where freight traffic amounted
to about 6 million tons in 1975. A long-term development plan needs to
be prepared before the port becomes congested. The port of San Pedro was



-8-
developed for timber traffic as part of the general plan to serve the western
regions. However, traffic has not developed as anticipated due to a reduction
in timber exports between 1973 and 1975. The port has still to be adequately
developed and integrated into the country's transport network to utilize
efficiently its potential for handling general cargo.
Air Transport
29.       The Ivory Coast has two airports of international standard, in
Abidjan and Yamoussoukro. Only Abidjan is served by major international
airlines. The country has 25 airfields to handle domestic air traffic. The
air passenger traffic is expected to grow at a yearly rate of about 14 per-
cent, while air cargo is forecast to grow at 11 percent. Air Ivoire has a
monopoly over internal routes.
Rail/Road Coordination
30.       In the transport corridor extending northward from Abidjan, freight
transport is subsidized for both modes: directly for the railway, as each
country supports 60 percent of the cost of infrastructure maintenance on its
own territory; indirectly for roads, as the user taxes paid by trucks, partic-
ularly heavy ones, are less than the road costs they generate. Whether the
dual subsidization, combined with the Government's considerable influence on
rate setting for both modes, leads to significant distortions in the alloca-
tion of transport is not known for two reasons: first, because the amount of
subsidization is estimated at only 5-10 percent of operational costs for both
modes (trucking subsidies in Upper Volta may be somewhat higher), and secondly
because factors other than costs, such as flexibility and time savings, are
often more important in the choice between rail and road. However, the
Government has agreed to carry out a study of the present situation under
the proposed loan.
Transport Planning and Coordination
31.       The Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism
(MPWTCU), currently being reorganized, administers the transport system with
the exception of maritime transport, which is under the Ministry of the Navy.
While the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning is responsible for prepar-
ing and coordinating general sectoral objectives, MPWTCU is responsible for
making specific proposals to meet these objectives. It also supervises sev-
eral public bodies; the railway company, the National Freight Office and the
autonomous port authorities of Abidjan and San Pedro.
32.       The present system of planning and administration has not encounter-
ed serious difficulties in the past. However overall sector planning, policy
formulation and coordination of investments for the various transport modes
still needs to be improved. Thus, the Fifth Highway Project included an
updating of the 1969 UN Transport Survey which outlines investment needs and
will serve as a basis for the formulation of future investment policies in the



-9-
transport sector. Under the same project a Planning and Programming Depart-
ment was established in the MPWTCU to evaluate the sector's resources and
advise the Government on the rational allocation of funds among the various
modes of transport. The loan for the Fifth Highway Project also finances
technical assistance to train Ivorians to staff the planning department.
The Road Sub-Sector
33.       The road network is divided into two categories:     about 34,000 km
are classified, of which 5,850 km are primary roads, 7,000 km secondary roads
and 21,150 km tertiary roads; and about 11,200 km of roads are unclassified,
consisting mostly of tracks and low-standard roads opened by lumber companies
and state-owned agricultural development corporations. This network is gen-
erally adequate in extent at the present time, with two exceptions: the
opening of the port of San Pedro will require expansion of the trunk roads
in the central and southwestern regions, and the diversification and growth
of the agricultural sector will necessitate development of the secondary and
feeder road network.
34.       The country has about 2,000 km of paved roads.    Roughly one half
of them were built before 1960 and are under-designed for present traffic
loads. Even the best routine maintenance cannot preserve roads which are
structurally inadequate for the traffic load they must carry, and many of
these roads have deteriorated to the extent that major rehabilitation is
required. The Government's maintenance program, initiated under the Bank's
Third Highway Project, is tackling this problem through pavement strengthen-
ing and rehabilitation works. Many of the unpaved primary and secondary roads
are reasonably well maintained, but there still is a need for strengthening
maintenance operations, especially for secondary roads, and for reducing the
considerable backlog of improvement and periodic maintenance. The tertiary
and unclassified roads (feeder roads) are primarily dry weather facilities,
mostly with earth surfacing, and many become impassable during part of the
rainy season. Due to low construction standards, higher than estimated
traffic growth and inadequate maintenance, a large portion of the feeder
road network is in unsatisfactory condition and, therefore, needs improve-
ment and maintenance.
35.       The Government, in an effort to improve the network, is concentrat-
ing its main efforts on pavement strengthening'of the most deteriorated road
sections, construction of new trunk roads, improvement of highway maintenance,
and construction and improvement of feeder roads. Notable progress has been
made on the primary and secondary road network. Improvement and maintenance
of feeder roads has lagged, but now has priority. The proposed project will
help the effort to redress this imbalance.
36.       Roads carry approximately 75 percent of freight and 80 percent of
passenger traffic including that originating in or destined for neighboring
countries.  Between 1969 and 1975, the annual increase in ton/km of road
freight was 4.2 percent. Passenger traffic grew over the same period at
an annual rate of just over 10 percent.



- 10 -
37.       The MPWTCU carries out its highway functions through the Central
Directorate of Public Works (CDPW) which includes the Directorate of Road
Maintenance and the Directorate of Periodic Maintenance of Primary and
Secondary Roads. Physical execution of road construction and maintenance
work is done by seven regional directorates.
38.       The Ministry has a serious shortage of engineers and technicians
and relies heavily on foreign technical assistance. There are as yet too few
experienced professional engineers. A study undertaken as part of the Fifth
Highway Project recommended that the capacity of local teaching institutions
for civil engineers be increased, and the Government is considering establish-
ing a new school of civil engineering at Yamoussoukro. The Fifth Highway
Project also provides for overseas fellowships for two engineers and one
technician. The proposed project has a strong element of practical training
in highway maintenance for both professional and sub-professional staff,
extending the program begun under the Third Highway Project.
39.       The Government's highway expenditures, excluding foreign financing,
increased from about US$12 million in 1971 to about US$90 million in 1976.
In 1976 about one third of these funds were used for road maintenance and the
remainder for construction and administrative expenditures. Maintenance
expenditures are mainly covered by the road fund which is financed by taxes
on fuel and lubricants (70 percent). The balance is met from the general
budget (13 percent) and other sources (17 percent). New construction is
financed by the investment budget and by loans from the Bank Group, European
Development Fund (EDF) and bilateral sources.
40.       About 40 domestic contractors work primarily in the building sector
and participate only to a minor extent in civil works, due to insufficient
equipment, inexperience and inadequate management. Many of these companies
could progressively undertake larger civil works if given financial and tech-
nical assistance. The Government has launched a study to evaluate their
present work capacity and technical and managerial competence. The study
should be ready in early 1978 and its recommendations will be discussed between
the Government and the Bank with a view to possible assistance in future Bank
projects. In the meantime, small contractors will be encouraged to carry out
smaller structures and drainage works under the proposed project by allowing
local competitive bidding for these works (para. 54).
Maintenance and Betterment Program
41.       A 1969 SETEC maintenance study, carried out under the 1969 UNDP-
financed Transport Survey, identified the need to improve highway mainten-
ance for primary and secondary roads. The recommendations are being
implemented under the four-year maintenance program financed under the Third
Highway Project.



42.       As a result of training under the four-year maintenance program
and the increase in force account brigades, recurrent maintenance of the
most important primary and secondary roads has improved. However, further
improvements are needed in equipment maintenance and repair through addi-
tional training of mechanics and construction of regional workshops.
Although about 1,200 Ivorian staff have been trained as mechanics in the
training center of the Ministry's Central Directorate of Equipment (DCMTP),
the number of chiefs of workshops, mechanics, mechanical inspectors and pro-
curement personnel is still insufficient. These shortcomings are partly the
result of the Government's lack of competitiveness in the recruitment of
qualified mechanical personnel. Furthermore, the field operations of the
DCMTP are hampered by the inadequacy of regional repair facilities. One of
the aims of the Bank's program in the Ivory Coast is to assist Government in
building up the numbers and competence of their professional and sub-profes-
sional staff. Academic training would be pursued in the context of the Third
Education Project currently under preparation and practical training is being
provided in the course of the ongoing highway projects and would be continued
under the proposed highway project. In the meantime the supply of mechanical
engineering staff is likely to remain critical, particularly in the early
stages of the proposed project. It would be the subject of special review
during supervision missions. In the context of these reviews the Government
and the Bank would examine whether special measures are needed, beyond those
provided by the technical assistance component of the proposed project, which
would provide for construction of three workshop facilities, procurement of
workshop equipment and tools, and technical assistance to continue training
of mechanics to overcome these deficiencies.
43.       The Directorate of Periodic Maintenance (DERP) within the MPWTCU
satisfactorily operates three betterment units which were created with Bank
financing under the Third Highway Project. DERP is responsible for main-
taining and improving the country's more than 6,000 km of primary and most
trafficked secondary roads. However, DERP's present equipment and staff
capacity permits improving and regraveling of only about 450 km of roads per
year, not enough to catch up with the backlog of betterment works. The
proposed loan would assist the Government in procuring equipment for two
additional betterment units.
44.       Government spending on road maintenance has increased steadily
from US$8.7 million in 1971 to US$29.4 million in 1976. The latter amounts
to an average of US$650 per km for the total network which is high compared
with other West African countries. The Government's maintenance budget has
adequately covered all its operating expenditures under the ongoing mainte-
nance program and has paid for US$10 million worth of additional equipment.
It did not, however, provide the necessary funds to properly improve and main-
tain the feeder road network and to bring the regional workshops to required
standards. The proposed project would assist the Government in overcoming
these deficiencies. To optimize the allocation of the Government's highway
funds, the Planning and Programming Department, with the assistance of con-
sultants provided for under the proposed project, would determine by June 30,
1978 optimum standards for maintenance operations for the various road



- 12 -
categories and outline a long-term strategy, including financial requirements
to ensure adequate maintenance of the total road network (Section 3.09 of Loan
Agreement).
45.       In the past the Bank has assisted the Government mainly in improving
and expanding the primary road network, training and institution building.
Future operations in the highway sector would continue to help the Government
in training and in strengthening institutions. More emphasis would be given
to the development and maintenance of secondary, tertiary and feeder roads to
connect rural areas with the main transport arteries.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project was appraised in December 1976 with a follow-
up mission in March 1977. It was negotiated from October 3 to October 7,
1977. The Ivorian delegation was led by Mr. Naka, Director General of the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement.
47.       The project is described in detail in the Appraisal Report No.
1611-IVC, dated December 1, 1977 and summarized at the beginning of this
report. It would be carried out from 1978 to 1981 and would consist of:
(i) a 3-1/2 year program for the improvement and subsequent
maintenance of about 3,600 km of feeder roads;
(ii) a 3-1/2 year program for betterment of about 900 km of
unpaved primary and secondary roads;
(iii) construction of three regional workshops;
(iv) purchase of equipment for six brigades serving the feeder
road program; two brigades for the betterment program;
and three regional workshops; and
(v) technical assistance to train local staff in planning,
implementing and monitoring the feeder road improvement
and maintenance program, and in equipment maintenance and
repair, to assist in the installation and organization of
regional workshops; and to carry out a study to analyze the
subsidy and taxation system for freight transport and to
make recommendations to improve the distribution of traffic
between rail and road.
48.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of the Min-
istry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism. To implement
the feeder road program, a new feeder roads section would be created within
the Directorate of Road Maintenance in the Ministry (Section 3.03(a) of Loan
Agreement). Improvement works would be carried out primarily by mechanized
brigades as there is little unemployment in rural areas, and it is Government
policy not to divert already scarce agricultural labor to road works.



- 13 -
The Feeder Road Program
49.       Feeder road improvement would consist of clearing heavy vegetation,
reshaping the roadway, graveling selected sections amounting to about 35
percent of the total length and reinforcing and building drainage structures.
Road design standards would be based on criteria agreed upon with the Govern-
ment (Section 3.04(a) of Loan Agreement). In addition to maintaining the
roads improved under the proposed project, the Government would maintain with
its own financial resources a minimum of an additional 2,000 km of feeder
roads in 1978 to be increased to 5,000 km by 1982 (Section 4.03(b) of Loan
Agreement). The proposed loan would provide funds for procurement of road
maintenance equipment and the foreign exchange component of the equipment's
operating expenditures during the 3-1/2 year program.
The Highway Betterment Component
50.       The project would also provide for betterment works covering about
900 km of primary and secondary roads over a 3-1/2 year period. The proposed
program would complement 1600 km of betterment works executed by the three
existing force account brigades created under the Third Highway Project.
The proposed loan would provide financing of equipment for two additional
force account brigades, the foreign exchange component related to their
operating expenditures for the 3-1/2 year period, and the establishment of
three regional workshops and related equipment. Together with three additional
workshops to be built and financed by the Government and the existing central
workshop in Abidjan, the project would enable each of the country's seven
regions to have efficient service facilities.
Technical Assistance
51.       The project would provide technical assistance to assist the MPWTCU
in planning and executing the feeder road improvement and maintenance works
(228 man-months), and to expand the training of road maintenance personnel
begun under the Third Highway Project (246 man-months). The consultants would
provide on-the-job and theoretical training. An important feature would be
the training of Ivorian instructors who would carry on the program when the
consultants are phased out (Sections 3.02 and 3.05 of Loan Agreement). In
addition, the proposed loan would finance a study (20 man-months) for the
review of freight traffic distribution between rail and road and of the
subsidy and taxation system for freight traffic (Section 3.08 of Loan Agree-
ment).
52.       An important aspect of the technical assistance portion of the
project would be institution building. The establishment of a new feeder
road section in the Directorate of Road Maintenance would be a condition of
disbursement of the feeder road component of the loan (Section 3.03 (a) and
Schedule 1, para. 4 of Loan Agreement). This new unit would be responsible
for monitoring the economic, engineering and social aspects of the project;
developing the second and later years' programs of feeder roads, improvement



- 14 -
and maintenance; preparing investment and financing plans for these programs;
and submitting proposals for a continuation of the program after completion of
the proposed project.
Project Cost
53.       Total project cost, including taxes and duties of US$9.6 million,
is estimated at US$63.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of
US$29.0 million and local costs of US$34.2 million. The proposed loan of
US$29.0 million would cover the foreign exchange costs of the project. The
Government would finance the local costs of US$24.6 million plus taxes. The
project costs include a physical contingency of 10 percent on feeder road
construction equipment, workshops and their equipment, and civil works done
by contractors. No physical contingency allowance has been made on the large
technical assistance component and for the betterment program as these items
can be estimated with accuracy from experience under the Third Highway Project.
Price increases for the various items have been calculated separately on the
basis of Bank guidelines and amount to about 26 percent of the total base
cost. They were calculated by taking into account escalation rates of 9
percent in 1977-78 and 8 percent thereafter for construction items and 7.5
percent in 1977-78 and 7 percent thereafter for other times.
Procurement
54.       Equipment, civil works for construction of workshops and larger road
improvement works, materials and supplies amounting to about US$21 million,
net of taxes, would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for equip-
ment, materials and supplies costing less than US$50,000 and for spare parts
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures accept-
able to the Bank; the total amount of such purchases would not exceed US$1.5
million. Bidding documents were prepared by DCPW and reviewed with the Bank
at negotiations. Contracts for smaller civil works such as construction of
culverts, smaller bridges and improvements to road surface over short sec-
tions, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The total cost of civil works procured under local
procedures would not exceed US$1.2 million. Consultants for technical assis-
tance, at an estimated cost of US$7,500 per man-month, would be retained in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Goods manufactured in the Ivory Coast would
be allowed a preference equivalent to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods or the prevailing duties applied to non-exempt imports, which-
ever is the lower.
Disbursements
55.       The proposed loan of US$29.0 million would finance about 54 per-
cent of total project costs net of taxes. It would be disbursed against
the estimated foreign exchange costs of the project as follows:



- 15 -
(a) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of imported
construction equipment, spare parts, vehicles, workshop
equipment and tools, and 73 percent of local expendi-
tures ex suppliers warehouse of these items;
(b) 41 percent of total expenditures of fuel, lubricants
and materials;
(c) 55 percent of total expenditures of civil works to
improve feeder roads;
(d) 45 percent of total expenditures for workshop
construction; and
(e) 75 percent of total expenditures for consultants and
technical assistance.
Project Justification
56.       Agricultural products and timber reach their markets or seaports
primarily via road transport, and the main objective of the feeder road ele-
ment of the proposed project is to provide improved transport services for
the rural population. The quantifiable benefits to be derived consist mainly
of reduced transport cost, a substantial part of which would be passed on to
the users of the transport services, most of whom are small farmers. Road
access is the major constraint to development in only a few cases, therefore,
the project's economic justification has been based on reductions in trans-
port costs. A first-year improvement program has been defined accordingly.
The monitoring of the project would assess the adequacy of this method and
where justified also consider the developmental impact of road improvements
in selecting roads for the second and later years' programs.
57.       Reductions in transport costs for feeder roads were calculated in
the form of savings in vehicle operating costs for existing traffic and for
traffic generated by the road improvements. While a 4.5 m width is consider-
ed the minimum standard for improvement, it has been increased to 6.0 m in
those cases where the marginal investment yielded a rate of return of at
least 10 percent. The first year's program includes 716 km of roads with
a rate of return greater than 12 percent if improved in 1978. Traffic esti-
mates for roads included in the betterment program are based on traffic
counts undertaken by consultants in 1976. Vehicle mix and the respective
rate of growth patterns were observed over the 1969-75 period. All roads
selected for the betterment program show an average daily traffic of at
least 60 vehicles.
58.       For the purposes of economic evaluation of feeder roads to be in-
cluded in the second and later years' programs the roads were grouped into
two categories. The first category includes the improvement of existing



16 -
roads, serving areas with established agricultural activities and where the
road investment is not likely to result in benefits other than a reduction
in transport costs. As there would not be any quantifiable developmental
impact, the benefits are calculated as road user savings to existing and
future traffic. The second category includes construction of new roads or
improvement of existing roads (tracks) with little or no existing traffic
and which may form part of an agricultural development project. While the
majority of project roads come under the first category, some category two
roads may be identified from the second program year on.
59.       The road betterment work to be performed under the proposed proj-
ect would serve regions of the country which are given high priority in the
Governments investment program for balanced regional development. Traffic on
these roads is expected to grow at about 10 percent per year. The existing
roads are in poor condition, and the program is designed to improve them to
the standards of a good gravel road.
60.       The quantification of benefits in the betterment program for 900 km
of primary and secondary roads is based on savings in vehicle operating cost
alone. The two brigades to be financed under the proposed project are assumed
to start working April 1978 and April 1979 respectively, with benefits accruing
one year after the brigade has started working on each road segment.
61.       Benefits of the betterment component of the project are expected to
have an impact on a larger group than the direct road users. Currently, price
competition among truckers is strong in the Ivory Coast, making it possible
to pass a significant part of the transport cost savings on to the production
sector.
62.       The internal rate of return for the betterment work is estimated
at about 36 percent. A sensitivity analysis assuming a 15 percent increase
in cost and a 20 percent reduction in benefits shows that the economic rate
of return would drop to 13 percent. The Feeder road improvement works would
yield a rate of return of about 24 percent. The combined rate of return of
the whole project is estimated at 29 percent.
Risks
63.       One of the project risks is that the training program would not
succeed, if the Government is unable to hire enough qualified Ivorian staff.
However, procurement of equipment for the feeder roads and betterment units
for the second project year would be contingent upon the availability of the
necessary qualified staff (Section 3.07 of Loan Agreement). To assure that
the Government sets up a feeder roads section in the Ministry's Directorate
of Road Maintenance in timely fashion, the establishment of this unit would
be a condition of disbursement against expenditures incurred under the feeder
road project component (Schedule 1, para. 4 of Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of the
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of disbursement for the feeder road component of
the loan would be the establishment of a feeder roads section in the Direc-
torate of Road Maintenance (para. 52 of this report).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
November 23, 1977



0
05
a. S
                           a    oa                   o.a.                                                       n, a
-.                                                                                                     ZI
IS                                                                                                                                                                 S
-  tA St       It   C      000 Oni    010  a    at a   001    70      0 *0                     .      000      000   0        to
ira  -           0-                                                                                     -
0A   S
*    S
tS                                                                   .21
2  *                                                                  '0'0'                            U
,                             0101              0111   0101  'I'4                                       00     00
ii .50         a    00     nboa,-.o   as   a    ,--    .a    nO      000         gflOWg)t)            .00     00             Ct   a  to      24 e      
0024..,                      0,00   a       fit  0, 'fir    ni U' g)g o      .-.,-.ruoS
K S.       -     -                     Iii  tir          Uk      0t          Or   -                 to.   *71k           air  -    a          C  t  .)   an,c
7      -.                                                    01       0                                 an,
a)                                                                    0J                                                                                          -   S
a                                                                                                                                                                     I
i-Ski    S                                                  ->1
015W     S                                01.21  gil  .'I'I.'I
K  SO    *                               -.-l---I  -4  -r---S---4        -4-4-.I                                        -
00     ale        0    tO     o.@tt        a   -   S'Sfg  cc     ala     000           . . .     air      act     000    a       ta   C  C       5.- C  C         cc>.-
OS     aS a       a    OS-    taa-m       main a    Lair  --     n,i%j   at-ni                   ma       0CC     ..S.na  -      at   24         01 0   a         oCOgo
5-*   .-. SI-         ira    4..Na            a    or            .      Ca..                    a        U'.'.  0.-.          0mg  -  a           a  nj
* 5    tSr,                                                      -       a                                0.-a                                                       -
o 5    0 5                                                                                                a                                                              S
*    i.-S                                                                                                                                                              S
*  S     S                                                                                                                                                               S
a S
o S S
5- 5 5
a5                                                                                                                                                                       5
01  5                                                                                                                                                                    5
.-..     S                                                                                                                                                               S
o  S     S                                                                                                                                                               S
*ZS    *-  *t,      ,   Siog                                                                                                                                             S
*  01)- 5                              *-4                1            0 0 N
05.2.  LA-C 50      0    Co     aa -a.-.   ire  a    -o0    0-      *     COt         .000         . .    ata      00 .   .      00   0   a .      .  .  .   .     coca
SO. S   .-. *0  -   N               - lUg  an-a     at 01 a.-.            car'.        ac-a               too     age            .77  Se a                        tate
5 **      i-*             0g7    an  a           .,   air                  CO           ir (S              40S-t    Cir            0..  -                           p-..,  5
5.-C S S-C5                                                                                                e.00    -                                                   -
C Si--akiS                                                              01                                                                                               S
r4  S Ott    S
SO     S                               *08                .21                                            21        ci                                                 5
0)-) 05*                                                  -J                                                     -1                                                   i
*      1c       a    cc     -a -a-      to. a    aes-.  00     .       at .        . . . .      . .    000      Ott    *       00   0  40          .  4         *C ONS
* S  .-S       a    an,    aa..aa       a  c    n,an, Cc              on,                             000      sea            a.-. a  - a                       arc
SO                   -      an,  a          a,   at                    as                              Oar      ta..          .-..  -    n,                      -e
SO     S'                                                             a                               ira.-.   -
5.-.   5                                                               01                              irfl..*                                                         S
S-S S , .g S
.24                                                                  -.4
LAS    aSa        0    tO     eaten,      ti  a    1.-p--a 0.-   . .     to  *       co-air       ..     00'      00.    *       cc   a  to      2   . C    .     000.8
CS     - St       a    -     aaaa Sn     n,o     oar    a.-            ta         a-at                 cc      an,            an,   4, n-c    .-      -        o.    P
a S      S.-           -      toira        -  01   air                   am         am   -               5-       0ir            a   -   -                        -  01
(15      5.-.                                                            e                               an,
c       -'a                                                                                                                                     So
aS        -    0.-cc           ...                -         ..-.                    a       2      S a                                           a.-    50
i.)5     .4    tOt.-           .4                 0.-     .-ki      4-        II Sirki      C      ..-  4                                         Oft..  S
aO             a                 12      0   LA    n-roar     ,-.St2       50     7  0   a          C                             &00    SW
i-SO      .4    ..%1     a     i                i-ki     2ki0       0000      15010        *     kg                kg             0               i-a   SC
a,,-. - org.-.-., Sc C- 0 0 atE 0.4aa altO 0 n-r.-C0 .4 - C 0 LAS
S.4      0   0C  Si--       i--           -     .0     mOo       - 00CC     050         2fl     kg>0         0    '-1..        aC       kg      00   0 Sir
554       0    1501)-a                      i-    OS      t-        LATOIT     kiSCO      t   .4   007   0      -    0>    -      T      5-       TrotS,
75.5      0    0-1-0.0   U     -   0         0            04W)      g.i)flkgmakg  25  0   .-.S..-..fla.i        0    014   a      0-              .-rg.ao iN)
50      4    COt       0     0   7         0    .-.tg   TOO       on-ca,     a S.      8474-    1     (5    LV   tAp.   '-     e4-.00,0          00   S*-.
a S       n.-W0wa                 La      0      -kg     i--1i'.     NOON     (450             i. (SIT A  -         ft  7        0    -57.-.     a'    V So
5       LA        tO. 0          LAe-.)         0-                00000        5 i--   iran    Okikit        i--     o  kg     O'..72          8)jO0kgS-
SO      4.5   410' 0   a    kik)>  -'           0    0  i-LA  .40        04      10077      0 5g5g  25000       00'   -      2   .407Ta0       .a   c,.-.flg--.  akgoa 52
K    C  OS   05>    i--ft   *-i--i-->l-  7      kg   0  .2     00      kgb    tiC           254-kg  C 5040    4-  0 0       kg 070.400          b-4t,         *..&C  SO
a . . as S-S S .111 a7 000(4 0kg 00 Cg.0 flit) kkkt S..J 4-5020 .4007 0 = 40'-.i).J0fr 4,7)4W> .4 4- '-.rc Sb
01" flS *-.SO alt LA00..SZ 0 0 0 '-00 0 001 0 C .-. 020000 AS .4 0 S OCOt 1 AOl .4kgCt C*.0i-kg0i-. a *>5kg
''I  05,-.  20         tOO    r     -   tOO    >2   2i-J     4-2   9-5.-.           SOt   -.5000    0  0    5      AOLACireC,>       CA   01,0       00400 50
Ota       I    St   ki  . i-3W)S-Ifl  0      0<kikitokii-..-k          So.-)8  05  0)1)4)4  i-SOt   C Ikikiki  0005    0     0100    2714      c.Jck,OZtg       004405
IS      t   OS'    Okit   aoo0LAO    0      t  0)-It   Wa   2   C        -   0 SkgU4000    C Si-0  i-Si-i-)-  54.00  '-     OLA  lOoCt          1.34-A I-i-.   >t     Sc
5S     05   75       00   OCtOkid          .4 0        4-0  72        00     05,-.  n,n,a    S      'S                      20>432    LAO     0 4i-kWAA0       0140'- *'
445     05   052    20     5-0000k,   2      0i-.aae    CC   an.)      coc    a it          Zig->   2s22     ow   7  0.    kg oba..j.....    k-Ct   4.40     2.. 0   it
a S Sr Or. toO 00 C a ,,-a0 7 Ar.- 0 00i--500.- 0500 504-0. i-k 25 - Ot 7i C IOk'Sg 2 SLAO.-.-i- S
aS      t 5 7* ..-.O01-i--kgi-.             0  0       1-LA  00   1-itO>     Clii-. 000.--i        05               0      0001.02g.-          001k)      gri.gjk,.A tia
OS . kg S 0. 5 0i00W1- k) 2 V 0.42 S 0 0 r SI, a - 0 0. 7 5 A5 0 - S ft kb- V 0 - 5 0 0 2 5 0 00 0 0 1-k 0 2 5 0' 7 0 0 0.4 A 0 0 C .4 C A - SOil - - 41..
OS ALA 5 - St 0 0 00010 Ott tOo> .41) >I,O kg5 A Cia 11kg.., 0 Skgkg t ittO 0000 OS)-) 0 0.-.C. 2 .-,kgttflkgO 5 20080
- S a.-. 05  4-iA   .400   40000.0    Ai--0  7  04      CC   Atk. ) SACS        S c,c,0 1   0S72      8.4.4.4  C AC 5  4  0 iao-t,O-Oi-  0  I? tract   A    S iOkgoo SC
500   aS   050    Okiki tan?.-. a   00 at       01Cr    2-L.a     4-St 0,   kgS0.i-.-gflfl  .-.550  ISOO Ot000iO0kg0000A                  2.0 00044t 0    054-044052
050>5   05    .450  000    OLALAi-.A45  0i0  a  kg -a   or   S     OSi-Ufkg  1S077.4.4     flier   05000     04,0    t   a S-go 000g40     '-S0tAOg400        505"1-t
7.4-a     5 :100    0                 0      0  51      LILA  -     .45007    05            05       OSOOC. kg        kg 0)80     kg rflOlSkgt,tg4         OStt..JkgSkg
aS 05 OSO iS 0 SI 4 - 001 0 Si- iN itS, 00)4.. 05000 0 flNit>>tNSflfltfVtSs. ftg.g7 SI.,
55 Wi OS KS 7S i-IS kiS OS 05 05 So
155  05                                                    05        ..S           145      18                   08                 Ii              OS



-19        -                                           AMEX I
NOTISS
Uless otherwse noted, data for 1960 refer to any y.a- between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 b.t ...n 1968 and 1970 and for Most Rece.nt feti.ate be tov-
1973andl 1975.
*    OW  per ..pita det. are based -    jan1d Seek Atl" asmthadelsg    (1974-76 basis).
we Due co Smeigation population growth rate is higher then the rate of natural incraae...
--mTh. Republic of Chin" (TaiWan) ha. been, 0*1eeted a. an objecti-e country because of it. high rat, of growth coupled with an impr-..et of the
income distribution. its.. uccseI. i  the di-ereifiRction of production end eports, the dcinant Cole of export. in it. econoic dv-loM~cnt, the
high level of domestic eavinge and the low rate of urban onneploynent despite'a rural ...od...
IVORY COAST:            1960     /a  1957-58;     /b  African population only;      .L,,  1955-65;   Li, 1965;     /.   15 - 59 yeare and 60 .,d o-er rcepoc-
tively;    LIf  1966;    L&   Ratio of population une     15- -_n--0 and ove  to labor for 15 - 59 ye-r;        /b  Popolo-
tion;     It  1963;    Li, Including &.eietant nureee, nideivee and ..eijtant midwiv-e,          /k  1956-57.
1970    Lj   1965-70;    bL Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to total 1.6cr force;            Ic  Goc--eet only, including
eid.ivee      lA1 1964-66.
MOST RECENT FSTI54ATE:    ZL   1976;     Z   1970-75!59      , batio of populatiom under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59
ISMUl          Am   15-   yeaws; I       1971;     If  1972.
T-UNIS5IA;               1970    /.  Doe to amigr-tion population growth rate i. lower then the rate of maturo1 inroe,              /   1956-66.     /c  1966,
Ld  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         /e   Cover ing  7! million hectaree in
private land, ..ciuding 0.8 nillion hect.ree in public ownership. and 2.1 million hect.-e of colle-tiv- lord;
j   Pereonne   in governoet envceonly;            JR& Go-ernoet hoepite1 ..tablleceets only,         /h   1964-66,
REgieteredionly.
MAI.AYSLA:               1970:  WL.afet Malaysia;       /b. Regietered applic..nte for wrk,       /c   P.roon-e  in g-     -tnnm  e        -rlceoly,  Id  1964-66,
L.a piped water inside only.
CHINA. RiP. OF.          19 70 :     Due to iaoigration population growth rtet is hiRher than the race of natural increce;            lb  1966,     Ic  Ratio 01
population under 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor forco;         Id  Go-ermeet only,       /e  T.tol. arb.n e-nd total.
Pll, bsgoet 12, 1977
DEF?IKITICNS OP SOCIAL IDMICATORS
Lond Area ftheboc2a                                                                     P.pol.ti.n per nurina parean - Population divided by   n-bar of pr-ostcieg
Total1   Totl surface area comprising land area ad inland mase.o. and fan1l grad oats noec,tr-e"or"erid"                                          "   ose     nd
arvin. - Net recnt .atimats of arclua          rauad tanporariy or pee-a-                  oxlrypersenma      with treinleg oroooln
netly foe crops, psturma, earkat 6 kit.han garden   or to Its fallow                Ppouletion par hoseita1 bed - Population divided by noeber of hospital beds
available in public end private general .nd epecLaiaed hospital a-d
GlIP emr -Peits UUS  - GNP per capita eatimatee at current arkat prices,                 rebabilitarion canto.-, exld..ering bone. and .et.bihii       .. tnr  for
nainulat.d by same nonveeneo mthod as iorld gash Atlsa (1973-75 basis;;                 custodial and prevntive. cans.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                             Per cepits ecpply of c.loriaa it of reguirometsl - Compard fran enerey
eqaiv-lnt of net food euppli.e avilable in country per rapita par day,
Pon-Iation and vital actiuin;                                                             -va1ibla supplies comprise doasscic production. tmports     . les  eporca, aed
Pop.latino (,mid-year million)  A. of Muy firet:    if not available, averag              cbanges in stuck; ear euppli. lascclode animal feed, seed., qusn-iclea u-d
of rev sod-year eetimatess  15160, 1970 end 1975 data,                                  in food proneesing end loe.ee in dlstribution; requitmennta were .etianted
by PAO base.d on phyeiologic1 n..eds I foroIa activty and hesl,h  oneid-
Peoulatton denity    p ar exure be - Mid-year papultion per square kilter                 ating aevircomnta1 tamprnaturo   body nights, age and sea di-tribuciona of
(100 hrcauree) of total srea.                                                           populstion, end all1wig 10 8f    waste or household leve.
Population denait,   P ar seosre   of ageic. land - Computed as show   for              Par capita supply of prot.in  xr-   par dasi - Pr.t.in conract of per capita
1giuiu -lln  only.                                                               net supply of food per day; eat supply of food is dnfined a. above; rquir-
maca. for all countriee eatabliehed by USD0 t.oonoic Resea.rch Sarvic..
Vital statiatice                                                                          provide for a minimuma 1 ....anc  of 6i gras of total pnrti. per day, end
Crude birth ratc par thoas..d. awarass - Ane-uI live births per thousaand of              20 gr-n of antima snd polsa protsic, of which 10 gram    ebould ha animal
mid-year population; ten-year srIthmtin   averges ending in 196   and 1970,             protein; theaa etamdard. are Seer than those of 75 grs of total prosaic
and fin-year average endaing in 1975 for mat recet estimata.                            and 23 graa of animal protein.. .e.an avarag  for the world, proponod by FAO
Crude death rat, ear thsosased.  -.eR.s  - Annua  deaths par thouand of mid-year          in the Thind World Pond Survy.
population; tan-year arithati   avergags ending in 1960 end 1970 and fiv-             Per ..pit. protein supply from animl and rulee - Protntn aupply of food
yea   vrag   ening in 1975 for meet recent estimate,                                    derived from arimal   end puleas in grase per day.
Infant martlir4 ran   (/thou)   Annual deetbe of infants under one y..r of age          Dmath rata f/thou) aces 1-4 - A-nusi deetha per thousand in age group 1.
pen thu   -dlv    births.                                                               year. , to children in, this age grop; suegasrad aanindio-tor of
Life emnta       a irt   fvera   Average uaber of yuare EP life raining at                ea1-tritimn.
birth; usa~lly five-year avrgsending in 1960. 1970 and 1975 for davalop-
Groo   vrepodcion rats - averag. neber ef lice danght.re a wenan will bean              Adjusted srlntratio - primary achool - fnrollmant of sil agss 05 pe-
le her n.n-a reproductive period if she enperisnsat present age-epecific                contage of primary achnol-age poultin;inolud.s children, agd h-l1 year.
fer ti lity rot.; usually fiv-y-mar     , aea esmnding In 1960, 1970 end 1073           buc edjusnad for different lengths or primary ad..antion; for countriese with
for devlpngcsts.uni-eras1 odu..etion                                                                         anele       -y ..need SOOt ama. e      pupils ar  he1m
PsouLartion arond  rar  Cl  6 tatl.- Compoundannua growth r.ate    of nid-y..e            or above the offtica  schol age.
population for1900-60, 1     _070 and 1970-75.                                        Adlusted enrollment ratio - escndary school - Computed as above .econdary
Population rorth rate (I; - urban-Computred Ilkbe growth rats of total                    education requires st least four year, of appraved primary instruction,
population; differnot definitions of urban amee   may affect comparability of           pravide   general, vocations; or teac.her treinig instructions for pupils
dat  amngcoutries,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coumese are generally excluded.
Urba pouaion f of atatl; - gatio of urban no tost1 population; differen.t               Ymareof achoolino oraid.d (fOit and ascend levels; - Total yeare of
definitions of urban ares may    ffect -aparability of d.ta   .ag castnri.s.             schoolig; at secondary leve, voctinI InstrutIon my he partially or
completely emcludmd.
Ain etructure feprcat) - Children, (0-14 ye.n) , marking-age (15-64 Years),             Vocatioal enrollmet ft of secondrrl - Vanatimnal inatitutias Include
enZdrei.rad (65 yearsandoaver) enlpercentages of mid-year population.                   tftbajeal, ind-rtri1 or other prograesswich oper-te Independentlyors
in  eeoeo  ratio _ Rtio of pultion under 15 nod 61 and evr to tboee                 deparbents of secondary institutions.
of agne IS thronb   4.adl ltrary rate Cl) - Ll1r.tan                                                                      adults (bls -o -ad and -rite) se pe-
Economic deenadenc  ratio - Rtio of poultion under 15 and 65 and ovr tO                   tatg      ftota   adult population aged 15 years ad over.
the labor forc in g groupLof 151-6.4 y.sre.
Feniy eloole  - aceptrs (c   ultive. thou; - Cuoulative nuber of acceptors         H ... Ing
of birth-montrol d-vices under supinse of national Rally planning program              Prsona per roan furba.) - Averegs nanb.r of p--on     per roa, in ocrupied
eimca IncePtion.                                                                         conv-ttionl dwellings In urbanerse     duelling. exclude   o-nrnen
F-tly plannng     -- user   fof married wmase   P.- arcntag.e of married wan  of           structures and unoncupied psrte.
child.-hearIng age (15-44 years) abe usa birth -control d vic-  to all married         Occupid dwelings without plea    water Ml   - Occupied convectiona1 dunllitg.
semnine age group.                                                                    inurbpd and -rura  area. without Isida or outside piped wecnr facilitlie
sepretg  f sli onnupiad dwellings.
Employment                                                                               hnesto electrIci ty ft of all dwellings; - Convntional dwelling. with
Total labor, forts (thousand) - Econmeal-ly active persons, including smod                 electricity In living q- rtars as percent of total dwellings in orbs   and
forces end ueenplo'yd hot eluding houswives, tudents, ectc.; definitions                 -rurl   es
10vro  onrls are sot comparable.                                               Rural dellings connected to electrictity Mi   - Computnd as shov  for rore1
L.bor fon- ne Isari..lture p3 - Agricultural labor force (in farming, foreetry,            d-elilnge only.
hooting an   feinhi) se percetagep of ntal labor force.
ovnpoedf of lbor farce; - U.apoyd are uen1l       defined se person   who          Consumption
ars able and willing to   ab t.k s:,-ot of aJob on a given day, ronbod out             Radio re..eivare fear thou pop) - All types of rnclvern for radio br..cadI'll
of.ajob. and eanking ourk for a specified minimum period net amneeding one               to general public per theusend of populatton, -1rldes -tlice....d rerclv_rs
mashk; may not be conpareble btreeen, cuntries dun to differeent defiition.              in coun.tries and is yesrs wbe  regierratio  of radio eate was in effect.
of  namployad and source of data, e.g. , inploym  t office st.titi.., .-ple              d.t. for recan.t years may not be coparable einc. most countries aboliehed
-uvye, conpuleory unneplaymn      insurance.                                             itcensing.
Pacenercas      per thsu ppn) - P .....gEr oars caprise motor tare see tlog
Inca- die,tbrihutlon - Percentags of privet. incam (botb In cah and bind)                  lee  tan eFight persons; e-iudee ambclsnce, hearse. -d      titsry
receive  by rihet 5%, richeet 201%, pooret 201%, end poereet 40% of bauac-               vehicle..
holds.                                                                                 fEctriiitr (huh/yr ear cap) - Annual consumption of i.du tr.ia, caserciel,
poln an   privat  eleotricity in kiliouett houre per osptrs, ge-erIly
Dletribution of land owne-ehip - Peren.tages of land ownd by ...sIthleet lO7               base.d on production deto, without ellowac. for I-e,, In grids hot allo-
and poorest 10% of land onr.ing for Imports and aop orte of                                                                I niric itly.
Nwebarint (ha/vr ear cap) - Per capit   annual cosmtini         iogra
Health and Nutrition                                                                       eatimated Pram domestic production P pue nt ipoe of nweprint
Poua ner phyaicio.n - Population divded by numb- of practicing
physIciansqualified frin     ma dlaI school at univerity leve



-20 -                                           AINNEX I
Act,al                        Projctd-              19 65-  1970 -    1975 -   1980 -195                   jp
MATIONkL ACCOUN5                   19710    -1975       1276      i2         W       1970    195       18 1980            196
3-erAvere at1M-16           rcs&Echne, Rate~s            Av;erageAJnu1Got) ~As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Proa.uct           1,'e 1,'7       at ,1  i      2%,371.   2,69    3729        7     T7.7             6-87         108.3   1014.2   106. 2
Gains from Terms of Trade (.)        80       10      ..79       .102      .157    .301               ..         .        .        -8.3    .14.2    -6.2
Gross Domestic Income              **       7   ~    i~~        21'      2,14     3,4         9 1     14.7      6.3      6.2      r       1u  
Import (incl. ViS)                  331      5147     705         875      9144   1,1149    10.6      5.2      6.0      14.0      -314.2  -37.7   -37.1
=   uprts  'p (icport capacity)     350      5714     725         85              1:1        10.'4    14.8      14.5     5.2         .2
Resource Gap           19       27       ~~~       ~~~~     ~~~~~~20  -22  . is15 .      .                            2.0     1.0     - 1.5
Consumption Expenditures           753     1,151    i,1421      1,7114   1,925    2,608       9.0    14.3       6.3      6.3       77.8    75.9     75.8
Investmsnt   "1 (incl. stocks)      196      310      1432        580      656      806      9.6      6.9      8.7      14.2      20.2     23.1    25.8
Domestic Savings                    216      338      1452        558      616      820       9.14    6.o      6.14      5.9       22.3    214.1    214.2
National Savings                    169      255      3140        14214    1469     653       8.6     5.9       6.6      6.9       17.5    18.1     18.14
MERCHANDISE TRAME                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
Imports2311157.
Capital1 goods                     61      111      315         637       750   1,292     12.7     134       8.9      11        23.9     271     30.4
Intermediate goods 61Lfusls)       141      85      210         307      397      875     15.7    1.9.8     1.3.6     17.1      16.1     18.0    16.1
N'ela and related materials        13       18       157        2014      266     5114     6.7     514.8    11.1      114.0       5.1    13.5     10.8
Consumer goods                    1140     218      1482        799    1,052    1,5914     9.3     17.2     16.9       8.7      514.9   141.14   142.7
Toa      oc.1s3t       coif)      Sr      -Tr     i-IW        l1       27M     14-,7      11.1     22.0     16.2      11.6    -1U-      !oo-    YO-
rts
1~xin agricultural produ0tsA/       213      3142     7143      1,253    1,1414   1,9145     9.9     16.8     1.3.7      2.5      714.5    59.8     57.8
Other agricultural products        17       26       145         91      120      2141     8.9     11.6     21.7       5.7       5.9      3.6     14.9
Manufactured goods                140      100      358         50C0      710   1,587     20.0     29.00'   114.6      I.',1.0 o         2.8      29.0
All other goods                    16       29       97         153       2014    663     1.2.7    27.3      16.7      6.o        5.6     7.9      8.3
Total Rmerh. Ilorts (fob)       -M       -        1--27       1,7997   27,M     14T"      11.7     20.2     114.5     14.2     1-30.    100.07  fo
M4erchandise Trade Indices          79        Average 17-6q      100                          57      1.          .        .
Export Price Index              789      103 .9   181.       239       267     352         57      1.         .         .
Import Price Index              91.5     98.7     2141       273       313     14144       1.5     19.2      9.0       7.2
Terms of Trade Index            86.2     108.3     76.3        88       86       79        14.1    -6.7      2.0      -1.8
Exports Volume Index            88.8    114       167        2014      225      313        5.14     7.9      6.2       6.9
VALtUE ADDED BY SECTOIR            AnnualI DataL at 1967.69 Prices end Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total1
Agriculture                     366      1426       14714     5142      6'12     813,      3.1      2.2      5.3       5.9     35.1     214.14  23.6
Industry and Mining             173       287       4114      573       667     971       10.6      7.6     10.0       7,9     16.6     21.3    25.6
Service                          502      766    1057        1,268    i,4l 14M~           8.8      6.7      6.o       6.~     1.3 4-3  514.3   50.8
Total                         17         77fy9   ifL675     2-        2T~   8377           7.3      5.6      6.7       6.7    i13T   i"Th     6roTh 
PUJBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                     As Percent of GOP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                213       297      377        141414    515      697       6.9     14.9      6.L    ~   .      2C.3     19.14   2C.3
CurretEpniue                     155      231      30           38       373     176       8.3      5.9      14.7-     I. L.8           15.8    114.5
aigeay  aiturs           --                   70       -26        -1142-   3321      2.6      1.2     15.?       9.3      5.5      3.6     5.5
Other Public Sector              214       75       95         151      1614     212      25.7     14.8     11.5       5.3      2.3      14.9    6.14
Public Sector Investment         90       158      296         393      1453     508      11.9    13.14      3.9       2.3      8.5    15.2     17.6
DETAIL ON                                 US $ Millions
CURRENT EXPENDITUJRE DETAIL.S                 Actual        Prelim.   Est.     Proj.        PUBLIC SECTOR                         at end 1968 P and ER
As$TtlCurrent Expend.)            16        To       1975      1976    18o          INVSTMENT PROGRAMe                        Plan. 1971-75
Eductio                                 17.9    21I.1425.3         27.-      F 220                                                                  of total
Other Social Services                   10.14   11.14      11.8     1.2.0   114.0         Agricultural development                  349               31
Agriculture                              14.6    5.2        3.6      3.5     14.0         Economic infrastr.cture                   561               50
Public Works                            13.0    10.3        6.5      6.5      5.0           - Power                          134              12
Other Economic Services                  3.5     7.14      10.2     10.0     10.0           - Industry                        69               6
Administration and Defense             357.0    28.8       21.9     22.0     25.0           - Transport and Telecom.         221              20
Other                         13.6    15.5       20.7 ~~~0.O       eO.O           - Urban Development              137              12
Total Current Expenditures            100.0   100.0      10.0      100.0   100.0          Education and Culture                     101                9
Health and Social Develop.                 53                5 
SEL.ECTED3 INDICATORS                             1960-      1965-    1970-    1973-        Administ ration infrastructure             46                4
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)            1969       1970     1975     1978         Studies and Research                       13               1
Average ICOR                                        TW          F     -3-    T                                                      1,123              100
Import Elasticity                                  0.5       1.14      0.9     0.9          FINANCING
H3rginal Domestic Savings Rate                     0.18      0.22      0.30    0.25             Public Sector Savings                 557              49.6
Marginal National Savings Rate                     0.12      0.16      0.214   0.20             Program aid counterpart
Foreign Project Aid                   566               50.4
Total                               1.123              100.0
L,AWR FORCE AND                                Total Labor Force                                Value Added Per Worker (1!47    69  Prices & Rac. Rates)
oUnTuT PER WORKER                 in Millions        %   fToa            19 65 - 73        In U.S.Dollars      Percent of Avernge        19   -
1965  1973  i986~~~~~~~  1973   Growth Nate         195        1973       19 65     1973       Grwt Rt
Agriculture                    1,7143     2,093    85.7      312.i          3.2            209        215        140.14     30.6          0.3
Industry                        1143        2314    7.6        9.2         6.14          1,210      1,513       2314.0    215.2          -1.0
Service                         .27        -201     6.7        8.0            9          3,22       4,835       761.6     687.8           2.6
Total                         2,013       2,527   I00.       100.0          3.7            517        703       100.0      100.0          3.9
-,st applicable         nl. or nealia.1-I             14/ Coffee. cocoa, timber, pal-m oil, palm 'Kernel, copra, pineapple.                   February 1977
.ict avaIlabie       .        1,f bal-'



- 21--                                                             ANN~EX I
BLAIdV= 0?pumi;       laL ANOA1M5 AMD MN
(~4t.  6 aJ.lme  ru.s. doUham at owetp~oa
2       Actual                       Rst1iattd                                  pjected                                   Oowtb Rate
Exort. (lool. 515)                   590.2       718.1      1,000.9    1,386.2       1,694.s.     1,811.2    2,168.8     281.6       2580        2813       31151.
606.5        1,        ,6.8       1, 307. 2     1,554.2     1,754r,4    2,0778.     2,2.8: : 372.  2,735.0  2906       3,163.8         12.6
Reoo,woe hiance ID-N)  !DT* ~~~~~~~~~~TDF'    7~~~7~~  ~~t~9Th     ~~~               9-0.5      -91.1     -197.1      .169.2    ~     '.7
Ofreot Iowee88e.nt I.nooua  .61.6  -62.6  -80 6  -83 6     -98.0       -1o6.8       116 6       125 9164  -126 38.318.3  -150.8   -i62.98 9
W4orkers' Roadtttwo                   .67.6      .92.6       -~323      -26S          -162.3       -152.3     -162.9      -172.7      -183.1     -122         199 95 
Private Dlreot Tnveaftnt               16.8       16.7         68.0       27.9          29.1.       60.0        67,2       113 3       166. 0      138.1      106 7         23.9
Ofmnl.lCapitt.lDee.U4                 13.0        15.1         17.1       16.6          18.7         19.6       19,6        19. 6       19.6        19.6       19.6          0.9
Mebase..cta                        107. 3       82.7       228.0       218.8         335. 6      378.8       363.2       558.0       632.-3     652.7       5 33.6         8.3
-ReO    "t,ot                       -29.1       -38.6       .6143       .76.6         -81.8      -125.0      -126.0      -152.6      -215.2     .238.2      -66.          -21.7
Other ML 88.3 m bane038                                                                                                                                        4-
mts                          s    6      -~~~~2.7   -6.2                        -                                              -         -6.1         -7.0
-,,,p,lym            411-                                                         4~-2  -.3      --                     2.6       103.8       138.2
Capital Tr --- c66o-neO..i.           -6.6       -23.5       .63.1        32.3        -66.9          -           -           --                     -           -
Ch-ge in Net ReNarvec  .   imrseo.)   U.5         76.9         10.3      -87.3         166. 1      -98.2       -87.6       -81.9       -40.0      -20.5       -15.3
Gross rtecron a89.S                              87.2         88.6        65.7        106.8
Offiolal Gra..t. & De.Ot-lika         13.0        15. 1        17.1       17.0          19. 1                                                     A7toal
P7blit                               27.         1.T           .6        27.          13.       Fm            0..t aum&  abmed  351.7  399.9     578.6     736.7       969.2
205D                                27.         17-         87.5        27-          1
OerD5.                                          16.9        32.         323                      llntarwt an Nablc Debt     15.6      19.3      27.9      38.3       56.1i
Otrer )(St9lIerl                                 -            -2:       -2.                      5pauagnts en po1411. Debt   29.1      38.6      66.3      76.6        82. 5
lovnroo.eoto   16.5       56,2         26.2        68.6         51.5   ~~~       FOSolic Debt Sezce    66.74     57.9     72.2     561.9      133.6
SOtpl      aioro                    26.7        65.         729         8.57.                      t~   ~    ano    xt         .         .6       2.7       4.j         6.7
Fisan-ia.   I,,titotlooo            63.0        62.3        119.1      130. 6         86.7       Tota    Dot Service (not)   33.0      63.5      76.9     119.1       163.3
Do.s.                                -           -           9.0         -u$                               nbot-r-        S
Psblic loanmne1                                              -           --                  ~       ~      r    220     8
701.1. PublIc 55.7 1~  ~             ~~** I 9.                                           Public Debt Service           7.5       8.1       7.        8089
___                      Actinel ~~~~~~~      ~~Debt Det 5sll, onI.3. sTotal Debt Santo.                       8.9       8.        7.5       8.3        9.2
ErrmuL  DM                   ODWOO  awy                ere-tM-Dirct Dwt. Zo. 1___i4.                                               15.5      16.1        13.5
hrld Wik'                                     72.5                    7     .5                  Avarae Tam      of PobIjo Debt
70A                                             1.3                    0.1
other Doltlilatraj.                            65. 5                    6.7bi.a                                 DO                 4       48         8       52           .
Cloce"rceto                                   235.6                   24.3                        ADub. Ad 10OW                  6.6      .6.       7.8      30.2         3.8
q~~~~~on13o,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~269.2                          27.8                           or.a     1o.               83        96         .7      06          85
Fionannia    TeI~titutim                      271.3                   28.0                        MD Dabt ODt. A Diebvsed
Borasc~6o    l..                               23.2                    2.6                           a     % Pahij.I Debt OlD    3.0      6.6       5.0       6.7        7.3
Totl Ubli Chh 13 Debt                          IQ&                    .3.2..                      "a      % Public Dabt Service  1.3      2.6       3.3       2.7         6.5
T.t.1 Pbli. HUT  Debt        AF2-                  ~~~~~100.0
Oth-r 561T Deteebt.t Det. & 06nbln.a40
rh.rt-t..n Debt (diob. oray.)                   ..                                                                               -         -Det- -r -o
not applicable                               e et~~~~~~~~~~~~~aff .ntimte                                                                            *b~ra,y 1977
not available                                                  rdOl or reg1igtble
-. ct valble .Fpurt.12                                      1- am     thus 0a   4 h
t5 Inlsd.d i0 .01 totali.st .ocit ebqe



- 22 -                  ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of October 31, 1977)
US$ Millions
Loan or                                                   (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year   Borrower          Purpose          Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
Nine          Loans  Fully Disbursed                    47.7
686-IVC       1970   Ivory Coast       Cocoa             5.3                  0.5
760-IVC       1971   SODEPALM          Oil Palm &        5.1                  0.2
Coconut
761-IVC       1971   Ivory Coast       Highways II      20.5                  0.2
837-IVC       1972   Ivory Coast       Highways III     17.5                  1.7
938-IVC       1973   SOCATCI           Rubber            8.4                  2.1
406-IVC       1973   Ivory Coast       Highways IV               7.5          0.8
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast       Telecom-         17.4                 17.1
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast       Cocoa II         20.0                 17.2
1076-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast       Abidjan           9.0                  6.4
Sewerage
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast       Cotton           31.0                 27.7
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast       Tourism           9.7                  9.1
1125-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast       Education II      5.0                  3.1
1161-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast       Highways V       43.0                 26.3
1162-IVC      1975   CCI               DFC               5.6                  5.6
1177-IVC      1975   BIDI              DFC               8.0                  8.0
1297-IVC/1    1976   CIMAO             Industry          3.5                  3.5
1347-IVC/1    1976   Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.       30.0                 30.0
1348-T-IVC/1 1976    Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.       14.0                 14.0
1382-IVC/1    1977   SODEPALM          Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                 20.0
1484-IVC/1    1977   Ivory Coast       Water Supply     16.0                 16.0
1490 IVC/1    1977   RAN               Railway          23.0                 23.0
TOTAL                                      359.7      7.5       232.5
of which has been repaid              12.3      -
TOTAL now outstanding                      347.4      7.5
Amount sold                          5.2
of which has been repaid        2.9     2.3      -
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA               345.1      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                          231.7      0.8       232.5
/1   Not yet effective.



- 23 -                  ANNEX II
B.  Statement of IFC Investments
(As of October 31, 1977)
Year     Obligor                        Type of        Loan   US Dollars   Total
Business                Equity
1965     Banque Ivoirienne              Industrial      -       204,000   204,000
de Developpement             Development
Industriel                   Bank          _
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles                880,000   880,000
Total gross commitments                        -     1,084,000 1,084,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                    _        _           _
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                  -     1,084,000 1,084,000



- 24 -                  ANINEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 760           First Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:   Three loans for a
total of US$17.1 million of June 13, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975. Second Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:
Two loans for a total of US$7.0 million of June 22, 1971;
Closing Dates: June 30, 1975, and November 30, 1977.
These projects are being implemented satisfactorily and are almost fully dis-
bursed. The oil mills financed in these projects processed about 220,000 tons
of fruits in 1976. The planting programs are proceeding well.
Ln. No. 686           Cocoa Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of June 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978.
The Cocoa Loan has been amended to reduce the number of hectares to be rehabil-
itated. Difficulties arose in supervising large numbers of farmers who used
project inputs to treat non-project cocoa. The Government agreed to substan-
tially reduce the size of the rehabilitation program. (See Memorandum to the
Executive Directors R73-74 of April 13, 1973.) The project was originally
scheduled to be completed in September 1976. However, with the signing of
the Second Cocoa Project (Ln. 1069-IVC), administration of the two has been
combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa plantings were transferred from
the first to the second project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from
the amendment (R73-74) and the merging of the two projects were cancelled
at the date of signature of the second project. Physical execution of the
first project is therefore considered to be completed. The final disburse-
ment has been delayed due to a confusion over documentation requirements and
processing by the Government external debt agency. When this disbursement,
and the final payment of capitalized interest have been made, approximately
US$200,000 would remain for cancellation.
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:   US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-25 -                   ANNEX II
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:   US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
December 30, 1977.
The maintenance and betterment programs are progressing satisfactorily. Con-
struction work for the pavement strengthening program started in March 1975;
contract amount is about 120 percent over appraisal estimates due to inflation
and modification of design standards. The Government has agreed to finance
all overruns. Construction of the bridge and the urban development study for
Abidjan have been satisfactorily completed.
Cr. No. 406           Fourth Highway Project: US$7.5 million Credit of June 28,
1973; Effectiveness Date: May 8, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Construction works on the road started about one year behind schedule and
progress since then has been slower than expected. Project costs are about
70 percent above appraisal estimates due to inflation and adoption of higher
construction standards than originally envisaged. The Government will assume
financing of all cost overruns. Construction of the N'zi River bridge and
the feeder road study have been satisfactorily completed.
Ln. No. 938           Rubber Plantation Project:   US$8.4 million Loan of
October 23, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to slow progress in the planting program and as a result of higher-than-
expected inflation, funds under this project will only cover plantation of
about 7,000 ha which is not expected to be completed before 1979 (the total
foreseen at appraisal was 13,500 ha). Co-lenders met in January 1976 to
decide on the continuation of the planting program. The Bank has agreed
to amend the Loan Agreement to reflect the reduced planting (Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976). In September
1977 the Government has announced the dissolution of SOCATCI, the Borrower
under this loan, one of a number of measures presently being taken to restruc-
ture the agriculture sector. The Government has given assurances that it
intends to complete the project as amended in September 1976 and has asked
the Bank to continue disbursements under the loan. The Bank has stated its
willingness to continue disbursing as soon as the Government has made satis-
factory arrangements for carrying the project forward and has asked that no
further disbursements requests should be submitted until these arrangements
have been renegotiated.
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications-Project:   US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Government has awarded the contract for switching equipment to other than
the lowest evaluated bidder. Thus, the amount earmarked under this loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was cancelled
as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). Financing by the Bank of the remaining three
components is expected to proceed in accordance with the guidelines.



- 26 -                 ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
More than 50 percent of the total planting foreseen for the five-year project
period was completed in 1976. Block plantings have been lagging behind due to
difficulties in infrastructure development. Disbursements are currently two
years behind project execution due to problems in establishing a system to
provide the necessary documentation and format for withdrawal applications. A
recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement to have withdrawal
applications prepared by the executing agency should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:   US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:   US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.
Disbursements are currently two years behind project execution due to problems
in establishing a system to provide the necessary documentation and format for
withdrawal applications. A recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissement to have withdrawal applications prepared by the executing agency
should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:   US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Three sub-projects (US$2.9 million, US$2.5 million and US$400,000) have been
approved.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:   US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Good progress is being made in provision of technical assistance. The studies
of regional training needs, legislation for vocational training and management
of educational TV are under way; plans are well advanced for the preparation
of an inventory of secondary school facilities. The design of project insti-
tutions is some twelve months behind schedule, but is now proceeding satisfac-
torily.



- 27 -                  ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Anyama-Agboville road and the pavement strengthening pro-
gram started at the beginning of 1976 and is progressing satisfactorily. Con-
sultants have started the engineering studies provided for under the project.
UNDP was originally to finance the updating of the transport survey but cannot
do so due to lack of funds. The Government has agreed to amend the Loan Agree-
ment to include financing of the survey in this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:   US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Sub-projects for about US$600,000 have been approved; others are being pre-
pared by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial intermediary,
and are expected to be submitted to the Bank shortly.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297 1/       CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The first regional industrial venture in West Africa, co-financed by seven
other official aid agencies, is proceeding satisfactorily. Financing arrange-
ments are on schedule. Procurement is proceeding according to plan: the most
important contract - for raw mills and kilns - has been awarded.
Ln. No. 1347 1/       Urban Development Project:   US$44.0 million.  Loans
and 1348-T 1/         (US$30.0 million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
The East-West Highway contract and most of the contracts for studies and tech-
nical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1382 1/       Fourth Oil Palm Project:   US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Plantation for the first year and land clearing is progressing satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1484 1/       Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:   US$16 million.
Loan of September 9, 1977; Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
Ln. No. 1490 1/       Regional Railway Project:   US$23 million.  Loan of
November 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
1/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -                  ANNEX III
IVORY COAST
Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
SECTION I
Timetable of Key Events
a) Project Identification
i)  Identification mission for                  July 1976
maintenance component
ii)  Identification of feeder roads              July/September
component by RMWA                           1976
iii) Feeder roads improvement study
(financed under Loan 1161-IVC)              October 1976
b)  Appraisal Mission                                 November/December 1976
c)  Post-Appraisal Mission                           March 1977
d)  Negotiations                                     October 1977
e)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                       March 1978
SECTION II
Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III
1.        Special conditions in the Loan Agreement are that:
(a) The Planning and Programming Department of the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism would, by June 30, 1978,
determine standards for maintenance operations for the various
road categories and outline a long-term strategy for maintaining
the total road networK (para. 44 of this report);



- 29 -                  ANNEX III
(b) design standards of feeder roads would be determined on the
basis of criteria, agreed upon with the Government (para.
49);
(c) the Government would maintain with its own financial resources
a minimum of an additional 2,000 km of feeder roads in 1978
and 5,000 km by 1982 (para. 49);
(d) the consultants would train Ivorian instructors to carry on the
road maintenance training program when the consultants are
phased out (para. 51);
(e) the Government would carry out a study for the review of freight
traffic distribution between rail and road and of the subsidy
and taxation system for freight traffic (para. 51); and
(f) procurement of equipment for the feeder roads and betterment
units for the second project year would be contingent upon
availability of the necessary qualified Ivorian personnel to
carry out the training program (para. 63).
2.        A special condition of disbursement would be the creation of a
feeder roads section in the Directorate of Road Maintenance in the MPWTCU
(paras 48 and 52).






IBRD 12899R
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL L19777
IVORY  COAST       ;OM      A  L  I   Z            -P,;f,;o&A R te4pfK49T0Al  os-m  TtOIS97/d 44C.4C..............o4,taEa
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT                                         'R E' W 8 ,f,___,PnOtECT
ToTor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oTo  P   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -01    .
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      . t ) -  -  --  Co4  oo,       O  _hrhraSLOMETEAS
dj   -  TITC CunlOO  ) UPPER  VOLTA  .  To  (
(E {  _                                                                 ' FEFKESSED GRECOU  F. -
N AT  NAL  PARK
{r c             F ,   A E
TOUE                  4  A-
-. rSSgu3n3  ' L . ,  -  'S  4  C - '<g AT OLA  r               6
(  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ,o~~~~~~~Sk- Oz  ,oo 
,  , fgf   \   \ MZGGh7koOO   >  S~~~~PARK 01 T       / ~ ~ i F  7  Ap nbOk- <
gQ.fl'<                                                 *'*.    4/1No0
. "-Q~~~~~~~~~-/  0.6k-ckr                  ;    o4oos7              G H A  N  A
> - A ^,,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  on no  do5oog,  0oC  066  Al 7 Pd 7 oo n 4T
\\,~ ~ X                            AGAdESey, TIlA NT/ IC  O CCEA NV  --    WJ!4    CMEZW
4                                                          TT40004440,44404 04 440 nopOo 404~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABNGORO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~p  IGL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 420444 000P40 04
b...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~040 4k4244 9444



