L$- 15o1           VC
Report No. 1611-IVC
Appraisal of a Feeder Road and
Highway Maintenance Project
Ivory Coast
December 1, 1977
Western Africa Projects
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This docunient has a restricted dinribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official dLiLies. ILs contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    CFAF
US$1.00          245 CFAF
CFAF 1         = US$0.004
CFAF I million = US$4,081
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures   Metric
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2                     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )                    0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)                              2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)                        2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB       African Development Bank
BCEOM     Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer
(Consultants, France)
CATP      Centre d'Application de Travaux Publics
CDLT      Central Directorate of Land Transport (MPWTCU)
CNBF      Centre National des Bureaux de Fret
DER       Directorate of Road Maintenance (MPWTCU)
DERP      Directorate of Periodic Maintenance (MPWTCU)
DCMITP    Central Directorate of Equipment (MPWTCU)
DCPW      Central Directorate of Public Works (MPWTCU)
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FRAR      Fonds Regionaux pour l'Amenagement Rural
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
LBTP      Laboratoires de Batiment et des Travaux Publics
CEBTP     Centre d'Etudes de Batiment et des Travaux Publics (France)
HPWTCU    Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism
RAN       Regis des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger
SDPI      Sub-Directorate of Programming and Investment (MPWTCU)
SETEC     Societe d'Etudes Techniques et Economiques (Consultants, France)
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF A FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENACGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .... ...........................           ........     i-li
I.   INTRODUCTION ...................................                             1
2.   BACKGROUND ....................................                              2
A.    Geographic and Demographic Setting ........................           2
B.    Economic Setting . . .....   .................                        2
C.   Rural Economy ................................*............            3
D.    The Transport System ......................................           3
E.    Transport Planning and Coordination      .........   .........        5
3.    THE ROAD SECTOR ..    ............................     ........             6
A.    The Road Network ............................            ....         6
B.    Road Traffic ...       ..............................     ...         7
C.   Road Transport Industry .........................e                     8
D.    Administration .................................           .....      8
E.    Financing       ...............................          .....        9
F.    Engineering and Construction ..........................              10
G.   Maintenance ...............................................           11
4,    THE PROJECT ....... ............................                           14
A.   Description ..........v**@****>*o*e*es                                14
A. escipion.....     .................................              14
B.    Feeder Road Program .     e ..... ... ..........          ......14
C.    Betterment Program for Primary and Secondary Roads .......           15
D.    Regional Workshops       ............    . ..............            15
E.    Technical Assistance ................ ......................         15
F.    Cost Estimate ..............................o*     ..      ......    17
G.    Execution .................   .............................          20
H.    Procurement .............         ......              ........       24
I.   Financing and Disbursements ...........         o..............       24
5. *   CONOMIC AND SOCIAL EVALUATION .......................... .......25
A.    Objectives ............... ................*...............          25
Bo    Economic Justification ....    ................. .o .........        25
C.    Traffic Estimates ..... ........  ... ....o. ... . .o...........  e e  26
D.    Vehicle Operating Costs . ........ .        ......................   27
E.    Construction and Maintenance Costs.......................            28
F.    Overall Evaluation of the Feeder Road
and Road Betterment Programs ... . .......        ..28
6.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...........................          29
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Itn contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Sank authorization.



2
TABLES
1. Development of the Rural Road Network 1971-76
2. Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1976
3. Road Sector Expenditure and Financing 1971-76
4. Revenues from Road User Taxes
5. Feeder Road Design Standards
6. Equipment to be Purchased for Improvement of Feeder Roads
7. Equipment to be Purchased for Betterment Program
8. Technical Assistance to DCMTP & DERP
9. Financing of Project Costs
10. Project Costs
11. Schedule of Implementation
12. First Year's Feeder Road Improvement Program (1978/79)
13. Roads Tentatively Selected for Betterment Program
14. Training Program for DCMTP's Staff
15. Key Personnel to be Assigned to Consultants
for Betterment Program and Equipment Repair
16. Economic Costs and Benefits for Betterment Program
17. Traffic Composition and Vehicle Operating Cost Savings for
Betterment Program
18. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
ANNEXES
1. Bank Group Activities in the Road Sector
2. Agricultural Background
3. Details of Technical Assistance to Ministry of Public Works, Transport,
Construction and Urbanism (MPWTCU) for Feeder Road Works
4. Guidelines for Evaluation and Planning of Feeder Road Works
5. Economic Evaluation of Feeder Road Works
6. Terms of Reference for a Study on the Modal Distribution of Traffic
Between Road and Rail
CHARtT
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport,
Construction and Urbanism (MPWTCU)
MAP
Feeder Road and Highway Maintenance Project, Ivory Coast, IBRD 12899R



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Agriculture and forestry account for about 30% of GDP and 80% of
Ivory Coast's exports. About 75% of the population depends directly or
indirectly on agriculture and forestry. The .Government is giving high
priority to increasing agricultural production and improving road infra-
structure to facilitate and support economic growth and social develop-
ment.
ii.       The transport system of the Ivory Coast consists of about 45,200 km
of roads, 640. km of railways, two major seaports, about 400 km of navigable
lagoons, two airports of international standard and twenty-five airfields
for domestic services. The system is focuse& on Abidjan, the capital city,
principal port and commercial center. Roads are the principal mode for
domestic transport, carrying about 75% of total freight and 80% of total
passenger movements.
iii.      The road network is generally adequate in extent, but many roads
are of too low a standard to serve the rapidly increasing traffic volumes.
Also, road maintenance has been inadequate even though it has significantly
improved over the last years.
iv.       The Bank Group has had five lending operations for road devel-
opment in the Ivory Coast. They have included construction and pavement
strengthening of about 600 km of primary roads and reorganization and im-
provement of highway maintenance; project implementation has generally been
satisfactory.
v.        The proposed project consists of:   (a) a 3-1/2 year program for
the improvement and subsequent maintenance of feeder roads using six force
account brigades and contractors; (b) a 3-1/2 year program for the better-
ment of unpaved primary and seconidary roads by two force account brigades;
(c) construction of regional workshops; (d) procurement of maintenance and
workshop equipment; and (e) technical assistance to (i) assist and train local
staff in planning, implementing and monitoring the feeder road improvement and
maintenance programs, (ii) assist in installation and organization of regional
workshops and train the local personnel in equipment maintenace and repair, and
(iii) prepare a study on modal traffic distribution.
vi.       Execution of the project would be the responsibility of the Min-
istry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism. To implement the
feeder road program, a new Feeder Roads section would be created within
the Directorate of Road Maintenance.



vii.      Total project costs are estimated at US$63.2 million, including
US$9.6 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Project costs, net of taxes
and duties, are estimated at US$53.6 million equivalent with foreign exchange
costs of US$29.0 million (54%). The proposed loan of US$29.0 million would
cover the foreign exchange costs of the project. The Government's contribu-
tion would be US$24.6 million plus tax of US$9.6 million equivalent.
viiie     Equipment, spare parts, material and supplies amounting to about
US$13.0 million and civil works estimated at US$8.0 million, net of taxes,
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for equipment, spare
parts, material and supplies costing less than US$50,000 wou'ld be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding following local procedures acceptable
to the Bank; the total amount will not exceed US$1.5 million. Contracts
for small civil works would also be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following local procedures acceptable to the Bank; the total amount
will not exceed US$1.2 million.
ix.       institution building and training of local personnel is of pri-
mary importance in the proposed project; therefore, a considerable techni-
cal assistance element is included in the-project. However, the technical
assistance will be phased out, and during its last year the project will
be managed entirely by Ivorian personneL.
x.        The feeder road improvement works will yield a rate of return of
about 24% and the betterment of unpaved primary and secondary roads will
yield a rate of about 36%. The combined economic rate of return of these
two project elemencs is estimated at 29%.
xi.       The proposed project is suitable for a loan to the Government
of the Ivory Coast in the amount of US$29.0 million. The Loan term would
be 17 years with a 4-year grace period.



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AISD HIGHWAY IAINTENAMNCE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Ivory Coast's road network consists of about 45,200 km of roads
and tracks. In the past road investments concentrated. on improvement and
maintenance of the primary and secondary network. However, the 1976-1980
Development Plan places increased emphasis on the improvement and maintenance
of the tertiary and non-classified (feeder road) network and allocates about
20% (an estimated US$58 million) of the US$286 million for road investments
for this purpose. The Government's objective is to provide reliable, all-
weather access to villages and areas inadequately served by roads. The
proposed project supports the Government's policy of improving the feeder
road network and continues Bank assistance for highway maintenlance of un-
paved primary and secondary roads.
1.02      The project would be the Bank's sixth lending operation for road
development in the Ivory Coast. The previous operations have included con-
struction and pavement strengthening of about 600 km of primary roads and
reorganization and improvement of highway maintenance. The execution of
the projects has generally been satisfactory, despite considerable cost
overruns under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects due to inflation and
an increase in design standards. In a few cases, the Government increased
the design standards above those agreed upon and considered adequate. Because
of this, it is important that future projects require that changes in road
standards from those agreed upon at negotiations be clearly justified under
criteria approved by the Bank. The Government is meeting all cost overruns.
The present system of planning and administration has worked fairly well, and
the Government has established a Department of Planning and Programming in the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism (MPWTCU) under
the Fifth Highway Project to advise on optimizing the allocation of resources
for future transport investments. The Bank's previous activities in the road
sector are described in Annex 1.
1.03      The proposed project will start upgrading the feeder road network
through improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 3,600 km of feeder
roads over a 3-1/2 year period and training of Ivorian staff. It will also
provide continued assistance for highway maintenance for primary and second-
ary roads started under a previous Bank project by strengthening betterment
work and periodic maintenance, and by improving equipment maintenance and
repair through training of Ivorian personnel and construction of workshop
facilities.
1.04      Total project costs are estimated at US$63.2 million, including
US$9.6 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Project costs net of taxes
and duties are estimated at US$53.6 million equivalent with foreign exchange
costs of US$29.0 million (54%). The proposed loan of US$29.0 million would
finance all foreign exchange costs of the project. All local costs (US$24.6
million) and taxes would be met by the Government.



-2-
1.05      This report is based on studies carried out by the consultants
Bureau Central pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer (BCEOM, France) and on
findings of an appraisal mission in December 1976 and a post appraisal
mission in March 1977 by Messrs. Hertel, Tessier-Viennois and Fellinghauer
(engineers) and Bonney and Mrs. Sebastian (economists).
2. BACKGROUND
A. Geographic and Demographic Setting
2
2.01      The Ivory Coast, with a land area of 322,500 km , is situated on
the Gulf of Guinea and bordered on the west by Liberia and Guinea, on the
north by Mali and Upper Volta and on the east by Ghana. The topography of
the country is generally flat or rolling although mountains rising to 1,200 m
are found in the west and northwest. Climate and vegetation vary consider-
ably between the north and south partly as a function of rainfall. In the
northern savannah zone, rainfall is between 1,000 and 1,500 mm a year, and
in the southern tropical forest zone it is between 1,500 and 2,000 mm a year.
The greater part of the country has readily available supplies of laterite
which are important for road building.
2.02      The population is estimated to have been about 6.7 million in 1975
with approximately 4.6 million living in rural areas and 2.12 million in the
urban centers. Included in the estimated population are about 2.0 million
immigrant workers and their families-mainly from Mali, Upper Volta and Togo.
The population, including net migration, is estimated to have increased at
3.9% per year for the period 1970-1975 (2.4% in rural areas and 7.5% in urban
areas). Between 1975 and 1980, population in rural areas is expected to grow
at about 2.5% per annum, in Abidjan at about 10.4% and in other urban centers
-at about 6.8%. These rates are expected to decline after 1980.
B.  Economic Setting
2.03      The economy is based on a diversified agriculture and timber export
industry which contributed about 30% of the CFAF 826 billion (US$3.37 bil-
lion) Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1975. Transport industries accounted
for about 10% of total GDP. Per capita GDP was estimated at CFAF 123,800
(US$505) in 1975, which was appreciably higher than for other countries in
Western Africa. However, within the country there are large regional varia-
tions ranging from the poor areas in the north to the relatively rich in the
south.
2.04      The country's balance of trade has been consistently in surplus
since 1960. Agricultural and timber products comprise about 80% of exports,
although other exports have been growing steadily. Political stability and
an active investment policy has led to a high economic growth rate; in the



-3-
15 years since independence (1960-1975) the average annual growth rate of
GDP in real terms was 7.4% and during the period 1970-1975 it was about 5.6%.
This economic growth must continue if the country is to be able to finance
development on the scale anticipated.
C. The Rural Economy
2.05      Annex 2 describes the agricultural background.   The economy remains
and will remain in the foreseeable future firmly dependent on a diversified
agriculture and timber industry, although, the secondary and tertiary sec-
tors of the economy have been growing at a faster rate than the primary
sectore Primary sector activities range from large, industrialized planta-
tions and timber operations to peasant farmers, livestock breeders and fish-
ermen. Large-scale agriculture mainly produces pineapples, coconuts, oil
palm, rubber and sugar cane; small farmers, although participating in the
production of these crops, are particularly active in the cultivation of
cocoa, coffee, cotton, bananas, rice and basic food crops.
2.06      Pineapple, coconut, oilpalm, rubber, banana and cocoa are culti-
vated in the southern part of the country. Coffee is grown in the center
and west and cotton in the north. Food crops are grown throughout the
countL 7.
2.07      Industrial and export crops have maintained an average annual
growth rate of about 5% in real terms over the past 10 years, and the Devel-
opment Plan for 1976-1980 anticipates that this rate will be maintained or
even increased for some crops such as cotton. Reserves of useful timber
have declined consi erably and attempts are being made to stabilize produc-
tion at 4 million m /year and to increase exports of sawn timber rather than
logs.
2.08      Most ministries engage in activities in rural areas; the Ministry
of Agriculture and the Ministry of Water and Forests particularly are con-
cerned with the primary industry sector.   In addition, several autonomous
development societies deal with development of particular crops. There are
also two regional development organizations, l'Autorite pour l'Amenagement de
la Region du Sud-Ouest (ARSO) for the south-west of the country and l'Autorite
pour l'Amenagement de la Vallee du Bandama (AVB) for the Bandama Valley.
Specialized organizations exist for agricultural credit, cooperatives, re-
search and rural improvement schemes; these include la Caisse de Stabilisation
et de Soutien des Prix des Produits Agricoles (CSSPPA), Centre National de
Promotion des Entreprises Cooperative6 (CENAPEC), Institut de Recherches
Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres (IRAT), and Fonds Regionaux
pou;r l'Amenagement Rural (FRAR).
D. The Transport System
2.09      The transport system consists of approximately 45,200 km of roads,
640 km of railway, major seaports at Abidjan and San Pedro, 400 km of navigable
lagoons, two airports of international standard and 25 airfields for domestic



service. The country's infrastructure has developed along major north-south
axes which link the port of Abidjan with the land-locked countries of Mali
and Upper Volta. The system is focussed on Abidjan, but San Pedro in the
south-west is developing into another pole of attraction.
Roads
2.10      At independence the Ivory Coast inherited an important highway
network, which it has significantly expanded and upgraded. Recently the
Government began placing increased emphasis on improved road maintenance,
and since 1973, about one-third of yearly road investment has gone to main-
tenance.  Beside maintenance, the Government stresses the need for a fully
developed road network to sustain a balanced regional growth. This is des-
cribed in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.11      The railway system is part of the Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-
Niger (RAN), owned jointly by the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta. It consists
of a 1,159 km single track line from Abidjan to Ouagadougou (Upper Volta) of
which 640 km is in the Ivory Coast. Road transport competition and the need
for heavy capital investments necessitate RAN's continued financial dependence
on Government subsidies. The convention governing the railway requires that
the Ivorian Government contribute 60% of the costs for maintenance and re-
newal of track, special works and communication, and 100% of the costs for
new lines, both limited to works in the Ivory Coast. Freight traffic grew at
an annual rate of 8.4% between 1969 and 1975. The Bank has proposed selecLive
tariff increases, improved staffing policies and new capital injections in
areas promising an increase in the productivity of the system to boost the
railroad's financial viability. The recently approved Bank Loan and IDA
Credit will provide US$23.0 million to RAN and US$5.2 million to the Govern-
ment of Upper Volta which, together with Canadian financing of US$29.2 million
equivalent, will meet the foreign currency costs and some local costs of the
project. RAN's traffic is expected to increase by one-third between 1976 and
1980; the proposed railway project has been designed to meet the increased
capacity requirements at lower operating costs.   The technical assistance
under the proposed railroad project should help improve the efficiency and
quality of RAN's operations and management.
Ports
2.12      The two main ports are at Abidjan in the southeast and San Pedro
in the southwest. Most cargo, including traffic to and from Mali, Upper
Volta and Niger, passes throzigh Abidjan, where freight traffic amounted to
about 6 million tons in 1975. A long-term development plan needs to be pre-
pared before the port becomes congested; already port improvements costing
US$36 million are proposed for the 1976-1980 period. The port of San Pedro
was developed for timber traffic as part of the general plan to serve the
western regions; so far, traffic has not developed as anticipated due to a
reduction in timber exports between 1973 and 1975. The port has still to
be adequately developed and integrated into the country's transport network
to utilize efficiently its potential for handling general cargo.



-5-
Air Transport
2.13      Air transport in the Ivory Coast operates from two airports of
international standard at Abidjan and Yamoussoukro. Abidjan is served by
major international airlines. In addition there are 25 airfields capable
of handling feeder line aircraft. The air passenger traffic is expected
to grow at a yearly rate of about 14%, while air cargo is forecast to grow
at 11%. Air Ivoire has a monopoly over scheduled internal routes.
Rail/Road Coordination
2.14      There is no rational allocation of traffic movements between rail-
way and roads in the Ivory Coast. Over long distances trucks should feed
shipments into the railway, but due to heavy competition many truckers offer
the same services at prices which undercut rail operations. In the trans-
port corridor extending northward from Abidjan, freight transport is sub-
sidized for both modes: directly for the railway, as the Government supports
60% of the cost of infrastructure maintenance; indirectly for roads, as the
user taxes paid by trucks, particularly heavy ones, are below corresponding
user costs which, according to 1973 study on road user taxes (and a 1976
update), shifts the road user tax burden to private passenger vehicles.
Whether the dual subsidization, combined with the Government's considerable
influence on rate setting for both modes, leads to significant distortions in
the allocation of transport is not known, first of all because the amount of
subsidization for operational costs is estimated at only 5-10% for both modes
(trucking subsidies in Upper Volta may be somewhat higher), and secondly
because factors othei than costs, such as flexibility and time savings, are
often more important in the choice between rail and road. However, a study of
the present situation is needed. This has been provided for in the proposed
project and the Government has agreed to undertake the study in accordance
with terms of reference discussed and agreed upon during negotiations (Annex 6).
E. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.15      The Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction and Urbanism
(MPWTCU) administers the transport system with the exception of maritime
transport; the structure of the Ministry is shown in the organization chart
and described in para 3.11. In addition to NPWTCU, there are several autono-
mous public bodies concerned with the transport; the most important are RAN
(para. 2.11), the National Freight Office (Centre National des Bureaux de
Fret, CNBF) (para. 3.09) and the autonomous port authorities of Abidjan and
San Pedro.
2.16      The current five-year economic, social and cultural development
plan covers the period 1976-80, but is modified each year by means of a
three-year revolving plan (the Lois Programmes des Investissements Publics)
in order to update investment needs and financial requirements according to
circumstances. The Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning prepares and
coordinates the plan and redefines general sectoral objectives, while MPWTCU
makes specific proposals to meet these objectives. A similar procedure is
adopted for the estimation of recurrent expenditures, such as road main-
tenance.



-6-
2.17      The planning of transport sector investments has not encountered
serious difficulties during the past, largely because the options were sim-
ple and limited in scope. However, there still exists an inadequate capac-
ity for sector planning, policy formulation and coordination of investments
within the MPWTCU. In particular, sector planning is still too dependent
on foreign expertise; infrastructure tends to be overdesigned, and there is
undue political interference at the planning process. In addition there is
a lack of policy concerning rail/road competition and pricing and a lack of
measures to improve productivity of the Abidjan port and to integrate port
development with that of the road and railroad subsectors. Future projects
should seek, as far as practically possible, to improve this situation.
2.18      A step forward toward resolving some of these issues is being made
under the Fifth Highway Project. The 1976 update of the 1969 UN Transport
Survey outlined investment ineeds and will serve as a basis for formulating
the future investment policy in the transport sector. The Government has
established form a Department of Planning and Programming within NPWTCU to
advise MPWTCU on investment planning and the rational allocation of resources
within and among the various modes and to study and advise the Government on
transport issues.
3. THE ROAD SECTOR
A. The Road Network
3.01      The road network totals about 45,200 km (Table 1) and for admin-
istrative purposes is divided into two categories: (a) classified, a-bout
34,000 km, which are grouped into primary roads (Class A:   5,850 km), sec-
ondary roads (Class B:   7,000 km) and tertiary roads (Class C:  21,150 km);
and (b) unclassified, about 11,000 km consisting mostly of tracks and low-
standard roads opened by lumber companies and state-owned agricultural
development corporations. This network is generally adequate in-extent, with
two exceptions: the opening of the Port of San Pedro will require expansion
of the trunk roads in the central and southwestern regions, and the diversifi-
cation and growth of the agricultural sector will necesitate development of
the secondary, tertiary and unclassified road network. Under the terminology
used in this report, feeder roads cover the tertiary and unclassified net-
work.
3.02      There are about 2,000 km of paved roads; roughly one-half of them
were built before 1960 and are under-designed for present traffic loads.
Even the best routine maintenance cannot preserve roads which are structurally
inadequate for the traffic loads they must carry, and many of these roads
have deteriorated to the extent that major rehabilitation is required. Most
of the unpaved primary and secondary roads are reasonably well maintained, but



-7-
there still is a need for strengthening maintenance operations especially
for secondary roads and reducing the considerable backlog of betterment
works and periodic maintenance. The feeder roads are primarily dry weather
facilities, mostly with earth surfacing, and many become impassable during
part of the rainy season. Due to low construction standards, higher than
estimated traffic growth and inadequate maintenance, a large portion of the
feeder road network is in unsatisfactory condition and could act as a break on
rural development if urgently needed improvements and maintenance are not
begun.
3.03      The Government, in a major effort to improve the road network,
is concentrating its attention on (a) pavement strengthening of the most
deteriorated road sections, (b) construction of new trunk roads, (c) im-
provement of highway maintenance and (d) construction and improvement of
feeder roads. Notable progress has been made on the primary and secondary
road network aided by previous Bank projects; improvement and maintenance of
feeder roads has lagged, but is given high priority in the current five-year
plan.
3.04      The Bank has played an active role in the development of the pri-
mary and secondary networks under previous and ongoing highway projects,
with considerably less emphasis on improvement of feeder roads. The feeder
roads element of the proposed project will focus on the latter. Other con-
tributions to the country's road development have been made by several foreign
agencies, in particular, the European Development Fund (EDF) and the African
Development Bank (ADB), as well as bilateral assistance from various govern-
ments.
B. Road Traffic
3.05      The vehicle fleet was estimated at 88,320 units in 1976, of which
about 73% were passenger cars and pick-ups and about 27% buses, trucks and
other heavy vehicles (Table 2). These figures were taken from the 1976
Transport Survey carried out by the Consultants Societe d'Etudes Techniques
et Economiques (SETEC). The study raises considerable doubt concerning
the accuracy of the Government's statistics, which seem to grossly over-
estimate the vehicle fleet. Government data for 1975 show 117,990 units,
compared with the study estimate for 1976 of 88,320. It is difficult to
obtain the number and composition of vehicles as their removal from the fleet
is not recorded. The Department of Planning and Programming, created under
the the Fifth Highway Project, will propose improvements in Government
statistics on vehicles.
3.06      Roads carry approximately 75% of freight and 80% of passenger
traffic including that originating in or destined for neighboring countries.
Between 1969 and 1975, the annual increase in ton/km of total road freight
was 4.2%. Excluding timber transport, which was affected by shorter hauls
after the opening of San Pedro Port and by a decline in timber exports, the
annual rate of increase was 12%. Passenger traffic grew over the same period
at an annual rate of just over 10%. The annual rate of increase in ton/km of
agricultural produce between 1968 and 1975 is estimated at about 12%.



-8-
C.   Road Transport Industry
3.07      The road transport industry is regulated by the Central Directorate
of Land Transport (CDLT) of MPWTCU. For private passenger transport and
"lown use" freight transport, its role is limited to licensing and vehicle
inspection. "For hire" passenger and freight transport is regulated in terms
of entry and tariffs for loads over three tons, for hauls exceeding 100 km,
and for all public passenger transport. Other cegulatory institutions are:
Societe Ivoirenne de Controle Technique Automobile in charge of vehicle
inspection; Syndicat National des Transporteuars de Marchandises et Voyageurs,
allocating routes among the public passenger carriers; and Centre National des
Bureaux de Frets (CNBF) whose main task is to direct the operations of the
freight offices and to maintain statistics on supply and demand.
3.08      Transport of logs, oil productr and important agricultural produc-
tion is hiandled by a small number of large carriers. Though domirated by
foreign interests in the past, the Government encourages greater Ivorian
participation in these concerns, which are now 70% controlled by Ivorians.
The rest of the freight traffic and most of the rural passenger traffic is
carried by many small owner-operators, mostly Ivorian, with only one or a
few vehicles. Bankruptcies have been common among these owner-operators and
small firms; this is attributable to the following: (a.) their inability to
obtain the larger, more profitable freight contracts; (b) over-capacity in
the industry resulting in fierce competition and price-cutting; and (c) a
lack of commerical training anid managerial skills.
3.09      The Government established freight offices (CNBF) as a service
to truckers to match supply with demand and issue operating licenses. How-
ever, strong competition among truckers made contracting outside the freight
offices more advantageous for producers. It is expected that by the end of
1979 the over-capacity in the industry will be eliminated and with it the
main cause of price-cutting which creates instability in the industry. Thtis
will be accomplished through Government's policy of holding the number of
licenses issued for trucks constant for that period. Under relatively stable
market conditions, the freight offices will then be able to provide reasonable
services, and it is expected that adequate tariffs will be respected through-
out the country.
3.10      The Government is interested in a study of the training needs of
the industry. The Bank is now exploring with the Conseil de l'Entente the
possibility of funding this study which would outline a training program to
improve the managerial skills of Ivorian truckers. The Barnk may consider
financing part of this training program under the technical assistance com-
ponent of the next highway or education project in the Ivory Coast.
D. Administration
3.11      Under the recent reorganization, MPWTCU carries out its functions
through central direccorates and seven Regional Directorates of Public Works,
Construction and Urbanism (RDPWCU). The regional directorates are located



-9-
in Abengourou, Abidjan, Bouake, Daloa, Korhogo, Man and San Pedro. Planning,
programming and coordination are the tasks of the Department of Planning and
Programming within the Central Directorate of Public Works, while the physical
execution of road maintenance is done by the regional directorates. The
equipment fleet is managed by the Central Directorate of Equipment. All
laboratory work for soil .nvestigations is done by the Construction and Public
Works Laboratory, a financially independent entity under the technical control
of MPWTCU.
3.12      MPWTCU is seriously short of engineers and technicians and must
rely heavily on foreign technical assistance. Many head office functions
are carried out by expatriates provided principally by French technical
assistance (FAC) in upper level engineer and advisory positions, including
25 experts for the highway sector. An increasing number of Ivorians are
opting for training as professional engineers. But as yet only a small stream
of qualified and experienced engineers is emerging and many of these are being
attracted by the higher salaries in the private sector. The Government's
objective of transferring responsibilities to Ivorians is making slow progress,
and the Government will continue to depend on foreign technical assistance in
the near future.
3.13      The Bank is helping the Government to improve staffing and adminis-
tration through technical assistance under its highway projects. Under the
Third Highway Project, the Directorate for Periodic Maintenance of Primary and
Secondary Roads (DERP) was created and the Directorate for Road Maintenance
(DER) established within DCPW to plan, coordinate and monitor road improvement
and maintenance operations.  Under Government's previous administrative
structure, maintenance work was entirely the responsibility of the regional
district engineers who reported directly to the Director of DCPW without any
coordinating body for maintenance operations on a national level. The es-
tablishment of DERP and DER will eliminate this shortcoming. In addition,
maintenance operations have been reorganized and Ivorian staff trained
in modern maintenance techniques. The Fifth Highway Project provides for:
(a) overseas fellowships for DCPW and DCMTP engineers, (b) a study recom-
mending increases in the capacity of local training institutions for civil
engineers, technicians and foremen and which is being implemented with the
Government's own financing; and (c) technical assistance for a department of
planning and programmming within MPWTCU. The proposed project will continue
and expand technical assistance for highway maintenance started under the
Third Highway Project by training Ivorian personnel and strengthening MPWT
administrative structure for maintenance of unpaved primary and seZondary
roads, and feeder roads.
E, Financing
3.14      Government's highway expenditures, exclusive of foreign financing,
increased from about CFAF 3 billion (US$12 million equivalent) in 1971 to
about CI'AF 22 billion (US$90 million equivalent) in 1976 (Table 3). In 1976,
about one-third of these expendi,ures was for road maintenance, the remainder
for construction and administration. Maintenance expenditures are met by
allocations from the road fund (70%), the general budget (13%), and other



- 10 -
sources (17%). New construction is financed from the investment budget, con-
tractor financing, and by loans/credit mainly from the Bank Group, EDF, ADB
and bilateral financing.
3.15      The road user taxes consist of fuel taxes (62%), vehicle entry
taxes (18%), and taxes on tires, spare parts, insurance and fees for regis-
tration and licencing. In 1975, revenues from road user taxes amounted to
CFAF 26.1 billion (US$106 million) (Table 4), nearly equalling road expendi-
tures (including foreign financing) of about CFAF 26.5 billion (US$108 mil-
lion). Government's contribution for new investment for 1976-78 is estimated
at CFAF 24 million (US$98 million) annually.- The Government will most likely
be able to provide the necessary local funds to support its investment and
maintenance goals given its present economic performance.
3.16      Road user taxes are unevenly levied, with heavy vehicles paying
relatively less tax in comparison with other vehicles. In 1976, consultants
updated the 1973 road user tax study financed under a previous Bank project
and recommended increasing taxes on heavy vehicles. The Government is re-
luctant to make major changes in the present system, because of the strong
opposition by the truckers' union in view of the sector's already weak
financial position. The studies' recommendations are being reviewed by the
Government and the Bank and will be followed up by the Bank under present and
future lending operations in order to improve the situation.
F. Engineering and Construction
3.17      The Sub-Directorate of Programming and Investment (SDPI) is respon-
sible for economic studies and engineering of road construction works. SDPI
itself carries out only minor studies; major studies are done mostly by
foreign consultants and to a lesser extent by the National Planning Bureau
(BNEDT). The Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux Publics (LBTP) carries
out materials testing for all MPWTCU studies and construction supervision. A
few local engineering firms have been established during the last years but so
far have done only minor studies and supervision of construction workse Joint
ventures of foreign and local consultants will be employed to carry out about
300 km of preinvestment studies under the Fifth Highway Project in order to
promote local firms and increase their participation in future works.
3.18      Contracts for highway projects financed by international or bilat-
eral assistance are let on the basis of competitive bidding following guide-
lines of the agencies involved. Large civil works are carried out primarily
by foreign companies. About 20 major civil works contractors (employing about
10,000 persons) are active in the country; their annual turnover is about CFAF
20 billion (US$81 million). Most of the contractors are local subsidiaries
of European-based firms. Only two are Ivorian companies: SONITRA, which is
jointly owned by the Government and an Israeli company, and SONAGECI a fully
state-owned, autonomous enterprise created in 1974. These two companies
have already carried out major road projects including two roads financed
under the First and Fourth Highway Projects, and their performance has been
adequate, despite some organizational problems during the initial construc-
tion period. About 40 domestic contractors work primarily in the building



sector and participate only to a minor extent in civil works due to insuffi-
cient equipment, lack of experience and insufficient management capability.
Many of these companies could progressively undertake larger civil works if
given Government's support for their increased participation in such work,
as well as financial and technical assistance.
3.19      In order to assist small-scale domestic industries, the Ministry
of Economy, Finance and Planning has launched a study of small and medium
sized domestic industries to evaluate their present work capacity and their
technical and managerial competence and to make recommendations on how to
improve the competitiveness of the industry.' The study should be ready 'by
early 1978 and the Bank and Government will discuss its recommendations with a
view to possible assistance in future Bank projects. To promote this sector
in the shorter run, a large number of smaller structures and drainage works
under the project would be constructed by small domestic contractors. In
addition it is envisaged that about 25% of the road sections included in
the feeder road program are to be improved by contractors. These works
would be subject to international competitive, bidding open to qualified
local and foreign contractors. The MPWTCU believes the work could be done
at a lower cost to the Government if done on force account. Nevertheless,
MPWTCU has agreed that bidding should take place. If the lowest bids received
were unreasonably high, the Government would consult with the Bank on further
action.
G. Maintenance
3.20      A maintenance study, carried out under the 1969 UNDP financed
Transport Survey, recommended improving highway maintenance for primary and
secondary roads by reorganizing MPWTCU's administrative structure, introducing
modern programming and budgeting techniques, strengthening MPWTCU's force
account brigades, increasing budgetary appropriation and training Ivorian
personnel. These recommendations are being implemented under the four-year
maintenance program financed under the Third Highway Project with technical
assistance by consultants.
3.21      The assistance provided by consultants under this four-year main-
tenance program has more than met the objectives of improving DCPW's planning,
budgeting and executing road maintenance operations. Feeder road mainte-
nance, however, remains deficient. Reorganization of MIPWTCU's administrative
structure has been completed and has resulted in efficient operations. DCPW
through its newly created DER is responsible for planning, budgeting and
monitoring annual maintenance operations. At present the Government's admin-
istrative structure does not yet provide for a central unit for planning, bud-
geting and execution of the feeder road network. The Feeder Road Section
to be created within DER under the project will overcome this deficiency.
Physical execution of works is carried out by seven regional districts (sub-
divided into 24 subdivisions and 180 road sectors) and by DERP, mainly by
force account through mechanized brigades and the substantial use of labor.
However, maintenance work so far has been carried out mainly on primary and
secondary roads and, except for those maintained by agricultural (or regional)



- 12 -
development organizations (para 3.25), many of the feeder roads have not been
maintained at all and are, therefore, in need of improvement. Periodic main-
tenance of paved roads, primarily resurfacing, is done by contractors. Main-
tenance and repair of MPWTCU's equipment fleet is the responsibility of DCMTP,
a semi-autonomous agency, operating a central workshop in Abidjan and four
small, inadequate regional workshops (Bouake, Daloa, Korhogo and Abengourou).
DCMTP leases its equipment to the subdivisions at rates which cover costs for
repair, equipment renewal and overheads.
3.22      As a result of training under the four-year maintenance program,
the increase in force account brigades, and the improvement in skills of
Ivorian personnel, recurrent maintenance of the most trafficked primary and
secondary roads has improved, and periodic maintenance of these roads has
got off to a good start. However, there exists a need for (i) strengthening
equipment maintenance and repair through further training of mechanics and
construction of regional workshops, (ii) strengthening recurrent maintenance
operations and eliminating the backlog for betterment and periodic mainte-
nance of the primary and secondary road network, and (iii) improving and
maintaining feeder roads.
3.23      There is generally no lack of equipment for road maintenance.
The deficiencies lie in the shortage of trained and experienced staff at
professional and sub-professional levels, and in adequately equipped workshops.
The shortage of mechanical engineering staff is particularly chronic. The
growth of the road maintenance program has created a demand for mechanics and
supervisors. This demand will be increased still further by the need to
service and repair the equipment to be procured for the feeder road program
and for the betterment of primary and secondary roads under the proposed
project. The facilities of DCMTP's training center [Centre d'Applications de
Travaux Publics (CATP)] have improved and a steady stream of trained mechanics
is now emerging. But very few have the experience and confidence to take
on work of greater responsibility as workshop foremen, inspectors and storemen.
In a shortage situation the Government finds difficulty in competing with the
wages offered by private industry which is also expanding. The supply of
mechanical engineering staff is likely to remain critical in the early stages
of the proposed project; it will be the subject of special review during
supervision missions to consider with the Government whether special measures
are needed beyond those provided by the technical assistance component of
the proposed project.
3.24      DCMTP operations are further hampered by the inadequacy of its
regional repair facilities. The Bank provided funds for construction of four
regional workshops (Bouake, Daloa, Korhogo, Abengourou) under the Third
Highway Project, but only three are being constructed, primarily with Govern-
ment financing, because of considerably higher construction costs than
provided for under the project. The higher costs are due primarily to a
justifiable increase in construction standards and inflation since project
appraisal. The proposed project will provide for construction of three
additional workshop facilities, procurement of workshop equipment and tools,
and technical assistance for training of mechanics.



- 13
3.25      DERP is responsible for improvement and periodic maintenance of
the country's 6,130 km of primary and most trafficked secondary roads
(average daily traffic over 50 vehicles); #he regional subdivisions are in
charge of the remainder of the network. DERP is headed by an Ivorian engi-
neer assisted by consultants. It satisfactorily operates three betterment
units, created with Bank financing under the Third Highway Project in 1974
and 1975. DERP aanually carries out a total of about 450 km of improvement
and regravelling works which are then maintained by the subdivisions. DERP,
however, is underequipped and needs two additional betterment units and more
supervisory personnel (see Table 15). The proposed project will assist the
Government in this respect by procurement of additional maintenance equip-
ment.
3.26      Maintenance of feeder roads has until now been limited primarily
to reshaping only the most. trafficked feeder roads of the classified network
(21,150 km), with most of the unclassified roads (11,000 km) not being main-
tained at all. Maintenance works are carried out by the regional subdivisions
and by existing agricultural or regional development organizations, partly
under agricultural development projects. Improvement works are lagging due
to lack of equipment and trained staff. The 1976 BCEOM study outlined the
need for improvement and maintenance of an additional 6,800 km of priority
roads over a five-year period having an economic rate of return of over 12%.
The Bank has already made a start in assisting Government to improve the
feeder road network through improvement of about 1,200 km of feeder roads
under two rural development projects (Loan 1069-IVC, Second Cocoa Project,
and Loan 1077-IVC Cotton Areas Rural Development Project). The proposed
project will constitute a major step toward meeting the Government's objec-
tives regarding the maintenance and improvement of the feeder road network.
3.27      Road maintenance funds increased steadily from CFAF 2.1 billion
(US$8.7 million equivalent) in 1971 to CFAF 7.2 billion (US$29.4 million
equivalent) in 1976 (Table 3). This amounted to about 4% of Government's
total 1976 budget or to US$650 per km for the total network which is rather
high compared with other West African countries. The Government is consid-
ering a further increase (to a total of US$40-50 million annually in 1981)
in order to keep pace with inflation, increase maintenance standards for
primary and secondary roads, and to improve and maintain most of the feeder
road network.
3.28      To optimize the allocation of funds for future road maintenance,
the Department of Planning and Programming with the assistance of consultants
provided under the proposed project would determine by June 30, 1978 a long-
term strategy on:
(i) optimum standards for maintenance of the various
road categories; and
(ii) financial requirements to adequately maintain the
total road newtwork.
This matter has been discussed with and agreed upon by the Government.



- 14 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The main objectives of the project are:   (a) to provide better
transport services to the rural population through improvement and mainte-
nance of feeder roads; (b) to strengthen betterment and maintenance opera-
tions of primary and secondary roads started under the Third Highway Project;
and (c) to train Ivorian staff to efficiently carry out the tasks under (a)
and (b).
4.02      The proposed project consists of:
(i) a 3-1/2 year program for the improvement and subsequent
maintenance of about 3,600 km of feeder roads;
(ii)  a 3-1/2 year program for betterment of about 900 km of
unpaved primary and secondary roads;
(iii) construction of three regional workshops;
(iv) purchase of equipment for: (1) six force'account brigades
for the feeder road program, (2) two force account brigades
for the betterment program, and (3) three regional work-
shops; and
(v) technical assistance for: (1) training local staff in
planning, implementing and monitoring the feeder road
improvement and maintenance program; (2) training DCMTP's
personnel in equipment maintenance and repair and assist-
ing in the installation and organization of regional
workshops, and (3) a study on modal traffic distribution.
B.  Feeder Road Program
4.03      The proposed project provides for the improvement and subsequent
maintenance of approximately 3,600 km of feeder roads over a 3-1/2 year
period, commencing in April 1978. The improvements consist of: (a) clear-
ing heavy vegetation; (b) reshaping the roadway; (c) gravelling selected
sections (estimated at 35% of the total length); and (d) reinforcing and
building drains and drainage structures. Road design standards have been
chosen on the basis of expected traffic over the ten-year period following
execution of works. The minimum road design standard is a 4.5 m wide surface;
for higher traffic volumes the width has been increased to 6.0 m, and for a
very limited number of road sections to 8 m. The two wider road cross-
sectiolLs will only be adopted when justified on economic criteria; Chapter
5 and Annex 5 describe the methodology used. Table 5 gives details of the
design standards. The maintenance works would include reshaping the road
surface, filling potholes, minor repair and clearing of ditches and drainage
structures. In addition to maintaining the roads improved under the project,
the Government would maintain with its own financial resources a minimum



- 15 -
of an additional 2,000 km of feeder roads in 1978 to be increased to a total
of 5,000 km by 1982. The Government has confirmed these arrangements.
The proposed project will provide funds for equipment procurement and their
operating expenditures for a 3-1/2 year period (1978-81). A detailed list of
equipment to be procured is given in Table 6.
C. Betterment Program for Primary and Secondary Roads
4.04      The project provides for betterment works for about 900 km of pri-
mary and secondary roads by two mechanized brigades over a 3-1/2 year period
(1978-81). The works consist of improving drainage through construction
of culverts and small bridges, execution of minor earthwork, and spreading
a 15-20 cm gravel layer; only in exceptional cases will it include realign-
ment and widening of the roadway. The proposed program will complement
1,600 km of ongoing betterment works executed by the three existing force
account brigades created under the Third Highway Project, altogether pro-
viding for adequate betterment of the most important elements of the pri-
mary and secondary road network (Table 13). The proposed project will pro-
vide funds for equipment procurement for two additional force account brigades
and their operating expenditures for 3-1/2 years (1978-81). A detailed
list of equipment to be procured is given in Table 7.
D. Regional Workshops
4.05      Three regional workshops will be established under the project (San
Pedro, Man and Boundoukou) for maintenance and repair of the heavy equipment,
and for repair of vehicles now serviced by small, inefficient local repair
shops in the subdivisions. The project will also provide for procurement of
equipment and tools for these workshops. These three workshops together with
the three Government-financed facilities and the Central Workshop in Abidjan
will provide adequate repair facilities in each of the country's seven regions.
E.  Technical Assistance
4.06      Technical assistance would be provided under the project to (a)
assist the Government in creating and developing the necessary capability
for planning and executing feeder road improvement and maintenance works,
and (b) continue and expand the training of road maintenance personnel begun
under the Third Highway Project. It is anticipated that when consultant ser-
vices end in mid-1979, MPWTCU will have skilled pe.csonnel to carry out the
feeder road improvement and maintenance works, equipment maintenance and
repair and trained mechanical staff for the latter without the need for fur-
ther technical assistance by consultants. The project will also provide for
a study to analyze necessary changes in the subsidy and taxation system for
freight transport to improve the modal distribution of traffic between rail
and road.
Feeder Road Program
4.07      Ten experts would be provided to assist and train Government per-
sonnel in planning, executing and monitoring feeder road improvement and



- 16 -
maintenance works. Three experts would be attached to the Feeder Road Section
in DER; they would deal with overall planning and management. Three experts
would be attached to the six force account construction brigades to assist in
the physical implementation of the improvement works. Four experts would be
attached to the DCMTP to advise on equipment maintenance and repair.
4.08      On the basis of the Feeder Road Study, technical assistance total-
ling 228 man months of consultants services will be required. The technical
assistance would provide on-the-job training for MPWTCU engineers, techni-
cians, mechanics and one economist. The experts' outline job descriptions and
required qualifications as well as duration of assignment is given in Annex 3;
these have been agreed upon by the Government.
Equipment Maintenance and Repair
4.09      Eleven experts would be provided for a period of up to two years
(Table 8) to: (i) train DCMTP's staff, in particular chief of workshops,
mechanics, mechanical inspectors, and operators, to maintain, repair and
operate equipment, and procurement/inventory personnel to procure and store
spare parts; (ii) assist in installation of the regional workshops and train
Ivorian staff in their operations; and (iii) improve qualifications of local
training instructors. Of the eleven experts, one (project coordinator) will
be attached to DCPW and be responsible for performance of consultant teams and
will advise the Government on road maintenance. Nine experts will be assigned
to DCMTP: one equipment inspector will assist in coordinating the work of the
central and regional workshops; one mechanic with expertise in diesel engine
repairs and four master mechanics will assist in coordinating the work of the
central and regional workshops and help to establish the six regional work-
shops to be constructed; one accounting/inventory expert will improve pro-
cedures for procurement and storage of spare parts at the central workshop
in Abidjan and the regional workshop; and two training experts will organize
and carry out training courses for mechanics, equipment operators, chief of
workshop at CATP and train local instructors. The project will also provide
for one expert (highway engineer) assigned to DERP to assist in establishing
the annual work program and budget requirements, supervision and monitoring
of betterment work executed by DERP's force account brigades.
4.10      About 246 man-months of consultants' services will be required.
The training will consist of on-the-job training by consultants and courses
at CATP. It will provide basic training as well as refresher courses for
about 300 mechanics and equipment operators, consisting of both theoretical
and practical instruction on the type of equipment used in MPWTCU's mainten-
ance operations. The training program will emphasize improving the qualifica-
tions of Ivorian instructors, who will carry out training activities after
termination of the consultants' assignments.
Modal Traffic Distribution
4.11      About 20 man-months of consulting services will be provided to
carry out a study to determine to what extent uneconomic distortions of the
modal allocation of traffic do exist, if they are caused to a significant
degree by Government subsidies and what changes in the subsidy and taxation



- 17 -
system would be needed to improve the modal distribution of tt-affic. The
Department of Planning and Programming, set up in MPWTCU under the Fifth
Highway Project, will supervise the execution of this study in coordination
with a similar unit in the Voltaic Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Urbanism. The study, to be completed by March 31, 1979, would be carried out
under the terms of reference given in Annex 6. Upon completion, the study's
recommendations will be reviewed with the Bank. The Government has agreed to
these arrangements.
F. Cost Estimates
4.12      Total project costs are estimated at US$63.2 million, including
US$9.6 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Project costs net of taxes
and duties are estimated at US$53.6 million equivalent with foreign costs
of US$29.0 million (54%). The proposed loan of US$29.0 million would cover
the foreign expenditures of the project; Government would finance the local
costs of US$24.6 million plus taxes. A summary of costs is given below
(details of financing of project costs and expenditures over the project
period are given in Tables 9 and 10):



- 18 -
Project Costs /1
------CFAF million -------------------US$'000----------- Foreign
Exchange
Local   Tax    Foreign  Total Local    Tax    Foreign  Total  Component
A. Feeder Roads
(a) Equipment       174    220   1,050     1,444    710    897   4,285   5,892       73
(b) Spare Parts      63    120     462      645     257    490   1,886   2,633       72
(c) Fuel and
Lubricants      103    205     180       488    420    837     735    1,992      38
(d) Materials       264    138     303      705   1,078    563   1,237   2,878       43
(e) Civil Works
Contracted      344    430     944     1,718  1,404  1,755   3,853   7,012       55
(f) Local
Salaries      1,600     -       -     1,600   6,531    -       -     6,531        0
Subtotal A    2,548  1,113   2,939     6,600 10,400  4,542  11,996  26,938       45
B. Betterment of
Primary and
Secondary Roads
(a) Equipment       153    191     929     1,273     623     779    3,792    5,194     73
(b) Spare Parts      58    108     428      594      237     441    1,747    2,425     72
(c) Fuel and
Lubricants       83   .174     158       415     338     710      645     1,693    38
(d) Materials        67     36      77      180      274     147      314       735    43
(e) Local
Salaries      1,100     -       -     1,100    4,487     -               4-487      0
Subtotal B    1,461    509   1,592    3,562    5,959   2,077    6,498   14,534     45
C. Workshops
(a) Buildings        95     86     149      330      388     351      608    1,347    45
(b) Equipment
and Tools        27     34     164      225      110     139      669,     918     73
Subtotal C      122    120     313      555      498     490    1,277    2,265    56



- 19 -
Project Costs /1 (Cont'd)
-----CFAF million---------       ------------US$'000---------     Foreign
Exchange
Local   Tax    Foreign  Total    Local    Tax   Foreign    Total  Coronent
D. Technical
Assistance
(a) Feeder Roads
Program         112            335       447     457             1,367    1,824     75
(b) Training of
Highway
Maintenance
Personnel       106             320      426     433             1,306    1,739     75
(c) Study on modal
traffic
distribution     14             42        56      57               171      228     75
Subtotal D      232            697       929     947             2,844    3,792     75
Subtotal A,B,
C,D           4,363  1,742   5,541    11,646  17,800   7,109    22,615   47,529     47
E. Contingencies
(a) Physical
(10% for A,
& C)            267    123     325       715   1,090      503    1,327    2,918   45
(b) Price
Escalation    1,411    480.  1,225     3,126   5,760   2,000     5,000   12,760   39
Subtotal E    1,678    613   1,550     3,841   6,850   2,502     6,327   15,677   40
Grand Total       6,041  2_,355   791     15,487  24,650_    9,612  28,942   632026    46
(Rounded)                                        (24,600) (9,000) (29,000) (63,200)
/1   Based on January 1977 prices.
Source: Mission estimate, May 1977.



- 20 -
4.13       Cost estimates of equipment and tools are based on suppliers'
recent quotations. Operating costs of equipment are based on 180 working days
a year and actual cost figures observed under the Third Highway Project. The
average financial costs as of January 1977, net of tax, of improving roads
are: for 4.5 m wide feeder roads, CFAF 1.2 million (US$4,900) per km; for 6.0
m wide feeder roads, CFAF 1.6 million (US$6,500) per km; and for betterment
works on primary and secondary roads CFAF 3 million (US$12,200) per km. These
costs, which are reasonable, include equipment depreciatIon but exclude tech-
nical assistance. Cost estimates for workshop buildings and workshop tools
are based on bids received from local contractors and suppliers in 1976 for
existing facilities.
4.14      Costs for about 494 man-months of consultants' services for contin-
uation of the highway maintenance program, implementation of the feeder road
program and the study on modal traffic distribution were estimated on the
basis of consultants BCEOM/Louis Berger's present contract, and following a
review of current costs for consulting services in Western Africa. The
billing rate, net of tax, is an average of US$5,500 per field man month
including salaries, overhead (home office expenses, expatriate allowance,
social security, and other indirect expenses), and fees. Reimbursable ex-
penses payable to consultants are an average US$2,000 per field man-month
including housing, internal and external travel, telecommunications, report
preparation, etc.
4.15      A physical contingency of 10% on the feeder road program, workshops
and civil works done by contractors has been included to allow for increases
in quantities. No allowance for physical contingencies has been made on the
large technical assistance component and for betterment work, as this item
can be estimated with accuracy from experience under the Third Highway Proj-
ect. Price contingencies for both local and foreign costs amount to about
26% of the total base cost and have been calculated taking into account the
following annual escalation rates: (i) for the construction items, 9% for
1977-78 and 8% thereafter, and (ii) for the other items, 7.5% in 1977-78 and
7% thereafter.
G. Execution
4.16      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MPWTCU.
A new Directorate of Road Maintenance (DER) has been established within the
Central Directorate of Public Works,.and a Feeder Roads Section will be
established within DER to plan and monitor the feeder road program and fol-
low-up projects. These arrangements, including terms of reference for the
new offices have been confirmed with Government; the creation of the Feeder
Roads Section will be a condition of disbursement of the feeder road component
of the proposed project. The implementation schedule and local staff require-
ments for the proposed project are given in Tables 11 and 15.



- 21 -
Feeder Road Program
4.17      The feeder road improvements will be executed by (a) force account
units of six mechanized brigades (equipment shown on Table 6), the first
three of which are scheduled to start work in April 1978 and the last three,
one year later; and (b) two mechanized brigades prov-ded by contractors (for
about 25% of the total improvements) which are scheduled to start work in
early 1978.  In order to assure availability of adequately trained staff,
procurement of equipment for the three feeder road units to be created in 1979
will be contingent on satisfactory implementation of the training program
(para. 4.23, Table 14). The improvement works would take 3-1/2 to 4 years.
On the sections where work is carried out by force account brigades, small
local contractors would be used to build drainage structures. The roads
improved under the project would subsequently be maintained by the Government
maintenance teams. These arrangements have been confirmed by the Government.
4.18      The road improvements and maintenance operations would be carried
out by mechanized brigades, which was determined to be the most appropriate
technology. There is no significant excess labor in the Ivory Coast and
it is the Government's policy not to divert already scarce labor from agri-
culture. The economic benefits of using less mechanized and more labor
intensive methods have been examined, applying the Bank's research experi-
ence to Ivorian conditions. The following operations have been examined:
land clearing, excavation, loading, transport and spreading of materials.
For these operations, the financial cost of using more labor-intensive methods
was about double that of a mechanized brigade. The economic evaluation did
not use shadow pricing of labor. For sensitivity test purposes alone a shadow
rate of 150% for foreign exchange (see Annex 5) was used, and it was found
that the economic cost of using labor-intensive methods remained higher than
for the technology proposed in the project, i.e., the use of mechanized
brigades.
4.19      A work program has been established for the first year of implemen-
tation both for the force account brigades and for the roads to be improved
by contractors (Table 12). The second and subsequent years' programs will
be prepared by the Feeder Roads Section. These programs will be based on sub-
programs worked out for the country's seven regions in collaboration with the
agencies and other entities concerned. Once the national working program for
each year has been defined, it should be forwarded to the Bank for approval
three months before the scheduled start of the work- under that year's
program.  These arrangements have been agreed upon y the Government.
4.20      Institution building is of primary importance in the project,
and a capability would be created within the new Feeder Road Section of DER
to:
(a) monitor the economic, engineering and social aspects
of the project including a regular program of sample
traffic counts;



- 22 -
(b) develop the second and later years' programs of feeder
road improvement and maintenance;
(c) prepare physical and financial plans for the second
and later years' programs; and
(d) prepare proposals for a continuation of the program
after completion of the proposed project.
These would be undertaken t the Ivorian staff in the new Feeder Road Section
under the guidance of the Chief of Technical Assistance in the new Feeder
Roads Section and a transport/development economist. Close coordination wiil
be maintained with other interested ministries.
4.21      In the economic analysis, the roads selected for the first year's
program have been justified on transport cost savings only. In selecting
the second and later years' programs, other factors may also be considered.
For the purposes of economic justification, roads should be grouped into
two categories (para 5.04). A minimum economic rate of return of 10% would
be applied in evaluating and selecting the second-and later years' programs.
These evaluation and selection criteria have been agreed upon by the Govern-
ment.
Betterment Program
4.22      The betterment works will be carried out by force account by DERP,
which will prepare necessary engineering of the works prior to execution.
This method of execution which offers the flexibility needed for the small
works inivolved has been selected as the most economic and efficient on the
basis of costs and of past experience with the three existing brigades in
operation since 1974/75. The first betterment unit to be created under the
project will start operations in April 1978, the second unit one year later.
Each unit is expected to complete about 150 km of betterment works each year,
at an average cost of CFAF 3 million (US$12,200) per km, amounting to a
total of 900 km for the period 1978-1981.
4.23      A work schedule will be established on a yearly basis and perfor-
mance checked accordingly. DERP will carry out adequate accounting in the
field to control the cost and the efficiency of the units. The Government
has tentatively selected a list of roads to be included in the program en
the basis of present traffic volumes and road conditions which together with
the works executed by the three existing brigades cover the most important
unpaved primary and secondary roads in the country (Table 13). The program
may be modified somewhat during project execution in the light of actual
road conditions and economic development at the time of implementation. The
work program for each year will be forwarded to the Bank for approval three
months before the scheduled start of the works under that year's program.
After 1981, these two units will continue road betterment and periodic main-
tenance works in line with the Government's priorities.



- 23 -
4.24      The timing for equipment procurement both for the feeder roads and
betterment brigades to be created under the project in 1979 will be reviewed
by the Government and the Bank in June 1978 and will be contingent on satis-
factory progress of DCMTP's training of mechanical staff and equipment oper-
ators (Table 14). The Government will also assign the necessary supervisory
staff for DERP (1 assistant director, 1 technician, 2 brigade chiefs, 2 bri-
gade foremen), in accordance with agreement reached during appraisal (Table
15). The Government has agreed to these arrangements.
Regional Workshops
4.25      DCMTP will be responsible for the regional workshops.   The central
workshop in Abidjan will continue to carry out specialized repair of heavy
equipment and will be used as the regional workshop of the Abidjan region.
The three workshops to be constructed under the project in San Pedro, Man and
Bondoukou are expected to be completed and fully operational by March 31,
1979, to coincide with the start of operations of the three feeder road and
one betterment force account brigades created under the proposed project in
that year; the three workshops currently being constructed by the Govern-
ment in Bouake, Daloa and Korhogo will be operational by April 30, 1978. An
implementation schedule for construction of both Bank and Government financed
workshops and procurement of workshop tools and equipment (Table 11) has been
agreed upon with the Government.
Technical Assistance
4.26      The Government has indicated that it may invite consultants BCEOM/
Berger to submit a proposal for providing technical assistance in implement-
ing the feeder road component and for training of mechanical personnel for
equipment maintenance and repair under the proposed project. This is accept-
able since these consultants carried out the Feeder Road Study under the
Third Highway Project and satisfactorily carried out their assignment for
implementing the 4-year maintenance program under the Third Highway Project,
and therefore possess the detailed knowledge to facilitate implementation of
the proposed project. A detailed list of technical assistance personnel for
the feeder road component is given in Annex 3; technical assistance staff to
DCMTP and DERP is given on Table 8. In order to allow for continuation of
consultant services the Government will finance their services to DCMTP from
termination of their contract in May 1977 until signature of the loan agreement.
A detailed time schedule for training of the mechanical staff, nomination of
local counterparts and trainees, and recruitment of additional local personnel
is given in Tables 14 and 15. The Ivorian staff should be made available
before the arrival of the consultants who will train them. The Government has
confirmed that it will attach qualified local staff to DER, the feeder roads
and betterment brigades, DCMTP, and the regional directorates.



- 24 -
H. Procurement
4.27      Equipment, materials and supplies (fuel, lubricants), civil works
for construction of workshops, and feeder road improvement works to be done
by contractor, amounting to about US$21 million, net of taxes, will be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for equipment, materials, and supplies
costing less than US$50,000 can be awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding following local procedures acceptable to the Bank; the total amount of
such purchases will not exceed US$1.5 million. Bidding documents were
prepared by DCPW and reviewed with the Bank at negotiations. Contracts for
smaller civil works such as construction of culverts, smaller bridges and
improvements to road surface over short sections can be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding following local procedures. The total cost of civil
works procured under local procedures would not exceed US$1.2 million.
Consultants for technical assistance will be retained in agreement with and
under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Goods
manufactured in the Ivory Coast would be allowed a preference equivalent to
15% of the c.i.f, price of imported goods or the prevailing duties applied to
non-exempt imports, whichever is the lower. The above arrangements have been
discussed and agreed upon by the Government at negotiations.
I. Financing and Disbursements
4.28      The proposed loan of US$29.0 million will finance about 54% of total
project costs, net of taxes, i.e. 100% of the foreign exchange costs of the
project. All local costs (US$24.6 million) plus about US$9.6 million in taxes
would be provided by the Government, including local-currency recurrent costs
of the road maintenance program.   This has been confirmed by the Government.
Tne foreign exchange portion of operating costs of the force account brigades
(about US$3.6 million) would be financed under the proposed loan. Table 9
gives details of the financing of the project. Loan funds will be disbursed
as follows:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures of imported
equipment, spare parts, vehicles, workshop equip-
ment and tools, and 73% of the costs of these items
if purchased locally;
(b)  41% of total expenditures on fuel, lubricants and
materials;
(c)  55% of total expenditures on improvement works on
feeder roads carried out by contractors;
(d)  45% of total expenditures on workshop construction
by contractors; and
(e)  75% of total expenditures on consultants or other
foreign experts.



- 25 -
Requests for disbursements against items (a), (c), (d), and (e) would be
fully documented. Disbursements for item (b) would be against a certificate
of expenditures; detailed documentation would be retained by the Borrower and
available for inspection by the Bank. The estimated disbursements from the
loan account are shown in Table 18.
5. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EVALUATION
5.01      The Ivory Coast is a predominantly agricultural country.   About 75%
of its population depends directly or indirectly on diversified agricultural
and forestry industries which account for about 80% of the country's exports
and about 30% of its GDP. Although other sectors of the economy are growing,
the Ivory Coast will continue to depend on the exploitation of its agricul-
tural and forestry resources. The primary means for transporting agricul-
tural products and timber is by road, and while generally adequate in ex-
tent, the country's road network, especialy its feeder and unpaved primary
and secondary roads, require improvement and maintenance. The proposed
project addresses this need.
A.   Objectives
5.02      The main objective of the feeder road element of the proposed
project is to provide better transport services for the rural population
through the improvement and maintenance of roads in areas where an exist-
ing or a potential transport demand has been identified. The primary and
secondary road betterment component provides Lor extension of the betterment
program initiated by Ivory Coast with Bank support under the Third Highway
Project in 1973. These improvement and maintenance works together with the
technical assistance components have high priority among numerous high-yield
investments available in the highway sector and will provide for the improve-
ment of the economically most important earth and gravel roads in the country.
The proposed feeder road program will ensure transport of agricultural and
forestry products at reduced costs. Institution building is an important
elemRnt of the project.
B.   Economic Justiiication
5.03      Reductions in transport costs for the feeder roads program were
calculated as savings in vehicle operating costs which represent the differ-
ence between operating costs on existing and improved roads (mainly to a width
of 4.5 m or 6.0 m).  The project woula also include some short sections of
secondary standard roads, 8 m wide, linking feeder roads to main roads where
traffic by 1987 is estimated to reach 150-300 vpd; at the most these would
total about 300 km. While a 4.5 m width is considered the minimum standard
for improvement, this has been increased to 6.0 m in the proposed first
year's program in cases where the marginal investment yielded a rate of return
of at least 12%. Since a large part of the road investment is in drainage
structures and the marginal investment from 4.5 m to 6.0 m width is relatively



- 26 -
small, it is often more efficient from an organizational point of view to
build the roads to 6 m width standards at the outset of the program rather
than proceed through stage construction. The question of choice of standard
and possible stage construction would receive continuous attention during
implementation of the proposed project. The first year's program includes
715 km of roads improvement with a rate of return greater than 12% (Table 12),
but the acceptable ERR in subsequent years' programs will be 10%.
5.04      Roads to be included in the second and later years' programs will
be grouped in two categories: (I) existing roads serving areas with estab-
lished agricultural activities; benefits are, in such cases, calculated as
road user savings; and (II) new roads or existing roads (tracks) with little
traffic, which may form part of an agricultural or rural development project.
For group II roads there are two benefit components, either or both of which
may apply: (a) value added on existing and incremental output resulting from
the road construction or from a combined road/agricultural investment; (b)
road user savings for traffic not directly related to agricultural production
and thus supplemental to value added. While the majority of project roads
come under category I, it is intended that category II roads may be identified
and included in the second and subsequent years' programs.
5.05      Reduction in transport costs has been the criterion in the selec-
tion of roads to be improved in the first-year program, but other socio-
economic indices have also been developed. These indices could be further
studied during the monitoring of the project and could (possibly in modi-
fied form) be used to assist in ranking roads which proved justified using
quantifiable economic benefits. (Annex 5 gives a detailed presentation
of the economic and social evaluation methodology.)
5.06      The quantification of benefits for the 900 km road betterment pro-
gram is based on vehicle operating cost savings. The roads selected for the
betterment program have an average daily traffic of between 60 and 170 vehi-
cles per day. Cost savings associated with bringing a poor earth road up to
good gravel road standards are conservatively estimated for the traffic on
each segment included in the program from the time it is opened to traffic
over the next eight years, the average time frequency for the betterment
brigade intervention (see Table 16). The two brigades are supposed to start
working April 1978 and April 1979 respectively.
C.   Traffic Estimates
5.07      For the feeder roads, twenty-three traffic surveys were carried
out on representative roads. These surveys were supplemented by estimates of
regional agricultural and timber production allocated by road section in
proportion to population within the area of influence of the road. Traffic
composition is also estimated as a function of the regional economic activi-
ties. The traffic data base will be improved progressively during project
implementation (Annex 4, para. 4). Traffic in 1977 is estimated to range from
a few vehicles per day (vpd) to 150 vpd; in 1987, traffic is expected to reach
150-300 vpd on a few of the roads, but most of them will be in the range of 30



- 27 -
to 100 vpd. Traffic volumes are dependent on population growth and increases
in agricultural production. The Government's objectives in the current
five-year development plan include a real rate of economic growth of 7%. The
agricultural sector will have to play a major part in achieving this rate of
growth, and the plan includes significant investment proposals to support
this. The main areas of development will be (a) industrial crops such as
oil palm, coconuts and rubber, through expanding existing operations such as
SODEPALM, (b) regional agricultural development projects in the poorer areas
in the south-west, west and north, (c) small-holder production of food crops
to meet the needs of the growing urban centers such as Abidjan, Bouake and San
Pedro, and (d) small-holder production of high-value coffee and cocoa in the
south and west. Previous experience with agriculture in the Ivory Coast has,
on the whole, been satisfactory. The sector has demonstrated considerable
growth, not only in the large-scale operations, but also in the small-holder
sector where spontaneous response to opportunities is evident in the acceptance
of new crops (e.g. cotton), development of new areas and the formation of
working cooperatives. Thus it is expected that agriculture in the areas where
feeder road improvement is planned will develop sufficiently to justify the
predicted levels of traffic employed in the evaluation.
5.08      Traffic estimates for roads included in the betterment program
are based on traffic counts undertaken by consultants (SETEC) in 1976.
Vehicle mix and their respective rates of growth follow patterns observed
over the 1969-1975 period. Two variants for the vehicle type mix were
adopted to represent the traffic flow mix: ii the south the traffic is
dominated by private passenger vehicles (50%) as opposed to the north where
light trucks and buses make up to 54% of the traffic flow (Table 17). All
roads selected for the betterment program show an average daily traffic of
at least 60 vehicles (Table 13).
5.09      The betterment work will serve regions of the country included
in the general plan for balanced regional development: the north, south
of Divo, east of Abidjan and north of Bondoukou. Traffic on these roads
is expected to grow at about 10% p.a., varying from 7.3% for light trucks
and buses, 14.9% for passenger cars and taxis, and 10.4% for trucks of 6.5
to 10 tons. In spite of the higher rates of growth in private passenger
traffic, the relative vehicle kilometrage recorded for this vehicle type
accounted for only 23%, while public service passenger traffic amounted
to 37% and goods traffic to 39% of total vehicle kilometrage.
D.   Vehicle Operating Costs
5.10      Annex 5, Table 1 gives the vehicle operating costs on feeder
roads by vehicles and by road type. For existing road conditions, vehi-
cle operating costs have been calculated separately for poor (gravelling
required) and fair surface condition (reshaping required only); in both
cases, separate costs for wet and dry seasons have been identified.
5.11      The mission estimated that, by improving selected secondary roads
to good gravel standards, vehicle operating costs will drop 23% in the case of



- 28
trailer-trucks, 25% for car/taxi/pick-up, 30% for light trucks/ small buses,
and 35% for trucks with an average of 5.5 ton capacity relative to the operat-
ing costs on improved dirt roads of lower design standards. Although operat-
ing costs were not specifically calculated for the roads included in the
betterment program, the values used for quantification of benefits reflect the
lower bounds of country-wide vehicle operating cost saving estimates associ-
ated with similar levels of road improvement throughout the year (Table 17).
E.   Construction and Maintenance Costs
5.12      In the economic evaluation, net-of-tax costs have been used for
construction. Shadow pricing has not been used, since unemployment among
rural labor is low and foreign exchange is not severely scarce. Conser-
vatively, it is assumed that the costs of maintenance, with or without the
project, do not change. The costs of maintaining project roads are in the
Government's maintenance budget.  The current annual maintenance costs,
excluding costs for regravelling, average CFAF 22,000 (US$100) per km for 4.5
m roads, CFAF 37,000 (US$150) for 6.0 m roads, and CFAF 60,000 (US$275) for
8.0 m roads.
F.   Overall Evaluation of the Feeder Road and Road Betterment Programs
5.13      In preparation of the Feeder Road Program, about 1,160 individual
roads with a total length of about 20,000 km were studied. Some 4,304 km of
roads were identified to yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least
12%, with an average of 24%. In the first year program, 716 km (Table 12)
were selected out of these roads and yielded an average ERR of 24%. An addi-
tional 1,250 km of road improvements yielded an average ERR between 8% and
12%. The overall ERR for the 5,554 km was estimated at 19%. Further details
on the evaluation are provided in Annex 5. As work progresses, road improve-
ment priorities will be kept under review including the remaining 14,000 km
of feeder roads which now yield an ERR less than 8%.
5.14      Sensitivity tests carried out for the proposed first-year Program
showed that an increase of 20% in investment costs reduces ERR to 19%; a
reduction of benefits by 20% reduces the ERR to 18%, while a simultaneous
increase in costs and reduction of benefits by 20% results in a drop in ERR
to 13X.  The main area of risk is associated with the traffic estimates
deriving from forecasts of agricultural production. The values used in the
analysis correspond generally to the planned agricultural target figures but
with downward revision for certain products. The monitoring and planning
procedures to be instituted (Annex 4) will ensure that changes in data will be
taken into account in formulation of the second and third year programs. In
particular, efforts will be devoted to improving traffic data and refining
traffic forecasts.
5.15      Quantification of benefits for the betterment program is made
over the life of the project for each road section in the two brigades'
work schedule. Annual benefits are calculated as operating cost savings
for each type of vehicle over the entire length of the road. Net benefits



- 29 -
accrue over an eight-year period starting with the first year the upgraded
road is open to traffic (Table 16). Given equipment and operating costs, net
of taxes, the economic rate of return for the betterment work is estimated at
36%. A sensitivity analysis performed on the data indicated that if costs
increase by 15% and benefits simultaneously decrease by 20% the economic rate
of return will drop to 13%. A reduction in benefits could be caused by a
significant drop in traffic flows on the roads selected. This is highly
improbable, considering the historic traffic trends and the level of economic
activity planned for the south-east and northern regions of the country.
5.16      A further element of risk in the project lies in the availability
of trained staff, particularly mechanics and associated supervisory staff
(para. 3.23). This risk cannot be quantified. The recognition that it exists
provides some warrant that the Government assisted by the Bank will do all
that is possible to make sure that the effects on the project are minimal.
5.17      The combined ERR of the feeder road and betterment programs is
estimated at 29%.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal parts:
(a) Government will carry out a study under terms of reference
agreed upon with the Bank (Annex 6) to be completed by
March 31, 1979 to establish and formulate proposals to deal
with the impact of the subsidy and taxation system on
freight transport and the distribution of traffic between
rail and road; the results of this study will be reviewed
in consultation with the Bank (para. 2.14).
(b) the Department of Planning and Programming, with the assis-
tance of consultants employed under the technical assistance,
will establish by June 30, 1978 a long-term strategy
on optimum maintenance standards for the various road
categories and financial requirement to adequately main-
tain the total road network (para. 3.28);
(c) the Government will take all administrative, technical
and financial steps necessary to maintain to an agreed
and acceptable standard (i) the project roads after
the improvements have been made, and (ii) 2,000 km
of feeder roads in 1978 to be increased annually to
5,000 km by 1982 of feeder roads not included in the
project (para. 4.03);
(d) execution of the feeder road component will follow the
implementation schedule and arrangements for monitoring
the project (paras. 4.17 to 4.20);



30 -
(e) the Government will submit to the Bank for approval
the annual feeder road and betterment programs no
later than three months before the beginning of each
working year (paras. 4.19 and 4.23);
(f) procurement of equipment for the three feeder road and
one betterment unit to be created in 1979 will be con-
tingent upon satisfactory progress of the training pro-
gram for mechanics and equipment operators (para. 4.24);
(g) the Government will assign an adequate number of counter-
parts and trainees to work with the consultants 'n advance
of the arrival of experts in accordance with tim, schedule,
qualification of staff and training programs (pazas. 4.24
and 4.26); and
(h) construction of workshops and procurement of tools and
equipment will follow the implementation schedule as
outlined in Table 11 (para. 4.25).
6.02      A condition for disbursement under the feeder roads program will be
that the Gove.rnment establishes a Feeder Road Section within DER (para. 4.16).
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for a loan to the Government of the
Ivory Coast in the amount of US$29.0 million. The Loan term would be 17 years
with a 4-year grace period.



TabI- 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Development of the Rural Road Network, 1971-76
Non Clas-   Total Road
Classified Roads                        sified      Network
Year          Paved Roads             Earth & Gravel    Total
Roads                     ..._..
A        B       C       A        B       C
km       km      km,      km      km      km     km        km          km
1971          1260          5         11374       21827   34466      n.a.        n.a.
1973     1269      81     59       4734    6793   20469   33495     .n.a.        n.a.
1975     1555     199    200       4312    6802   20956   34024    11190        45214
A: National (Primary) Roads.
B: Regional (Secondary) Roads.
C: Local (Tertiary) Roads.
Source: MPWTCU, January 1977.
March, 1977



Table 2
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet, 1976
1/
1.        A recent detailed study of the vehicle fleet in the Ivory Coast
indicated that the figures for previous yearz were grossly over-estimated.
Therefore the earlier figures have little statistical value. The following
figures are for 1976 only. The study recommends the introduction of a more
reliable system of data collection and the maintenance of vehicle fleet
records.
Estimated Vehicle Fleet, 1976
Passenger cars and taxis                     58,260
Pickups                                       6,500
Bush Taxis ( < 20 passengers)                 4,140
Buses                                         4,380
Trucks:
6 2 tons               2,300
2  to 4.5 tons         3.130
4.5 to 7 tons          2,460
7 to 9 tons            1,480
> 9 tons               2,150
Subtotal                   11,520
Trailer and semi-trailer combinations         3,520
Total                      88,320
1/   Update of the UNDP Transport Survey, SETEC-International December, 1976.
Source: Consultants SETEC, December 1976
March, 1977.



Table 3
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND, HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Sector Expenditure and Financing 1971-1976
(in millions CFAF)
Expenditure                            1971       1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
1.  Road Ma4ntenance                   2050       2050      2610      5150      6600      7150
2.  Road Investment                    3720       5360      5860      8490     19930     27860
3.  Administration                      664        819      n.a.       976      n.a.      n.a.
Total                             5770        7410      8470     13640     26530     35010
Financing
1.  Road Maintenance
-  General Budget                  500         530       540       760       960       960
- Road Fund                       1550        1520      2070      2880'     4330     4930
- World Bank                         -           -         -       650       750       870
-  Others                            -           -         -       510       560       390
Total                          2050        2050      2610      4800      6600      7150
2.  R-ad Irvestment
-  National Investment Budget     1200        1700      1580      2230      5130      7360
-  External non-specific Loans     680         250        70       230       180        20
-  External specific Loans        1600        258()     2860     170       5670     9150
- World Bank                       220         81C       900      2500      3440     2840
-  EDF & FAC                        20          20       360       370       270       230
-  CSSPPA                            -           -        90      1490      5240     82-60
Total                          3720        5360      5860      8490     19930    27860
Grand Total                    5770        7410      8470     13290     26530     35010
3.  Total Government's contribution    3250       3750      4280-     8336     15660-    ?1510-
1/ Exclusive of Administrative Expenditures
Source: M4inistry of Planning, Marph, 1977
March, 1977.



Table 4
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Revenues from Road User Taxes
(CFAF million)
1972        1974        1975
Variable Taxes
Fuel                                          10199       12540       16108
Lubricants                                     .175         232          296
Tires                                          1085        1539        1281
Spare Parts etc.                               1369        1560        1658
12828       15871       19343
Fixed Taxes
Vehicle Import Duty                            3818        4337        4597
Insurance                                       265         382         440
Registration                                    459         587         606
Fiscal Stamps                                   110         131         142
Licences and Tax of Transport Industry          731         916        1008
5383        6353        6793
Total                            18211       22224       26136
Source: Road User Tax Study
SETEC August, 1974 and updated December, 1976
March, 1977.



Table 5
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Feeder Road Design Standards
1.        Existing feeder roads to be improved under the proposed project are all
passable to vehicle traffic during the dry season,as are the majority during
the rainy season, though at much higher vehicle operating costs.   The road
formation widths vary from 3 m to 8 m.   Under the proposed project, roads would
be given a well-defined cross-section, improved (all-weather) surface and adequate
drainage.
2.        The road width would be determined on economic criteria taking
account of traffic volume (vehicles per day and seasonal variations) ard
composition. The following standards will be adopted:
Design Standard
1/
Designation     2,                  1                2                3
Vehicles per day-                425              .25-75           >75
Clearing (m)                        8.5             12              16
Formation width (m)                 5.5              7.53/          10.0
Gravel surface width (m)            4.5-L/           6.0-:-          8.0
Thickness of gravel (cm)           10-15           10-20            15-20
Drainage                            lateral ditches, culverts and fords;
bridges only where the size of river or the
volume of traffic warrants it.
Design Speed (km/h)                 n.a.            n.a.            80
1/  Roads with a maximum running surface width of 4.5 or 6.0 meters may be enlarged
to a running surface width of 6.0 or 8.0 meters, as the case may be,'provided
such increase in width has a demonstrated marginal economic rate of retii:rn not
less than 10%.
2/  The figures referring to opening year are indicative only representing average
conditions.
3/  Only to be regravelled where required.
Source: BCEOM and Mission
March, 1977.



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJ-ECT
Equipment to be Purchased for Improvement of Feeder Roads (CFAF millions)
(1)   .         Unit Costs                Total Costs
Equipment                  Per Brigade Reserve Total    Local  Tax  Foreign  Total  Local  Tax   Foreign Total
No.        No..  No.
Bulldozer 180-200 hp                          2           2     14      3.7   5.0    24.3     33.0   52.0  71.0  339.0    462.0
Motor Grader 125 hp                           2           2     14      2.0   2.8     13.2    18.0   29.2  38.8  184.0    252.0
Loader 100 hp                                 1           2      8      1.9   2.2    10.9     15.0   14.5  17.9   87.9    120.0
Agricultural Tractor 65 hp                     1          -      6      0.4   0.6     2.5      3.5    2.4   3.4   15.2     21.0
Pneumatic tired towed roller 10/12            1          -       6      0.3   0.4     1.8     2.5     1.8   2.3   10.9     15.0
3
Dump Trucks 6 m3                              4           3     27      1.1   1.3     6.4      8.8   29.7  35.1  172.8    237.6
Lubrification Truck                          1/2          -      3      1.1   1.3     6.4      8.8    3.3   3.9   19.2     26.4
Service Truck 3.5T                            2           -     12      0.4   0.6     2.7     3.7     4.8   7.2   32.4     44.4
Fuel Truck 6.000 1                            1           -      6      0.6   1.0     4.4      6.0    3.6   6.0   26.4     36.0
Water Truck 10.000 1                          1          -       6      1.1   1.3     6.4      8.8    6.6   7.8   38.4      52.8
3
Water Pump 50 m /1                            1           -      6      0.1   0.1     0.4      0.I    0.6   0.6    2.4       3.6
Light Car                                     2           -     12      0.3   0.4     1.8     2.5     3.6   4.8   21.6     30.0
Total                                                                                152.1 198.8   949.9   1,300.8
(Rounded)                                                        .152) (1%,)                     (950)    (1300)
(1) For six brigades including reserve.   Procurement would be in two lots: Th.e first ye.ar for three brigades
plus one loader in reserve the second year for the remaining brigades and reserve.                                          H
Note: CostB are as of January, 1977
Source: Mission and BCEOM estimate                                                                                              W
March, 1977



TVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
l/
Equipment to be Purchased for Betterment Program
(CFAF Million)
Berigd   1eere           Tt           oclUnit Costs                                   1Total Costs                          _______
Ner         Reserve        Total      Local          Tax        Foreign      Total        Local         Tax      Foreign      Total
Equipment                    No.          No .        No .|I
Bulldozer (320 h p)                        2           -            4          5.b4          7.05        34.31        47.0         22.56       28.20       137.24         ]8P.O
Bulldozer (180-200 h p)                    2           2            6          3.96          4.95        24.09        33.0         23.76        29.70      14,-.54        198.0
Motor Grader (125 h p)                     3            2           8          2.16          2.70         13.14       18.0         17.28        21.60      105.12         144.0
Motorscraper (25 m3)                       1            -           1          2.90          3.63        17.67        24.2          5.81         7.26       35.33          48.4
Loader (100 h p)                           2            2           6          1.80          2.25         10.95       15.0         10.80        13.50       65.70          90.0
Roller (Self Propelled) (10 t)             2            -           4          2.64          3.30        16.06        22.0         10.56        13.20       64.24          88.0
Pneumatic tired towed roller               1            -           2           .36           .45          2.19        3.0           .72          .90        4.38           6.0
(10-12 t)
Agricultural Tractor (65 h p)              1            -           2           .36           .45          2.19        3.0           .72          .90        4.38           6.0
Dump Trucks 6m3                            8           6           22          1.06          1.32         6.42         8.8         23.23        29.04      141.33         11G.6
Service Trucks 3.5 t.                      3           -            6           .44           .56         2.70         3.7          2.66         3.33       16.21          22.2
Water Truck (10.000 1)                     2            2            6         1.05          1.32          6.42         8.8         6.34         7.92        38.54          52.8
Fuel Truck (6000 1)                        1           -            2           .72           .90         4.38         6.0          1.44         1.80         b.76         12.0
Lubrification Truck                        I           -            2           .98          1.23         5.99         8.2          1.97         2.46       11.97          16.4
Repair-Truck                               1           -            2          1.73          2.16        10.51        14.4          3.46         4.32       21.02          28.8
Laboratory Truck                           1           -            2          1.20          1.50          7.30i      lo_^          2.40         3.00        14.60         20.0
Camper                                     8           -           16           .66           .83         4.01         5.5         10.56        13.20       64.24          88.0
Light Cars                                 4           -            8           .26           .33          1.61        2.2          2.11         2.64        12.85          17.6
Water Tank                                 3            -           6            36           .45          2.19        3.0          2.16         2.70        13.14          18.0
Fuel Tank                                  3            -           6           .46           .60            88        4.0          2.90         3.60        17.50          24.0
Electro-unit                               1            -           2           .42           -53          2.55         3.5          .84         1.05         5.11           7.0
Motor Pump                                 3            -           6           .08           .10           .49          .67         .48          .60         2.92           4.0
152.76      192.92       42q.12        1272.8
1/  Cost as of January, 1977.
Source: Mission and BCEOM estimate
March, 1977



Table 8
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance to DCMTP & DERP
Technical Assistance                Man-
Month      1977     1978     1979
Team Leader                                     24
Highway Engineer                                 6
Equipment Inspector                             24                         -
Mechanical Specialist
(Diesel Engines)                             24            -             -
Master Mechanic    1                            24           -             -
it2                                   24            -  ____
It          3                            24          -
if4                                   24               _ _ _ _
Accounting/Inventory Expert                     24          -
Training Expert    1                            24            -            -
2                            24         -               -
Total                          246
Source: Mission
March, 1977.



Table 9
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIG,HWAY MIAITTEIIAICE PROJECT
Financing of Project Costs
(CFAF Million)
Government Financin.
Local    Ta.     Foreign    Total     Bank Financing    Total     Bank Financing
A. IFeeder Roads
Equipment                               174     220       -         394         1050           1444            73
Spare  'arts                             63     120       -         183          462            645            72
Fuel and Lubricants                     103     205       -         308          180            488            38
Materials                               264     138        -        402           303           705            43
Civil Works Contracted                  344     430        -        774          944            718            55
Local Salaries                         1600      -        -        1600           -            1600             0
TOTAL A:       2548    1113        -       3661         2939           6600            45
B. ,ecterment of Primary and
Secondary Roads
Equipment                               153     191       -         344          929           1273            73
Spare Parts                              58     108       -         166          428            594            72
Fuel and.Lubricants                      83     174       -         257          158            415            38
Materials                                67      36        -        103            77           180            43
Local Salaries                         1100      -         -       1100           -            1100             0
TOTAL B:       1461     509       -        1970         1592           3562
C. Workshops
Buildings                                95      86       -         181          149            330            45
Equipment and Tools                      27      34       -          61          164            225            73
TOTAL C:        122     120       -         242          313            555            56
D. Teciniical Assistance
Feeder Roads Program                    112      -        -         112          335            447            75
Training of Highway
M4aintenance Personnel                106      -         -        106          320            426            75
Study on Modal Traffic Distribution      14      -        -          14           42             56
TOTAL D:        232      -         -        232          694            929            75
Subtotal A, B, C, & D:           4363     1742       -        6105         5541          11646           47
E. Contingencies
Physical (10% for-A & C)                267     123       -         390          325            715           45
Price Escalation                       1411     490       -        1901         1225           3126           39
TOTAL E:       1678     613       -        2291         1550           3841           40
GRAND TOTAL          6041    2355        -       8396         7091          15487            46
(US$ '000):        24650     9612               34268        28942          63212     .     46
(Rounded):          24600    9600               34300        29000          63200
Source: Mission Estimates



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIlGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
?i~ject Cost!1
Summary (CFAF Million)
1977                        1978                         1979                      1980                          MI8                        19482                         TotalI
0                                                                                  0
0          a0                                                00                   0                           0
El ,4          ,      E-     -        ~            4     - E4,                ,-     -4.,                 -
I.   CAPITAL cosTs
A. Feede-   Road,
(q) Equipm-t                                         76    101    477    654     95    119    576     79017                                                                                              20       5     44
(b) Spare parts                                       5      9     36     50      15     27    107    149    20     37    143    200     20      37   143    200       3     10     33     4f    2320           1050   1444
(c) Fuel & Lubricants                                 8     16     14     38     23     48      42    113    32     63     56    151      32     63     56   151       8     15     12     3'   103      205     180    488
Cd) Local salaries        1                   1     138     -      -     138    375     -       -     375 ~f5              -     48     45      -      -     45     16      -       -     11( 1600        -       -    1600
(e) Materials                                        20     11     23     54     61     33      70    164    82     44     92    218     82     44     92    218      18      9     24     51   264      138     303    705
Cf) Civil works
contracted                                    62     67    152    281     95    120    264    479     95    120    264    479     95    120    264    479      -      -      -      -    344      430     944   1718
Total A               1                   1     309    204    702   1215    664    347   1059   2070   714    264    555   1533    714     264    555  1533     145     34     6':   248 2548      1113    2939    6600
B. Betterment of Primary
& Secondary Roads
(a) Equipment                                         77    96    465    637      76     95    465    636                                                                                       153      191      929  1273
Cb) Spare parts                                       5       9    35     48      15     28   1II     154    19     36    141    196      19     35    141    196                                58      108     428    594
(c) Fuel & lubricants                                 6     14     12      33     22     45     41    108    27     58     52    137     27      58     52    137                                83      174      158   415
(d) Material.                                         5       3      6     14     18      9     21     48    22     12     25     59      22     12     25     59                                67       36       77    180
(e) Local salaries                                   88     -      -       88    286     -      -     286   3,63    -      -     363    363      -      -     363                              1100       -        -   1100
Total B                                         181    122    519    820    417    177    638   1232    4,31   106    218    755    431    105    218    755                              1461       509    1592   3562
C. Workshops
(a) Buildings                                        95     86    149    330                                                                                                                     95       86      149    330
(b) Equipm-ent & Tools                               27     34    164    225                                                                                                                     27        34     164    225
Total C                                         122    120    313    555                                                                                                                    122      120     313    555
D. Technical Assistance
(a) Feeder Roads
Program            6     -     18    24       32     -      96    128     43      -     130    173    31      -     92    123                                                            112       -       335    447
(b) Training of Main-
tenance Personnel.22        -     67    89        53     -     160    213     31            93    12410
Cc) Study Lon Modal                                                                                                                                                                                               1.     4i
Traffic Dlistri.                                 14     -      42     56     -      -                                                                                                        14       -        42     56
TOA                 f_      I3     ' --          -    -79- 797   7     -     2-7-3   --9-                9- -     3232                                                                   -       607   I,,29
Subtotal A to D          29     -     85   114      711    446   1832    2987   1155    524   1920   3599 1176      370   865   241    14      36     79     285     145    34       68    248433        1  2    541       6
E. Contingencies                                                                                                                     41   14        6      7     2,
(a)   Physical 10% t;. Item A.
and C                                         43     32    102    177     66    35     106     207    71      26    56    153     7 1    ?r,    56    152      1~              7    25   ?r47      i 1)3   325     715
(b) Price i-scalation     2    -      5      7      101     67    215    383    343   120     330    793   420     133   315     868    470    154    324    948      75-   16      36    12   141         9    12.      32
Total E               2           5     7      144     99    317    560     409  155      436   1003   491     159   371   102.1    44.   4.U    jzi   .un        ;    iv       4 ' i .L)L .u7b      613    1550    3841
Grand Total         =31    -     90   121      855    545   2149   3547   1564   679     2355   4598   1667    529 1236    3432    1686   549   115    3388     9*,52           1      Q   01       7~       f0      53
I/ Base costa as of January, 1977
Source: BCEOM and Mission
ma-y, 1977.



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJEGT
Schedule of Implementation
Activity                                             197,                    197T                  1970                     1980                   1981
INSTITUTION BUILDING
- Establish Feeder Roads Section ( in DER).                                                 x
- Budget Allocation                                                                     x            x                    x                       x                       x
PROCUREMENT OF BRIGADES
-  Prepare Bidding Documents
- Approval of Pocuments by Bank                                                    x
- Call for Bids                                                                     x
- Receive Bids                                                                        x
-  Select Suppliers                                                                     x
- Approve Contracts
- Deliver Equipment                                                                                 x                      x
REGIONAL WORKSHOPS
-  Prepare Terrain                                                                              x
-  Prepare Bidding Documents
- Approval of Bidding Documents by Bank                                                               x 1/
- Call for Bids
-  Select Contractors
- Award Contract                                                                /    3/
-  Begin Construction                                                                           x  2/   3/       1/
-  Complete Construction                                                                          x-/  '51      X1/
- Deliver Equipment                                                                                             x-           x -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FEEDER ROAD PROGRAM
- Prepare T.O.R. for Technical Assistance
- Invite Consultants to Submit Proposals                                           x
- Receive Consultants Proposals                                                       x
- Consultants Provide Services                                                                  -
-  Reporting on Project Monitoring                                                                                                          -
PROGRAM PREPARATION
- Prepare Yearly Feeder Road an,d Betterment Program
-  Present Program to IBRD
PROGRAM EXECUTION (FEEDER ROADS)
- Three Brigades on Force Account
-  Three Additional Brigades on Force Account                                                                               -                -_-
- Contractors Brigades
- Routine Maintenance
IBRD SUPERVISION
- Engineer
- Economist
1/ Workshops in San Pedro, Man and Boundoukou (financed under project)-
2/ Workshops in Bouake (financed by Government).
31  Workshops in Daloa and Korhogo (financed by Government).
Source: Mission
May, 1977.



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROADS AND HIGHWAY LMAINTENANCE PROJECT
Distd         Road Ler th          Investment.         T r a f f i c               Benefits   E   Al  Weiohted Soclo-Eco
Road no     4.5   6.0   8.0  Total CFAF mill.       1977               1987        (discoun-         r nomic Index
(1)                (2)                  Veh/km 'O0O %OHT Veh/km '000  [ ted at 12')       1fter. -eWights)
mill.CFAF           1    2    3
ABIDJAN
1007         -     37    -     37    50.9           947     39      1 226      a5    126.2     40     59   71   57
1001         14    22    -     .36   42.9           508     39        657     45     65.4      29     47   54   45
1004         16    22    -     38    44.7           473     39        612      45    58.6      24     41   45   41
1006         12    25    -     37    45.2           390     42       .500     47     56.3      22     36   41   35
Tr:tal     42   106    -    148   183.7         2 318              2 995           306.5
AGBP\VILLE
0114         -     -     21    21    63.0         1 033     12      2 369      11    105.2     25     64   72   54
DALOA
0109 (3)      2    10    -     12    12.3           156      13        382     13    21.6      28    65    74   66
0102          4     6    -     10    13.8           131      13       320      13     19.7    22     59    62   63
20q4          6    12          18    16.1           204      13        498     13    24.7     24      60'  67   59
0307 (3)      7    18,   -     25    24.6           340      13        830     13     46.6    30      56   68   54
0208          5     6    -     11    12.9            100     13        243     13.    17.2     20     54   58   55
0302         17    25    -     42     42.8           479    16       1 153     14     70.6     26    55    64   53
01U' (3)     22    20    10    52    67.1           6B7      13      1 675     13    92.1      20     60   70   58
0110 (3)      4     6    -     10     9.3             72     13        174     13     9.6      14     50   92   50
0111 (3)      5     5    -     10     8.9            78     13         191     13    10.1      16     49   51   49
Q3   (31      -    22     6    28    44.2           426     13       1 040     13    56.7      19     50   58   48
021i (3)      -    14    -     14     16.7           116     13        282     13     15.8     12     46   50   46
010 .         -    20    -     20    23.8           280      13       683      13    36.8      24     46   55   45
9lPI          -     9    -      9    10.7           130     13        316      13     17.0    25      42   53   41
CD
Total      72   173    16   261   303.2         3 199              7 ' 7           '138.5    22.5
o ti
010 (3)       -     5    -      5     5.9            100     26        149     28     10.9     35     60   67   60
010O          -     G    -      6     7.1            152    25         226     28     14.9     38     60   73   59
010 -              40    -      0    17 .G          726     26       1 078    28     97.7     37      59   72   57



DISTRICT          Road Length         Inv,a stmant       T r a f f i c               Benefits    E R R    c;ichted Boo-
Road n0      4.6   6.o  '8.0o   Total CFAF mill.      1977               197          dscoun-      0b -Economic Index
(1)                 (2)                   Veh/km '000 s-IT Veh/km '000 -/.HT terd at 12k)         Ualter.weights)
ntill.CFAF            1     2    3   _
04,02        -     14    -      1 4     16.7          255     25         379    28     25.88     28      59    66   58
0109 (3)     -      7    -       7       8.3           77     26         114    28      8.7       14     52    58   50
Total      -     72     -     72      85.6        1 310              1 946          156.0      34
DI,MBOKRO
0302         -      -     12    1.2     36.0          445     23        894     22     51.3      20     61     72   61
0702         -      6     13    19      50.5          471     23         947    23     72.6      21      51    62   49
Tatal      -      6     25    31      86.5          916              1 841          123.9      20.5
GA-NOA
0401         6     14     15    35      66.2          903      15      2 134    14    132        31      67    77   66
0306 (3)     -      11   -      11      13.6          137      15        324    14     19.2      23      57    62   57
02i3 (3)     -      6    -       6       7.4           90      15        212    14     12.5      28      59    72   62
04035       13     21    -      34      36.9          a49      15      1 060    14     58.8      26      58    66   58
0302         4      17    -     21      2'9.7         2?0      15        639    14     35.8      23      52    59   50
0202         -     12    -      12      12.3          126     15         299    14     15.9      20    .54     61   55
03-1         -     18    -      18      18.5          177      15        ellA   14     22.9       19     49    55   49
0206 (3)     -      9    -       9       9.2           83     15         1 i    14     10.6      18      45    49   45
037          -      4    -       4       5.6           34      15         79    14      5.1      12      46    42   47
020-         -       5    -      5       5.1           44      15        103    14      4.6       12     46    47   47
0204         -     23    -      23      23.6          190      15        448    14     24.3       15     42    47   41
0304         -      5    -       5       5.1           29     26          64    19      5.4       16     32    37   32
Total     23     145    15   183     228.2     ;     532            5 976           347        25
Grand Total137    502     77   716     950         11 308             20 784        1 479.2      26
, s H
0 I'.3
Source: Consultant and Mission                                                                                '-ih
Ij Number refers to map
g/ Survev and design required for a 8 meter wide rdad
j-  Not yet inventoried : inventory to be carried out before improvement definitively
included in program



Table 13
IVOIY COAST
FEEP  R3D AND_HIGHWIAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Roads Tentatively Selected for Betterment Progrnm!'
Estimated
1977
Traffi                   1976         1977        1978         1979        1980        1981        1982
i      (v,pd)
A. Firat Betterment Unit (existing)
Bouake-Beoumi                                     62          280
Be-umi-S.kasaou                                   42           60
Beoumi-Botro                                      40           50
Bou.ke-S.l-                                       64        80 & 40
Sa.1a--S.rebou                                    89           40
Xatiola-s                                         90          120
Botro-Bouandougou                                 52          180
Bouandougou-Segucla                              128           50
Seguela-Boundiali                                198           50
Baundiali-Mali                                    D8           80
B. Second Betterment Unit (existing)
Oume-Divo                                         74          230
Iasia-Gngnon                                      87          250
Gago.a-Saoaandra                                 129          100
Sasaandra-Lakota                                 111          100
Nakpalike-Laouda                                  33           60
Oume-Sufra                                        65          100
Sufra-Gounte                                      88          150
Sapia-Zuenoula                                    92           60
Zuenoula-B.uake                                   68          170
Dalna-ljai                                       49          390
Dimbolero-Bougouanou                              63          140
Asa.hara.-MB.tto                                  35           65
C. Third Betterment lnit (existing)
Kouibi-Hnn-Nskoly                               109           50
Agboville.-N'Douci                                67           150
Youhouli-Grd Lahou                                82          240
Guitri-Lakota                                     76           80
Gueyo-.oubre                                      69           60
S.a-andra-Carrefour SP-Iaaia                      53          260
San-Pedro-Tabou                                  117       35t!&110
Tabou-Guiglo                                     288           50
D. Fourth Betterment Unit (Crested under Project)
Odienne-Rorhogo                                  238       120675
korhogo.U.lie                                    115           140
Mali-Ferkessedougou                               137           80
Badikah.-Korhogo                                  63           90
Korhogo-Niakara                                  147           140
E. Fifth Betterment Unit (Creqated under Project)
Grd-Lahou-Guitri                                  58            60
Guitri-Divo                                       43           140
Bingerville-Grd BaUsaei                           28           60
Abrobrakro-Adiake-Aloo                            39          100
Fraabo-Aboiseo                                    77         48&80
Abois.o-Ayame.-Borobo                              97        170650
Bondoukou-bvn                                     183
1/ Betterment Program under project executed by units four and five.



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Training Program of DCMTP's Staff
1977                                 1978                                  1979                                 1980                                  1981
i4Quarter     1    jj2            3        4         1         2         3                1         1         3                 1        2         3        4        1          2
Maater M-echaica                                                      10
100
1~~~~i                                                                               i i
Mechanica (Repair)                                                    1
10   10        10                 10       10        10                 10
M.chani.. (Maintenance).                                                                -       ,..                                             .       ,
Mechanica (Lubrification)                                    1         1
Mechanics (Electrics)                                                          -----
Mechanica (Dieael Injection)                                              -
Accounting/Inventory                                                       Tx ining ac ording t needs
Drivers                                                                   R. cruimeent in actor ance wit] equipme t delive =y. Tw   d ye of t- ining
8       8          Y             8                       8                          A R          RR
Equipment Operators                                           8        8
Chief of Equipment Brigades                    8                                                                       8
basic training
----------follow-up
training
1/ Number of trainees
Source: Mission
March, 1977



'YORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Key MPWTrU Personnel to be Assigned to
Consultants BCEOM|BERGER for Betterment Program and Equipment Repair
1977                                   1978                                1979                                1980
z
Civil Engineers
DER ( Director)                     1
DERP (Assistant Director)           1                              .
CATP (Director)                     1
Technicians
DER (Technicians)                   3                              :2)
DERP (Technicisnr)                  1
DERP (Chiefs of Brigades)           2
DERP (Foremen for Brigades)         4                                                    (2)                                   f2)
DCMTP(Material Inspector)           1
DCMTP(Technical Inspectors)         3
DCMTP(Chief ef Equipment
Procurement)                  1
DOMTP(Mechanical Trainee)           1
Chief of Workshops
a)  Korhogo                         1
b) Daloa                            1
c) San Pedro                        1
d)  Man                             1
e)  Boundoukou                      1
Personnel to be
recruited and trained.
Master Mechanics                   40                                (10)                                  (10)                                 (10)                                 10)
Mechanics (Repair)                 44                      (14)                          (10)                       (10)                                  ( 10)
Mechanics (Maintenance)            70                                (10)                                  ( (10)   ( 1t      ( 10)             (10)
Mechanics (Lubrification)          60                       (10)     (10)      (10)                        (10)      (10)                       (10)
Mechcnics (Electric)               24                       (6)                                  (6)                                   (6)                                  (6)
Mechanics (Injection Df esel)      20                      (5)                                   (5)                                   (5)                                  (5)
Equipment Operators                80                                (5)       (5)      (5)    x (5)                                   (5)      (5)       (5)       (5)     (5)
Equipment Chiefs                   16                                              |                                                   (       3 .  |  |                    (5) ]
()(B)                                                                                    in0.
I                                                                                                             i.e



Table 16
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROADS AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Betterment Program for Primary and Secondary Roads
Economic Costs and Benefitsl/
(CFAF million)
--      INCREMENTAL COSTS -----------         -----------BENEFITS------------------------
Year   Vehicules&     Operation   Total      Savings in2/   Residual Value      Total%/     Net4/
Equipment                  Costs     Vehicule Ope-   of Equipment      Benefits   Benefits
rating Costs    & Vehicules
1978     595          160.5      755.5           -                              -          -755
1979     595          481.5    1,076.5          212                            212         -864
1980                  642.0      642.0          299                            299         -343
1981                  642.0      642.0          787                            787         -145
1982                    -                     1,152           743.8          1,902        1,902
1983                                          1,279                          1,279        1,279
1984                                          1,404                          1,404        1,404
1985                                          1,541                          1,541        1,541
1986                                          1,686                          1,686        1,686
1987                                          1,426                          1,426        1,426
1988                                         1,451                           1,451        1,451
Internal Economic Rate of Return    36%
1/ Source - BCEOM, 1977 mission estimates
2/  Voc savings=                            t
-          t   a vocv OADTv (1   iv)    365. Lt,ADT
v-l
Where:  voct = annual vehicle operating cost savings starting the year the
improved road is opened to traffic.
b vocv = vehicle operating costs savings due to road betterment by type of
vehicle.
v = 1 - passenger cars/taxi/pick up.
v - 2 - light trucks/buses of 1-2 tons capacity.
v = 3 - trucks of 3 to 10 tons capacity.
v =,4 - trucks of 18 to 25 tons capacity.
ADTv = average daily traffic by type of vehicle.
iv =    average annual rate of Frowth of traffic bv tvne of vehicle.
LtADT = length of the road segment becoming operational at time t,
associated with a daily traffic ADT.
3/  Total benefitst - Savings in operating costst-r residual valuet
4/  Net benefitst = Total benefitst- Total costst



Table 17
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Betterment Program for Primary and Secondary Roads
Traffic Composition and Vehicle Operating Costs Savings
Traffic         Mix          User Savings   % average
Vehicle Type         Group 4 0orth)   Group 5 (outh)    VOC/km       Annual Traffic
%               %             (CFAF)      Growth Based on
the 1969-1975
data
Light Vehicles
Passenger cars-taxi         19              50            5.2             14.9
Light truLks-bus           54               23           15.32             7.3
3 - 10 tons                21               21           24.18            10.4
18 - 25 ton capacity        6                6           53.0              8.8
Source:  'SETEC, Transport Survey Study, Dec. 1976
Mission Estimates.
July 5, 1977



Table 18
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Thousand)
IBRD Fiscal Year        Disbursements        Cumulative Disburse-    Undisbursed
During Quarter       ments at End of         at End of
Quarter              Quarter
1977-78
Sept. 30, 1977                                                          29000
Dec. 31, 1977                   -                      -                29000
March 31, 1978               6000                   6000                23000
June 30, 1978                 700                   6700                22300
1978-79
Sept. 30, 1978                900                   7600                21400
Dec. 31, 1978                 900                   8500                20500
March 31, 1979               3500                  12000                17000
June 30, 1979                3500                  15500                13500
1979-80
Sept. 30, 1979               1400                  16900                12100
Dec. 31, 1979                1400                  18300                10700
March 31, 1980               1300                  19600                 9400
June 30, 1980                1300                  20900                 8100
1980-81
Sept. 30, 1980                300                  21200                 7800
Dec. 31, 1980                2300                  23500                 5500
March 31, 1981               1200                  24700                 4300
June 30, 1981                1200                  25900                 3100
1981-82
Sept. 30, 1981               1200                  27100                 1900
December 31, 1981            1200                  28300                  700
March 31, 1982                300                  28600                  400
June 30, 1982                 400                  29000                   -
Source: Mission Estimate



ANNEX 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Bank Group Activities in the Road Sector
1.        First Highway Project (Loan 524-IVC, US$5.8 million, 1968; Project
Performance Audit Report, June 28, 1.977) consisted of 60 km of road construc-
tion, feasibility studies and detailed engineering of about 700 km of road.
Construction under this project was completed in mid-1971, and the studies
were completed in 1974. The latter, together with a UNDP-financed Transport
Survey formed the basis of the Second Highway Project.
2.        Second Highway Project (Loan 761-IVC, US$20.5 million, 1971) con-
sisted of construction of two roads totalling 170 km and detailed engineering
studies of about 200 km of roads. During project execution the Bank agreed to
finance a study of road user taxation by eliminating part of the engineering
stuidies. The project was completed in 1975.
3.        Third Highway Project (Loan 837-IVC, US$17.5 million, 1972) con-
sisted of a four-year road maintenance and betterment program for unpaved
primary and 'secondary roads, pavement strengthening of 110 km of main roads,
bridge construction and a study of the infrastructure development of Abidjan.
The maintenance and betterment program is progressing satisfactorily, and it
will be extended under the proposed Feeder Road and Highway Maintenance
Project. The remaining project components were completed in mid-1976. Due to
inflation and an increase in construction standards over and above those found
adequate, project costs have increased to 50% above appraisal estimate;
Government is meeting all cost overruns.
4.        Fourth Highway Project (Credit 406-IVC, US$7.5 million, 1973)
consisted of road (90 km) and bridge construction and a study of Leeder road
requirements in cotton growing areas. Road construction costs are about 60%
above appraisal estimates due to inflation and an increase in construction
standards. Government will meet all cost ovrerruns. Works are expected to
be completed in end-1977. The feeder road study formed the basis for
improvement of about 920 km of feeder roads included in the Cotton Areas
Rural Development Project (Loan 1077-IVC, 1975).
5.        Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1161-IVC, US$40.0 million, 1975)
consists of pavement strengthening (200 km) and new road construction (80 km),
road feasibility and engineering studies (300 km), updating of the Transport
Survey, and a study of feeder road requirements (upon which the proposed
project's feeder road improvement program is based), technical assistance
and procurement of equipment. This project is now in its second year of
implementation.
6.        In addition to the projects described above, the Second Cocoa
Project (Loan 1069-IV) contains a feeder road component comprising construc-
tion of 270 km feeder roads and improvement of 60 km of existing roads.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Agricultural Background
A.   The Environment
1.        The Ivory Coast covers 322,500 km   and may be broadly divided
into two ecological zones. The southern half of the country is largely
tropical rain forest with rainfall ranging from 1,500 to 2,000 m; the
northern half is predominantly savannah with an average rainfall of
1,100 mm.
2.        Within the forest area, conditions are favorable for the cultivation
of valuable tree crops like coffee, cocoa, oil palm, coconut and rubber.
Principal food cr2ps are cassava, yams and 5ice. Rural population density
ranges from 24/km in the southeast to 3/km in the southwest, where the
last remaining expanses of virgin forest are found.
3.        The'northern savannah, with accounts for half of the country's area
and 35% of its population, has a less favorable resource endowment than Phe
southern part of the country. Overall population density is low at 9/km , and
there are wide emp'. areas principally in the central part. Until the mid-
1960's, only annual food crops were grown, mostly for subsistence, with minor
market sales of cereals and yams for consumption in urban centers, including
Abidjan. In 1964, cotton was introduced and has since developed rapidly. It
is currently grown by one fourth of the area's inhabitants. Important rice
and sugar developments are also taking place.
4.        Abundant land and, until some years ago, good labor supply (pri-
marily immigrant workers), as well as generally favorable world markets for
its principal products, have assured rapid agricultural growth. In terms of
overall development of the agricultural sector, the record of achievement of
the Ivory Coast has been remarkable, placing the country in a leading posi-
tion in Western Africa.
B.   Agriculture in the Economy
5.        Agriculture and forestry account for about 80% of the Ivory
Coast's exports and 28% of its GDP. They are the basis of the country's
growth and will remain so for many years to come. In 1974 the Ivory Coast's
exports were valued at CFAF 292 billion (US$1,200 million), three commodi-
ties--coffee (22%), timber (18%) and cocoa (21%)--accounted for nearly two
thirds of that value.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        About 75% of the population depends directly or indirectly on
agriculture and forestry. Average per capita rural income is about $130,
compared to an estimated average urban per capita income of US$900. But,
there are also fairly large income disparities within the rural sector
itself.  Average rural income, which exceeds US$220 in the southeast,
drops to about US$110 in the center, where production patterns of the
forest and savannah regions overlap, and falls below US$70 in the north.
These disparities account in part for migration from rural to urban areas
and within the rural areas from the savannah to the forest zone.
7.        Although, until recently, efforts to improve agricultural pro-
ductivity have been mostly focused on individual export crops, substantial
increases in food crop production have been achieved as well, In the last
few years, the Government has turned its attention to the interrelated prob-
lems of rural poverty and regional income disparities. It has undertaken
major programs of cotton and sugar development and additional programs of
oil palm cultivation as part of its plan for regional development. Some
of these programs include food crops in rotation with cash crops.
C.   Main Crops
Food Crops
8.        Food crop production is estimated to have reached 4.4 million tons
in 1975 (Table 1) or about 67% of the total agricultural output (6.6 million
tons). Annual production of yam, the most important staple food, was esti-
mated at 1.75 million tons in 1975. Production is country-wide with some
concentration in the center. Cassava (650,000 tons), and plantain (780,000
tons) come next in the basic diet. Whereas cassava production is widespread,
plantain is produced only in th.e coastal forest zone, Production of maize,
which was 327,000 tons in 1975, is expected to increase by growing maize in
rotation with cotton in the northern savannah area. For these food crops, the
portion of total output marketed is not known, but it is likely to be small
since the crops are primarily produced for home consumption. Traffic surveys
undertaken in 1975 indicate that the following tonnages are transported over
the following d erage distances:
Yam      Cassava    Plantain     Maize
Traffic in 000' tons                   35         35       116          48
Percent of production                  2%         5%       15%          15%
Average distance (km) transported    290        n.a.      180          443
However, these traffic surveys took place on main and secondary roads and
thus probably underestimate the proportion transported and overestimate the
average haul.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        In spite of a rapid development in the sixties and early seventies,
rice production lagged behind a strongly expanding demand due to increas-
ing urbanization, a generally improved standard of living and low prices.
As a result imports reached 150,000 tons in 1973/1974. In 1974, the Govern-
ment decided to raise substantially the official paddy and rice price, which
resulted in a sizable drop in demand and a boost in production from about
335,000 tons in 1973 to about 400,000 tons in 1974 and 460,000 tons in 1975.
Besides eliminating imports in 1974/1975 and 1975/ 1976, this price increase
also contributed to important changes in the marketing and distribution
systems; however, imports were resumed in 1977. Development plans call for
increasing production to reach self-sufficiency and possibly with exports to
neighbouring countries. However, because of high transportation costs, it is
not certain at present that the Ivory Coast would be able to export a surplus
profitably. Since most of the production is consumed locally, only surpluses
amounting to 20% to 25% of production are shipped over long distances to main
cities, Abidjan in particular.
Cash Crops
10.       Cash crops are estimated to have reached 2.2 million tons in
1975 (Table 2). Coffee and cocoa are the main cash crops of Ivory Coast.
In 1974, each accounted for over 20% (CFAF 63 billion) of the total value
of exports (CFAF 292 billion). Ivory Coast is now the world's third producer
of coffee behind Brazil and Colombia. Production was estimated at 278,000
tons in 1975 and could reach 350,000 tons in the mid-eighties with the ongoing
replanting/new planting program. Most of the production is shipped by truck
to Abidjan from where it is exported. Cocoa production has risen by an
average of 10,500 tons or 6.5% annually over the past 15 years. It reached a
record level of 240,000 tons in the 1974/1975 season, and it is forecast to
reach 350,000 tons by 1980. Like coffee, most of cocoa is produced in the
south and central zones where it is collected and shipped by truck over
distances averaging 230 km to the port of Abidjan for export.
ii.       Oil palm, coconut and rubber are other industrial cash crops of
the forest coastal belt. Production and development of oil palm and coconut
are mostly under control of a public agency (SODEPALIM) which manages its own
estates and provides technical assistance to village outgrowers. Production
of fresh fruit bunches is expected to increase from about 650,000 tons
in 1975 to 1.3 million in 1980. TransportatLon of the fruit bunches takes
place only over short distances from the plantation to the oil mill where
they are processed. From there, the oil and kernels are trucked to storage
areas located in Abidjan and San Pedro. Planting of coconut trees is also
expected to increase sharply from 17,000 ha in 1975 to 46,000 in 1980 and
70,000 ha in 1985, under the technical assistance of SODEPALM. Latex produc-
tion reached 17,000 tons in 1975. Other secondary cash crops include bananas
(100,000 tons), pineapples (223,000 tons), avocados and citrus fruit (50,000
tons). Prospects for increasing production and export will depend on the
quality of produce and the efficiency of the transport, marketing and dis-
tribution systems.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.       Cotton is the most important cash crop in the savannah region.    It
provides the main source of cash income for one-third of the 200,000 farm
families living in the area. Production of seed cotton reached 64,000 tons in
1974/1975 and could increase further to 95,000 tons if continued assistance
and adequate price incentives are provided to the farmer. Most of the cotton
is exported, but a rapid expansion of the domestic textile industry is expected
to absorb at least 30,000 tons of cotton by 1980. Total tonnage of cotton
transported by road in 1975 reached 86,000 tons, and the average haul was
345 km.
13.       Timber was the most important export in 1972, with 2.9 million
tons valued at CFAF 66 billion. Production decreased slightly since then,
and exports in 1975 were down to 2 million tons valued at CFAF 46 billion.
Logs accounted for about 90% (1.8 million tons) of total timber exports in
1975 of which 55% (1.0 million tons) was shipped from Abidjan and 45%
(800,000 tons) was shipped from the port of San Pedro. Transport is effected
almost exclusively by logging trucks over distances averaging 225 km. Future
production and export plans are uncertain and will depend principally upon
two factors: the competitive advantage of South Asian sawn timber and
Government policies with regard to forest reserve management and the local
processing of timber.
D.   Livestock and Fisheries
14.       Livestock is estimated at about 420,000 head of cattle; 1.6 million
sheep and goats, 80,000 pigs, and 9-10 million poultry. About two thirds of
the cattle are found in the northern part of the country where trypanosomiasis
is not a serious problem. Livestock development is constrained by ecological
factors and lack of experience and tradition. The Ivory Coast depends heavily
on imports for its supplies, particularly of beef (85%). In order to reduce
imports the Government is encouraging livestock development but the success of
livestock projects will largely rest on their close integration with ongoing
agricultural operations comprising animal traction followed by fattening
operations, introduction of fodder crops in the rotations, and use of crop
by-products as livestock feed.
E.   Main Institutions and Policy Instruments
15.       Overall development planning is in the hands of the Ministry of
Finance, Budget and Planning, which was recently created from three separate
ministries. Detailed agricultural development programs are the responsibility
of the Ministries of Agriculture and of Livestock. Execution of this program
has, until recently, been generally entrusted to autonomous agencies set up by
the Government to promote one or several crops. However, in September 1977,
Government reorganized the above structure and in the new structure SODEPALM,
SOCATCI and CIDT will be responsible for execution of all projects in the
South, Center, and North respectively.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
16.       The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (CSSPPA) is responsible for carrying out the Government's agri-
cultural price support policies. It supports producer prices for cotton,
cocoa and coffee in a conventional manner, paying a guaranteed minimum
price fixed annually, selling the commodities on the world market, and
absorbing profits or losses on its operations. CSSPPA surpluses have
partly been used for new investments, mainly in the agricultural sector
but also roads.
17.       The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), the
main source of agricultural credit, has so far operated through the auton-
omous development agencies, which handle credit distribution and recovery.
For these purposes BNDA has used its own equity and a line of rediscount
with the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). BNDA
is establishing branches in the rural areas to deal directly with farmers
and farmers' groups.
F. Development Strategy
18.       The Government's objective, as recently reformulated, is to place
rather less emphasis on growth and to redirect efforts to raise the income
of low-income rural segments of the population such as small-scale farmers
in the Northern Region. Agriculture and rural development will, therefore,
continue to receive high priority but with the emphasis on equalizing rural
income rather than accelerating growth and foreign exchange earnings. None-
thrless, it is clear that the latter objective will still receive some
cunsideration. In addition to these objectives, the Government also seeks
to increase food production and decrease reliance on imports and to diversify
production of exportable products.
G.   Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by the Bank
19.       Loan 611-IVC-Palmivoire US$3.3 million equivalent (June 13, 1969)5
The project consisted of establishing and bringing into production 4,000 ha
of oil palms at Ehania estate. The loan became effective on December 30,
1969. Planting was completed in 1972 and plantation maintenance has been
satisfactory.
20.       Loan 612-IVC-Palmindustrie US$4.8 million equivalent (June 13,
1969): The project financed the construction of a palm oil mill to service
the 10,000 ha Ehania estate and some outgrowers. The loan became effective
on December 30, 1969.
21.       Loan 513-IVC-Sodepalm US$9.0 million equivalent (June 13, 1969):
The project consisted of the establishment and bringing into production of
12,000 ha of outgrower oil palms, the establishment and maintenance until
1974 of 3,500 ha of estate coconuts and 3,000 ha of outgrower coconuts,
the provision of credit and supervisory services for oil, palm and coconut
outgrowers and the necessary infrastructure associated with the 3,500 ha
of estate coconuts. The loan became effective on December 30, 1969.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
22.       The above three loans were the first Bank operations in support
of the oil palm sector in the Ivory Coast. After a relatively slow start,
disbursements of the Bank loans accelerated and are now completely disbursed;
physical progress has been satisfactory.
23.       Loan 686-IVC-Cocoa Project US$7.5 million equivalent (June 5, 1970):
This project consists of the planting of 18,000 ha of cocoa and the rehabili-
tation of about 15,500 ha of existing cocoa plantations; it became effective
in November 1970 and has been completed. The project proceeded satisfactorily
except for administrative problems which delayed submission of requests for
reimbursement. The administration of this and the recently approved second
cocoa project will be combined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa will be
planted under the second project.  Physical execution of the first project is
considered to be completed.
24.       Loans 759-IVC and 760-IVC-Sodepalm and Palmindustrie US$7.0 million
equivalent (June 22, 1971): The project consists of (a) planting 4,500 ha
outgrower oil palms, (b) 4,500 ha of outgrower coconut palms, and (c) 8,000
ha of coconut palms on Government-owned land. The oil mill was commissioned
in December 1972, and is operating satisfactorily. The planting programs are
proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
25.       Loan 938-IVC-SOCATCI Rubber Estate US$8.4 million equipment
(October 23, 1973): The purpose of the loan is to finance, pari passu with
CCCE and FED, the planting of 13,500 ha of modern rubber estates and the
establishment of auxiliary services under the management of "Etablissement
Michelin", a French tire manufacturer. The project ran into infrastructure
and management problems. When these two constraints were corrected, a short-
age of field labor reduced planting, and the project objectives had to be
reduced to match the original cost estimates. Plantings are now expected
to cover about 7,000 ha and to be completed by 1979.
26.       Loan 1036-IVC-Sodepalm and Palmivoire US$2.6 milion equivalent
(July 31, 1974): This loan became effective in August 1975. The loan is a
follow-up to a previous loan from CCCE, provides for the planting of 5,000 ha
of oil palm by outgrowers and 5,500 on SODEPALM estates. Implementation
of the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
27.       Loan 1069-IVC-Ivory Coast Government Second Cocoa Project
US$20.0 million equivalent (January 10, 1975): More than 50% of the total
planting foreseen for the five-year project period was completed in 1976.
Block planting has been behind schedule due to difficulties in infra-
structure development.
28.       Loan 1077-IVC-Ivory Coast Government Cotton Areas Rural Develop-
ment Project US$31.0 million equivalent (January 17, 1975): Physical
progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of over-
estimated increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has
caused problems. Although the village water supply and feeder road
programs was originally delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken
to implement both programs.



ANNEX 2
Tab le .
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Agricu ltural Product ior. 1960-1965-1970/75
Main Food Crops
(Volume ir thousand tone; Value in CFAF million)
Crop/Year           1960    1965    1970    1971     1972    1973    1974    1975-1
Maize
Volume              147     200     231     280     225      232     240     327
Value              1764    2400    2930    3612    2903     2993    3406     n.a.
Sorghum-Millet
Volume               52      45      43      45      38      46       46      78
Value               842     731    1076    1114     951     1114    1267     n.a.
Yam
Volume             1150    1300    1551    1555    1520     1624    1680    1750
Value             13800   16900   15510   15550   15700    16240   18480     n.a,
Cassava
Volume             450      500     540     567     555     625      625     650
Value             3150     4000    5400    5670    5350    6250     6875     n.ad
Plantain
Volume             490      600     650     670     690     665      720     780
Value             3430     4800    4030    4154    4275    4092     4910     n.a.
Taro
Volume              135     158     182     180     175     200      206     247
Value              945     1120    1274    1383    1305     1400    1586     n.a.
Sweet Potato
Volume               18      20      21      21      21       21      23      13
Value               144     160     168     168     168      168     202     n.a.
Groundnut
Volume               24      28      43      41      40      44       47      50
Value               600     644     770     741     750      796     934     n.a.
Paddy
Volume              160     250     316     385     320      335     406     460
Value              2880    4500    6320    7700    6770     8375   26890     n.a.
Subtotal
Volume             2626    3101    3577    3744    3584    3792     3993    4355
Value            27555    35255   37478   40092   38172   41428    64550     n.a.
1/ The 1975 figures are based on the 1974/75 agricultural census.
Source: 1960/74 - Minist6rc du Plan. La Cbte d'Ivoire en chiffres (1976)
1975    - Ministbre de l'Agriculture - Statistiques.
March, 1977



ANNFX 2
IVORY WA5T                          Table 2
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGH'WQAY MIAINTENANCE PROJECT
Agricultural Productions-1960-1965-19M2I75
Mnir Crops
(Volume in thousand tons; Value in CFAF million)
grqpfYeTr         1960    15S5    1970    1971     1972    1973    1974    1975
Coffee
Volume           137     213     275      241    283      277    199      278
Value          13508   19150   26950    25044  30145    30772  24562      n,a,
Cocoa
Volume .         86      134     168      232    200      179    223      238
Value          7797     8506   14252    19996  17647      725  33365      n*a.
Oil Palm (bunches)
Volume          298      329     480      539    687     686     916      980
Value           941     1031    1792     1974   2609     2670   6551      n.a,
Coprm
Volume             2       4      10       11     12       13     14       14
Value            66       99     310      335    380     471     667      n.a,
Rubber ( latex)
Volume           -         4      11       14      15      15     17       17
Value            -       372     900      928    86      1763   2477      n,a.
EBnana
Volume           80      138     179      188    212      177    208     -100
Value          1743     2923    3716     3944   4514    3336    4961      n.a,
PinM22le
Volume           20       44     111      139    203      199    228      223
Value           268      523    1538     1833   2549    2547    3325      n.a,
Cotton
Volume            7       10      34       31     49      54      59       64
Value            192    369     1176     1221   1953    2153    2B90      n,a,
Tobacco
Volume            2        2       2        2      3       3       3        5
Value           165       216    166      178    191     221     252      n,ai
Citrus
Volume             1       5      19       28     30      38      50      n;c,
Value             11      54     230      345    350     397    476       n.a.
Subtotal
Volume          633      683    1289     1425   1694    1641    1917     1920
Value         24691   33303    51036    56398 61324    63132  8006       n,a,
Source: 1950/1974 - Ministere du Plan. La Cote d'Ivoire en hiffres (1976)
1975      - Ministere de l'Agriculture - Statistiques
Marchh, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Details of Technical Assistance to MPWTCU for Feeder Road Works
1.        Consultants would be engaged to provide technical assistance to
MPWTCU for the feeder road works.   The following personnel is required (refer-
ence is also made to Table 1 of this Annex):
(1)  Chief of Technical Assistance Team (36 months) 1/
Qualifications: Civil Engineer (minimum 10 years professional
experience) with experience in (i) planning, construction
and supervision of road works, including low cost roads;
(ii) public works administration; and (iii) personnel manage-
ment and training;
His duties will be, inter-alia, to:
(i)  maintain overall responsibility for work of technical
assistance team;
(ii) plan, direct, supervise and monitor implementation of
improvement and maintenance works in close cooperation
with his counterpart;
(iii) implement adequate accounting and reporting procedures;
(iv) develop with the economist a long term strategy for
feeder road improvement and maintenance;
(v)  in cooperation with the economist plan and undertake
traffic censuses; and
(vi) draw-up a training program for permanent and temporary
lo-zal staff (para. 2), provide on-the-job training to
his counterpart and other professional personnel to
ensure that local personnel can gradually take over
project responsibility.
(2) Senior Technician (20 months)
Qualifications: (minimum 8 years professional experience)
with experience in construction/maintenance of low cost roads,
1/   Effective working period excluding leave time.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
His duties will be, inter-alia, to:
(i) prepare contract documents for road works to be
contracted and evaluate contractors bids in close
cooperation with his counterpart;
(ii)  supervise, guide and assist contractors;
(iii)  assist in planning, directing, supervising and
monitoring the implementation of improvement and
maintenance works on force account; and
(iv) provide on-the-job training to local staff.
(3)  Economist for Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
(10 months total, at periodic intervals)
Qualifications: Degree in economics (minimum 5 years pro-
fessional experience) with experience in program p:eparation/
evaluation in agriculture and transporLation.
His duties will be, inter-alia, to:
(i) define criteria for feeder road development and
selection;
(ii)  draw-up annual feeder road programs;
(iii)  monitor the socio-economic aspects and impacts
of feeder road improvements being undertaken;
(iv)  provide on-the-job training to local counterparts; and
(v)  supervise and analyze a sample program of traffic count-
ing on project roads.
(4)  Mechanical Inspector (20 months)
Qualifications: Mechanic (minimum 10 years professional
experience partly obtained in developing countries)
in maintenance and repair of road construction equip-
ment.
His duties will be, inter-alia, to:
(i)  provide overall responsibility for equipment
maintenance and repair; and
(ii)  provide on-the-job training to local mechanics as
well as provide training as part of an organized
training program for local mechanics.



AiNEX 3
Page 3
(5), (6), (7) Technicians (20-30 months)
Qualifications: Technician or inspector of work with training
as mechanic or surveyor (minimum 8 years professional experi-
ence) with experience in operation of mechanized road brigades
(as chief of brigade) in developing countries.
His duties will be, inter-alia, to:
(i) plan and direct the work of two road improvement
brigades ensuring adequate efficiency and quality;
and
(ii)  conduct on-the-job training of local staff (chief
of subdivisions, chief of brigades) to ensure that
the daily operations of the brigades can be
competently handled after his departure.
(8), (9), (10) Mechanics (20-30-month)
Qualifications: Mechanic with experience partly obtained
in developing countries in maintenance and repair of road
construction equipment.
His duties will be, inter-alia, to:
(i) plan and direct all equipment maintenance for two
road improvement brigades;
(ii) direct all equipment repairs for two road improvement
brigades; and
(iii) conduct on-the-job training to local mechanics.
2.        The Government would provide the following permanent personnel
in advance of the arrival of the experts by whom they should be trained:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
For the Division of Feeder Roads
No.
Project Coordinator                         1
Engineer or Senior Technician               1
Economist                                   1 (part time)
Accountant                                  1
For Each Brigade on Force Account
Chief of Brigade                            1
Mechanic                                    2
For Supervision of Each Contractor's Brigade
Technician                                  1
Works Inspector of Works                    1
For Each Regional Workshop (where brigades
are working)
Chief Mechanic                              1
For Each Regional Directorate (where brigades
are working)
(to establish a drawing office)
Senior Technician as Chief                  1
Draftsman                                   1
Surveyor                                    1
For Each Regional Subdivision (where brigades
are working)
Senior Technician                           1
Accountant                                  1



MIRY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Feeder Road Works
Technical Assistance      Mnhs. 1977       1978    1979   1980      1981   1980     Key MPWTCU Project Personnel
Feeder Road Divisiont
Team Leader, Engineer            36   .-------------------                                Project Chief
Senior Technician                20                        .                          .   Engineer or Senior Technician
---- -- -.- -- - -  --
Economist                        10                ---    -         ---                   Economist (part time)
Brigade Personnel
Brigade Technician No 1          30           .-----------------------                    Chief of Brigade 62 Mechanics
Chief of Brigade & O Mechanics
Brigade Technician No. 2         20               ----.------ ------Chief of Brigade & 2 Mechanics
Chief of Brigade & 2 Mechanics
Brigade Technician No. 3         20                                                       Chief of Brigade & 2 Mechanins
Chief of Brigade & 2 Mechanics
Directorate of Eguipment
Mechanical InspeciDr             20                    -------.-                          Mechanical Inspector
Chief Mechanic No. 1             30                  ---------------                      Chief Mechanic
Chief Mechanic NO. 2             20                   -------                             Chief Mechanic
Chief Mechanic No. 3             20                       --------------                  Chief Mechanic
Home Office Support               2
Total            228
Source    Mission (------- Technical aAssistance)
.    -Key NMWTCU Project Personnel)
March, 1977                                                                                                                   I



ANNEX 4
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Guidelines for Evaluation and Planning of Feeder Road Works
A.   Objectives
1.        Within the Feeder Road Section of MPWTCU a capability would be
developed to:
-    undertake on a continuous basis the economic, traffic,
engineering and social aspects of the project;
-    define the second and subsequent years' programs of
feeder road improvement and maintenance; and
-    prepare physical and financial plans for the second and
subsequent years' programs of feeder road improvement and
maintenance.
2.        These tasks would be the responsibility of the Chief of the new
Feeder Road Section assisted by a Transport/Development Economist and other
technical assistance staff and their Ivorian counterparts. The Government
would, no later than three months before a new program starts, forward the
proposed program to the Bank for review and approval.
3.        In a project of the size of that proposed, extending over nearly
four years and to be followed by a second phase, it is important to improve
progressively the effectiveniess of the analysis and planning in order to
minimize risks and to maximize benefits. In view of the size of the project,
measurements of traffic and transport costs will 1- carried out on a sampling
basis although detailed studies of particular roads should be made to the
extent that time permits. Particular importance is placed on this proposed
evaluation and planning operation not only to control the implementation and
to improve the quality of this and subsequent projects, but also as an import-
ant stage in institution building. It is through participation in these
activities that Ivorian staff can best be trained.
B.   Methodology
4.        Economic Evaluation and Planning.   Activities will include:
(a) measuring traffic flows on a statistical sample of selected
project roads with higher traffic volumes using automatic
counters to establish annual traffic and seasonal variations,
supplemented by visual counts to establish traffic composi-
tion;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) for all project roads collecting data on,
(i) population size and location;
(ii)  agricultural crop production and sales by crop type
and location;
(iii)  timber production and sales, and
(iv)  investment in economic and social fields; with these
and the traffic data, examine relationships that may
exist between the different variables to improve future
planning estimates used in the evaluation of road improve-
ment programs;
(c)  maintaining up-to-date records of vehicle operating costs and
transport charges on project roads;
(d)  for the second and subsequent years' programs:   refining the
data for the proposed roads and making use of any improved
relationships established as a result of (a) and (b) above and
engineering inventories, undertaking the necessary evaluation
to prepare annual road improvement programs; and
(e)  identifying and analyzing and operational difficulties affecting
the project.
Engineering Evaluation and Planning. Activities will include:
(a)  evaluating the productivity and costs of the force account
brigades and of contractors;
(b)  evaluating the quality of operations and the rate of deterioration
of project roads in relation to materials, rainfall, traffic and
maintenance effort and techniques;
(c)  resulting from data obtained from (a) and (b) proposing any
necessary modifications to methods of execution, type of equip-
ment and road standards; and
(d)  undertaking inventories of proposed project roads and elaborating
work programs and cost estimates.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Feeder Road Works
A.   Objectives
1.        The proposed project has two basic objectives:
(a) to promote and facilitate growth in the agricultural sector
by providing roads of an adequate standard to carry the
predicted levels of traffic at reasonable cost; and
(b) to provide reliable and cheap access (i) between rural
communities and (ii) to social and administrative services.
These objectives are also stated as priorities in-the current 1976-1978
Public Investment Program.
B.   Roads Studies
2.        Ivory Coast has more than 32,000 km of classified tertiary and
non-classified roads serving rural communities. Of these roads, about
12,000 km are already being maintained or improved as part of specific
projects or by existing agricultural and regional development organizations.
Consequently the following roads were excluded from the BCEOM Feeder Roads
Study from which the project roads were selected:
-    SODEPALM 4,500 km on palm-oil and coconut plantations;
-    Cotton Project roads 4,500 km (including the Bank-financed
Cotton Area Rural Development Project);
-    Authority for the Improvement of the Bandama Valley (AVB)
1,000 km; and
-    Cocoa Project and others, 2,000 km.
The study examined approximately 20,000 km of roads located throughout the
country. In the north, where many feeder roads are already included under
the Cotton Area Rural Development Project, the kilometrage of roads studied
was relatively lower. Approximately 2.15 million inhabitants or 45% of the
country's rural population were served by the about 1,160 roads included
in the study.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
C.   Evaluation Methodology
3.        The roads were evaluated in the following way:
(a) each section of road was assessed in engineering terms
and costed for improvement to 4.5 m, 6.0 m, or 8.0 m,
all weath-.r standards;
(b) typical vehicle operation costs were estimated for
existing and improved roads (Annex 5, Table 1) allowing
for dry and wet season operations on the unimproved roads;
(c) employing traffic estimates for normal and generated
traffic and predictions for a 10-year analysis period
the voc savings derived from road improvement to the
different standards were estimated, taking into account
traffic distribution between dry and wet seasons;
(d) in deciding whether to improve a road to 4e5 m or
6.0 m standard, a test marginal rate of return of 12%
was employed for the proposed first year's program; and
(e) overall cut-off rate of 12% was employed in selecting
roads for the first year's progral of proposed project.
Engineering
4.        The roads studied were identified from:   (a) a 1972-73 study by
Fonds Regionaux pour l'Amenagement Rural (FRAR) of agricultural road needs
of prefectures and sub-prefectures; (b) a survey by MPWTCU in their sub-
divisions in January 1976 to ascertain improvement needs of classified and
non-classified roads; (c) a survey in 1976 of feeder road needs by AVB and
Autorite pour l'Amenagement de le Region du Sud-Ouest (ARSO); and (d)
enquiries among regional offices of MPWT and Ministries of Agriculture, and
Water and Forest during 1976.
5.        Of the approximately 20,000 km of roads included in the study,
road inventories were carried out on about 10,000 km. The road condition
and probable improvement works needed on the non-inventoried roads were
assumed to correspond to the average of the inventoried roads in the same
area. Unit construction costs were calculated for clearing, earthworks,
drainage structures and gravelling for each region. Based on the inventory,
sections of road were identified and costed which required improvement to
either 4.5 m standard, 6.0 m standard or in exceptional cases 8.0 m standard.
The choice of road standard was based on estimated traffic and consequently
vehicle operating :ost savings, indicative traffic thresholds being estab-
lished for each standard.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Traffic Estimation
6.        Traffic on individual roads was estimated for 1977 and 1987 as a
function of regional agricultural production, marketing patterns, and
the population in affected areas. Twenty-three traffic counts were carried
at representative points to check the estimated figures and also to obtain
data on traffic composition. The number and duration of these traffic counts
is insufficient to develop statistical tests but they indicate that below
about 30 vpd the methodology adopted slightly underestimates traffic and
above 50 vpd overestimates traffic. The proposed project includes a program
of traffic counts using both automatic counters and visual counts to establish
seasonal traffic variation, absolute traffic flows and the composition of
traffic. This information will be used to: (a) provide more accurate data
for the improvement program in the second and subsequent years; in particular,
data to be used in establishing the optimum standard of road improvement and
resources required for road maintenance; and (b) improve methods of traffic
estimating and forecasting.
Vehicle Operating Costs
7.        Table 1 of this Annex details vehicle operating costs (voc) of the
representative vehicles used in the evaluation. The costs on the improved
roads are given for roads 4.5 m wide, 6.0 m wide and 8 m wide. The costs
for the unimproved roads are given for the dry season and for the rainy
season, the duration of which varies from one part of the contry to another.
8.        For any particular road, the voc' s are calculated using the
following notation:
Y - percenitage of existing road length in "bad"
condition during the wet season and in "fair"
condition during the dry season. The remaining
part of road (1-Y) is assumed in fair condition
during the wet season and in good condition
during dry season. Voc per km on road condi-
tion "i" (i = 1 for 8.0 m road in good condi-
tion; i = 2 for 6.0 m road in good condition;
i = 3 for 4.5 m road in good condition all the
year or an unimproved road in "fair" condition
during the dry season; i = 4 for an unimproved
"fair" condition road in the wet season or for
an unimproved "bad" condition road during the
dry season; i = 5 for an unimproved "bad" condi-
tion road during the wet season). These refer-
ence numbers apply to Table 1 of this Annex.
ss - dry season.
sh - wet season.



ANNEX 5
Page  4
Thus, the average vehicle operating cost for each vehicle type on unimproved
roads isz
C (sh) = vehicle/km (y C5 + (1-y) C4' during wet season.
C (ss) = vehicle/km (y C4 + (l-y) C 3) during dry season.
After improvement, the average vehicle voc for each vehicle type becomes
C  (4.5 m), C2 (6.0 m) or C1 (8.0 m) during the whole year.    Given these
savings for each vehicle type and for dry and wet season, and the volume of
traffic by type and season, total vehicle operating cost savings have been
calculated for each relevant level of road improvement on a road by road
basis.
9.        For each road a stream of costs and benefits was estimated for the
10-year analysis period and economic rates of return calculated for each road.
For transition from a 4.5 m road to a 6.0 m road, a test marginal rate of
return of 12% was applied for the first year's program (para. 5.03).
D.   Socio-Economic Factors
10.       The proposed first year road improvement program has been selecLed
on the basis of roads yielding an economic rate of return of at least 12%
with the benefits derived from vehicle operating cost savings. However, it
was also considered desirable to assess each road in terms of socio-economic
indicators. Thus, each road, while being economically justified, would
have an estimated value in socio-economic terms which could, if desired,
be used to match the investment with specific social objectives. While
socio-economic indicators have not been used to select the roads included in
the first year's program, their application is suggested for establishing
priorities in future programs.
11.       The socio-economic indicators assessed were:
(a)  "secondary benefits" related to touristic, international
transport or regional development needs;
(b) distribution of vehicle operating cost savings among the
rural population mainly peasant farmers;
(c) the size of the population served by the road;
(d) the improvement in the road's reliability as a result
of the reduction in the amount of time the road was
closed due to rain;
(e) the number of social service units (e.g. schools and
clinics) served by the road; and



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(f) the type of administration connection (e.g. countryside
to village, village to regional center, etc.).
For each of these social indicators a road would score from 0 to 10.
12.       In order to provide an overall socio-economic evaluation the
economic rate of return was also scored from 0 to 10 (0 corresponding to
ERR < 0%; 1 to 0% < ERR < 4%; ... 10 to ERR > 36%) and then combined with
the social indicator scores using a system of weights. Three series of
weights were tested.
Weights
1         2         3
-    Internal Rate of Return          33         50        30
-    Distribution of Benefits         10         10        10
-    Population Seived                10          5        10
-    Improvement in Road Reliability  10         10        10
-    Social Services Served           10         10        10
-    Administrative Connection        10          5        10
-    Touristic. International
or Regional Development
Interest                       17         10        10
TOTAL                      100        100       100
The results of this scoring and weighting system are given in Table 12
of the text and Table 2 of this Annex.
13.       The economic rate of return (except in the case of roads serving
timber concessions) and "population served" are population related; both
"social services served" and "administrative connections" are also population
related although to a lesser extent. Distribution of benefits is related to
the economic structure of the area served. With the exception of roads
primarily concerned with heavy timber traffic, those roads yielding an econo-
mic rate of return of 12% and above have a population per kilometer of road
(assuming a 3 km width of influence either side of road) seldom falling below
200 and on average about 250 persons per km of road, while those roads with a
rate of return less than 8% have a popjlation of less than 100 per kilometer
of road or less than 17 persons per km . Improvement in "road reliability"
is related to the economic rate of return as it is an indication of the level
of improvement to the road and hence the size of vehicle operating cost



ANNEX 5
Page 6
savings. The "touristic, international. and regional development inlterest",
which was treated in the study as a secondary benefit, appeared to be of low
significance among the roads studied.
E.   Discussions of Study Results
14.       All prices are net of taxes and duties and no shadow pricing was
employed. Related to this latter point is the question of the possible
use of construction and maintenance methods employing a large element of
labour. Labour-intensive methods were examined but were considered to be
unsuitable for the following reasons:
(a)  the rural areas of the Ivory Coast-- especially those of high
agricultural potential-- are generally short of labour, and
this shortage may become more pronounced with the planned rate
of increase in agricultural production of 7% per annum,
while the rural population is expected to increase only by
about 2% per annum;
(b)  it is Government policy that the rural population would not be
employed on road-works at the expense of agricultural produc-
tion; and
(c) even arbitrary shadow pricing the foreign exchange content of
equipment-intensive operations at 150% (which is higher than
justified for the Ivory Coast) the economic cost of construction
by labour-intensive methods is higher than by using mechanized
brigades.
15.       In general, the traffic level yielding a marginal rate of return of
12% on the incremental investment to improve a road to 6.0 m width rather than
4.5 m was 25 vpd in the "opening" year assuming a traffic growth of 8% per
annum and a 10-year analysis period. Sections are proposed for improvement
to 8.0 m standards if the 1987 traffic is above 150 vpd; these are most
frequently the sections adjacent to the main or secondary road passing through
large villages with considerable road-side friction.
16.       It is anticipated that at least between 35% and 45% of thlXe savings
in vehicle operating costs may, on average, accrue to the population (peasant
farmers) served by the improved roads. This is the result of the competition
for passenger transport and for the transport by pickups and small trucks
for which rates are not fixed. Present over-capacity in the transport in-
dustry also stimulates competition. The monitoring function included in the
proposed project will be concerned inter alia with obtaining further informa-
tion on benefits and their distribution.
19.       Using a minimum rate of return of 12% to justify road improvements,
improvment of 158 roads totalling 4,304 km was found economically justified
assuming construction in 1978. Of this total 1,343 km justified improvement



ANNEX 5
Page 7
to 4.5 m standard, 2,636 km juistified improvement to 6.0 m standard and 325
km to 8.0 m standard. These roads are listed in Table 12 of the text (First
Year Improvement Program) and Table 2 of this Annex together with the estimated
social indices. The overall rate of return for these roads is 24%.



. >nn2x-
Table 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHNAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Mean Vehicle Operatin   Costs by RoadTyp
(CFAF/kin. Jannuary, 1979)
Road    Improved 8       Improved 6.0    Improved 4,5      Unimproved     Jnimproved
Type  meter wide       meter wide      meter wide        ry season       Wet season
cle Type         Net of   With   Net of    With Net of With        Net o7 With     Net of    With
Tax                          Tax     Tax     Tax    Tax      Tax      Tax         Tax       Tax
iCar/Taxi         21.3     31,9 ,224      33.64 j 23.4      35.09   27,17   40.92     32.92   49.79
Pick-up
11/                                                                                      120.85
Bush-Bus         51 ,2    70.8   53,9    74.61   57D94     79.23   6B862   93,92     88.19  120.85
i    /    iI                              i                                           I
Light Trucks   I49.3      6s8.6  51.871 72.24    57.68     79.12   72.01   98.45     89.:9r  123045
Heavy Trucks   i69.2      89.5    72A881 94.24   82,02    105eO3 10504     153552   130,5 z17 168.53
4/
ISemi-trailer   1230.4    312.8 '242.571329.26   249,41 .330.     '3440? .452,74    444,91 1 619
I                     ___ ,__ ,1,___ ,_                   _ - -__          -
1/C 20 passengers
2/ 1-2 tons capacity
3/ 3-10 tons capacity (average 5.5 tons)
4/ timber carrying vehicles 25 tons capacity
Source : Consultant, BCEOM and Mission es timates
March, 1977



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HGTGF)AY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
List of Feeder RoadJs with Rate of Return Greater than l12l
Other than Those Incluled in First Year 's Road Improvement Prqo am
District and            Length of Road         Investment     Internal Rate    Socio-Economic Indices
Road Number      4.5m   6.Om   8.Om   Total    Cost           of Return             rnative weights)
km     km     km      km    CFAF million          X            1      2      3
ABIDJAN
0601                    14     -       14        19.2            4Z             63     73     61
0106             -      63     -       63        86.7             40            46     61     44
0104             6      14     24      44        96.7            27             58     71     58
om i             -       7     -        7         9.6            18             45     47     45
1 ODB           13      12     -       25       28.2             22             42     46     42
0702            37       9     -       46        45.7             18            30     31     30
,56    119    24      199
A801S:30
0109             7       6     -       13        11.5            40             61     71     59
0107             5      23     10      30        86.8             40            59     70     58
0110             -       5     -        5         6.5            31             53     60     52
0101             3      13     14      30        57.9            30             56     68     54
0205             4       4     -        8        11.5            24             44     46     42
0106             5       8     -       13        8.9             39.            48     60     46
0103             6      18     -       24        35.2             16            41     41     37
0203             8      11     -       19        46.0             19            39     43     40
0211                    24     -       24        45.6            21             36     41     36
0105             8       9     -       17        40.1            16             31     32     31
0204            10       -     -       10        16.7             12            34     34     32
0201             5       7     -       12        20.3             12            33     33     31
0112             8       -     -        8        10.3             13            31     32     32
0102             6      13     -       19        17.9             14            35     38     35
75     141     24   . 240
AD-ZP-E
0102                    15     -       15        20.3            31             66     73     67                   o
0103             I       5     -        9         9.6             19            57     60     61
0201             -       5     -        5        6.3             19             54     57     54
01301           15      13     -       28        26.9            22             65      6     65



DisLrict and                                                       Internal Rate    Socio-tconomic Indices
Road Number         4,5m   6.Om   8.Omk  Total    Cost             of Return          (alternative weights~
km     km     km       km     C:AF million       q   /             1      2       3
0502               23       5      6      34          45,7             17             54     59     53
0106               16      19     1       9 53       79.4              23             53     65     52
58     62     24      144
AGBOVtILLE
0114               10       -      -      10           5.1             25             64     72     64
0113                 4      5      -       9           9,3             18             55      9     58
0110                11     21      -      32          40.8             12             43     44     43
0106                 7     10             17          22.3             13             35     37     36
32     36       -      68
DIVO
0308                10     47      -      57          54,2             40             53     6B     51
0309                       21      -      21          27.5             25             52     58     50
0401                12     16             28         34,4              1B             46     49  4   5
0108                -      13      -      13          17.0             1?             44     48     43
0104                 5     13      -      18         20.7              14             41     43     41
0103               26      30      -      56          45.6             23             40     49     39
0201                11     20             31          24,9             16             37     39     34
0202               25      28             53          41,3             18             27     32     24
89    188             2?77
BIANKOUM/A
0101               25      21             46         66.8              14             54     52     51
0106                17      6             23          31,9             13             51     47     48
42     27              69
DC)NANE
0301                3      12             15         30.9              21             57     59     54
0201                13     18             31          46,7             20             52     53     49
0217                       11             11          21,, 4           25             52     59     50
0215                       13             13         25r,3       l   a                51     53     51
0205               10      22             32         63.4              20             47     90      6
0308                        9             22         34.8              14             48     48     45
054    4               8         1301              14            47     47  M
0216                       12             22         36,6              19             46   M        45
0105                        9     --      16          26.8            45 45                        43
z   7 i 62   '- 170



District and               Length of Road         Investment         Internal Rate     Socio-Economic Indices
Road Number          4.5m   6. O   8,0-n  To tal1  Coast             of Return          (o1lterr1-Itivie weights)
km     km     km      km     CFAF million                           1      2      3
GUIGLO
0201                 11     19      8     38          77.4               23             60    64     59
0506                 13      2      -      15         21.9               14             51     50    49
0101                  5     21    -       26          49.9               12             41     41     42
29     12      8      79
MAN
0512                 14     10     13     37          68.2               34                    82    71
0106                 10     1?     13     40          81.2               22             64     73    63
040                   4      4     -       8          11.9               13             51     50    52
0401                  2      3     13      18         51.5               19             55     62     55
0101                 12      3      9     24          43.1               14             60    67     59
0511                  5      8     -       13         20.2               16             44     44     43
0306                  5      8     3       16         29.2               14             50     55     49
0407                 15     21     -      36          61.5               12             46     47     46
0501                 12     13      -     25          37.4               14             34     35    34
0108                 15     24     -      39          72.1               18             34     36    33
94    111     51     256
ABENGWURCW
0207
0207                  3      8     -       11         11.6               35             65     77    66
0112                  3     25     -      28          21.9               34             58     68    54
0106                  -     i8     12     30          55.9               22             65     %6    64
0202                  4      7      5      16         24.3               20             66     77     6?
0204:                13     25     3       41         45.B               23             55     64    54
0203                  7     15     -      22          27. 9              18             44     48     44
0201                  -     40     2      42          38.9               28             49    64     48
0105                 11     15      -      26         23.4               16             40     45    39
0111                 13     20      8     41          73.9               13             42     46     41
54    173     30     257
10 NDOUIKOU
0116                 26      -     18      44         70.7               15             62     66     58    M F-
0122                  -      9      -       9          10.0              1B             48     49     49      m N
0302                  -      9              9         12.2               16             45     45     48    o
0501                 10     10      -     20          10.2               13             37     35    34
36     28     i8      82



District and              Lenahof Road              Investment        Interrnl Rate     So(io-EronatiC indices
Road Number          4.5m   6.m    8 Omni  Total    C:-.st            of Return          (alternative weigh2s
km     km      km      km     CFAF million                          1      2      3
BOAFLE
0405                        17      -       17          20.2               34           68     77     67
0203                 11      5      3       19          23.3              19            63     67     59
0102                  -      4      4       8           14.9              13             1     79
0402                  2     13     15      30           54.6              21            64     71     60
0105                 11     27      -      38           40.2              25            54     63     53
0201                  8      4      -       12          10.8.             13            48     47     47
0110                 10     I0      -      20           26.L              12            45     45     43
0302                  3      3      -6                   4.5              12            48     50     48
0111                  -     14      -       14          12.2               12           39     42     38
45     9?     22      164
k90iAKE
0102                  6     11      -       17          14.5              18            4?     51     48
0707                  6     12             18           16.8              17            45     30     43
0705                  8     17      -      25           15.4              18            47     52     47
0902                 11     20      -      31           20.2               19           40     48     38
0903                 13     11             24           17.9              13            30     36     29
44     71      -      115
DVABAKALA
0101                 22     29      -       51          50.4              16            36     38     35
22     29      -       51
DIMBEOKRO
0508                 22     15      -      37           32.0              18            52     54     48
0302                  3      -      -       3            2.9              20            61     7 21
1-)202                8     20     10      38          115.2              22            43     45     43
0215                  9     11      -      20           32.7              14            39     39     38
0303                  -      7      -       7           14.4              12            41     41     41
0802                 28     26      14      68         104.5              21            4      55      4
0809                 18      8      -       26          38.8               13           34     34     35                d e
0101                 10     10      -       20          25.1               15           36     30     36               0
98     97      24     219                                                                           m >
3JONDIALI                                                                                                               0 r ;
0317                  9     16             25           25.6               18           24     42     41
0301                 17     ti?      -      34          32.9               15           42     41     39               a
26     33       -      59



District and            Len    of Road          Investment         Internal Rate    Socio-Economic Indices
no-ad Nurfbier     4.5m   6.Om   8.O0fl  T otal  C oast             of Return       7[alternative weigh ts7
km     km     km      km    CFAF million                          1      2      3
KORHOGO
0411               11      6     11      28         35.0               20           68     74     64
0)415               6      2      -       8           8.0 12                       34     31     35
06.12               9      3      -      12          4.0                21          29     29     29
0307               14      -             14         14.1                12          33     31     35
0109               12     15      -      27          4.6                23          26     28     26
52     26     11      89
ODIENNE
0206               35      -      -      35         25.2                12          25     26     25
35      -      -      35
D,Y-LOA
0302               17     25      -      42         (2. 8              26           22     17     22
0303               30      -      -      30         18.6                19          19     16     19
0103               12      -      -      12           1                 24          22     17     22
0101               13      -      -      13           4,6               25          17     15     17
0202                6     19      -      25         16,4                19          18     15     18
0201               31     31      -      62         39.2                20          36     38     35
109     75      -     184
0301                                      a -  8    10e?                19          49     55     49
(206                                      9          9.I                18          45     49     45
1201                9      -      -       9          5S8                12           6     47     47
(1204              15      -      -      15          7.0                15          42     47     41
ro4                 8      -      -       8          9.2                16          32     37     32
49      -      -      119
SASSANDRA
0501                -     46      -      46         65,1                40          53     65     418
0101               20     87            107         64,4                40          46     58     51
0301                -     36      -      36         38.2                26          49     60     45
0501                     121      -     121         109,1               39          43     55     38             p
0703                      42      -      42         37.5                32          47     58     43
061 13                    32      -      32         21.3                29          51     63     '16           L
(303                9     11      -      20          8.9                19          39     43     36            o ) '



nistrict and            Lg     of Road            Investment        Internal Rate    Socio-Economic Indices
Road Number        4.Sm   6.Om   90mrn  Total     Coast             of Return         (alternative weights)
km     km     km      km      CFAF mrillion                        1      2      3
0201                -     60      -      60          54.3               25           40     El     36
0601                -     37      -      37         25.6                22           42     52     38
07(68               a     10              18        13.4               18           35     38     32
0612               14     76      -      90          80.1               22           34     41     30
0705               24     16      -      40          28,6               12           33     34     30
0303               21     16      -      37         25n9                14
S     590      -     686
Grand Total    1201   2055    236    3492
5ource: BCEOM G Mission
.l-rcIi, 1977
(DN
0
X \



ANNEX 6
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Study on the Modal Distribution of
Traffic Between Road and Rail
Draft Terms of Reference
A.   Objectives
1.        The consultants shall analyze for both road and rail transport
the present situation in the relevant regions of the Ivory Coast, Upper
Volta and Mali, regarding transport flows, economic transport costs, user
charges, subsidies, tariffs and the quality of service. They shall determine
the economically best distribution of traffic between both modes and recommend
to improve the present modal distribution.
B.   Scope of Work
General
2.        The consultants shall perform all studies, field investigations,
and related work herein described, as required to attain the objectives
set forth in part A above. The consultants shall take into account all
existing relevant information, such as recent studies on different aspects
of transportation, Government and railway statistics and budgets, railway
costing data, etc. The consultants shall limit their field investigations
to areas where important data are not available or appear unreliable. They
shall be solely responsible for their findings and recommendations.
3.        The consultants shall clearly explain in their reports the
methodology and assumptions used in their studies, and their work shall
be presented in sufficient detail for it to be verified without further
information. This shall include the methodology and assumptions of
computer models, should such models be used.
4.        The geographical coverage of the study shall be limited to the
area of influence of the Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan - Niger (RAN),
con  s ing essentially of the Abidjan - Ouagadougou corridor and southern
Mali. in making their recommendationE, the consultants shall, however,
ta>,_ i o account the influence of the Ouagadougou-Tema and Ouagadougo-
Lome roLds and the repercussions of their recommendations on road transport
outside of RAN's area of influence.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Traffic and Transport Costs
5.        The consultants shall estimate present rail and road transport flows
for both passenigers and homogeneous group of coaamodities for:
(a) domestic Ivorian traffic;
(b) Ivory Coast-Upper Volta traffic;
(c) Ivory Coast - Mali traffic; and
(d) Upper Volta traffic using the ports of Tema and Lome.
6.        The consultants shall determine economic road and rail transport
costs as a function of size and value of shipments of transport distances
and/or for important origins/destinations for passengers and for homogeneous
groups of commodities. This determination shall be based on the concept of
long-term marginal costs, including at least the following cost components:
(a) operating costs;
(b) costs of transshipments and on carriage; in particular
for rail transport;
(c)C cosiJ of maintaining, renewing and, if needed, extending
transport infrastructure excluding, however, projects
presently in an advanced stage of execution; and
(d) quantifiable costs relating to the quality of service,
stemming in particular from differences between modes
in speed and reliability of transport, the incidence
of pilferage and breakage, and the like, taking into
account service improvements presently planned by RAN.
Modal Distribution of Traffic
7.        Based on the analyses under paragraph 6 above, the consultants
shall determine the economically best modal distribution of the traffic
volumes deZ.rmined under paragraph 5above.   In doing so they shall consider
the total vhlume of Mali traffic going through Abidjan as being determined
by exogenous factors, and they shall therefore not be obliged to analyse
the question of a better distribution of Mali traffic between Dakar and
Abidjan. The best modal allocation shall be determined for passengers and
homogenous groups of commodities, and for an appropriate range of transport
distances and/or for important origins/destinations, and as a function of the
size and value of shipments.
8.        The consultants may have to determine the best modal allocation
in an iterative process since any significant difference between the actual



ANNEX 6
Page 3
and the best modal distribution would necessitate an evaluation of the carry-
ing capacity of one or the other mode. This appl, es in pazticular to railway
infrastructure capacity.   The econornic oo     f ;- of  .-t-- - ld J a,dti nional capacity,
if needed to carry the allocaW6 L' -:   i   '        1 ' the ;.c--tomic transport
cost and thus may alter the origi-illy d6..        7 -3i modal distribution.
The economic cost of additional capacity m--,' be     -i(>ed equal to the
opportunity cost of the corresponding invesLme i-1
9.         The consultants shall identify, ar.alyze and describe other factors
which, in addition to economic transporG c-rj:7s, _Influence the actual modal
distribution of traffic between rail and road. Thefy shall in particular
analyze the following factors:
(i)  the degree of recovery of 3co''A..          x:c5-  users,
taking into account,
(a) road user chargcs;
(b)  indirect subsidizat-I.n- of heavy vehicles created
by the existing system of road    sL -?o'i
(c). railway subsidies ;:HnLI
(d)  railway tariffs; and
(e)  road transport   :ar.if,        V-t-
owned truiCking n
(ii)  differences between sconrci.`  v          . .; co.ts and
road transport tariffs actually r     *'ghy f-jr-lvate trucking
and forwarding compznIe-. h:4.; -r       : .: y- be due inter
alia to overcap.zB:y, *:J.          -       'e. .  i.r-efficient
vehicle fleet oi. a         or        ; ..-        2'1    vis-a-vis
the railway, wihich are         ,   ,-  '  ii the road transport
industry; and
(iii)  non-quantifiable differ-,-e-      -h-:va                of
each mode, taking into account both '3 a ,iual quality
of service, and the shippers' percep-"''. - -: ';.ia-iis quality.
10.        The cotasultants s.hal1l7o 1-e D           .     b.es..;  eat modal distribu-
tion, as determined by them, with the aci 7u    v.'r.r-n of traffic. They
shall estimate the economic costs of di.       . 'Lr:.r Te rod-.al allocation of
traffic.  This shall be doaa -1rbally   ii -      -    " . r : important origins/
destinations.
11.        The consultants shall try to etpl--JI-n  I-rvici   between the best
and the actual modal distribution, taking :1.nc:o         the analyses made under



ANNEX 6
Page 4
paragraph 9 above. They shall endeavor to quantify the influence of indivi-
dual factors on the distortion of the modal distribution, with particular
emphasis on the effects of direct and indirect subsidization of the railway
and the trucking industry respectively.
Recommendations
12.       The consultants shallw recommend specific actions to improve the
modal distribution of traffic. The consultants' recommendations shall cover
all areas analyzed in their studies and they shall endeavor to quantify the
benefits expected from implementation of each action.
13.       Particular attention shall be given to determine adequate levels
of cost recovery from transport users and to recommend specific actions to
achieve these levels, taking into account (a) the potential economic cost
of frustrating trcaffic through increasing road user charges and decreasing
railway net subsidies, if frustration of traffic can reasonably be expected;
and (b) the Government's budgetary constraints. The consultants shall
endeavor to determine the optimum levels of road and rail user charges by
taking into account Government budgetary constraints, the economic cost, if
any, of frustrating or not generating traffic, and the economic cost of modal
distortions in traffic allocation.
C.   Reports and Timing
14.       The consultants shall submit:
(i)  a Draft Final Report within s'.x months of t'e starting
date, summarizing all work performed and describing the
consultants' findings and recommendations; and
(ii) a Final Report within six weeks of the receipt of all
comments in the Draft, incorporating all appropriate
revisions.
15.       All reports shall include a summary of the consultants' findings
and recommendations.  The Draft Final Reort shall be submited in --------
copies in French and ----- in english.   The Final Report shall be submitted
in ---- copies in French and       copies in English.
D.   Information Provided by the Governments
16.       The Governments of the Ivory Coast,and Upper Volta, represented by
their ministries in charge of transportation, will:
(i) provide the consultants with a.1 available information,
including information on RAN and the ports of Abidjan
and San Pedro, deemed useful by the consultants; and



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(ii) assist the consultants in their respective countries in
obtaining necessary information from the private sector.
The Government of the Ivory Coast will, additionally, assist the consultants
in obtaining necessary information from Governments and Government agencies
of third countries.



IVORY COAST
FEEDER ROAD AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Or9ganization ofthe Ministry of Publi.cWoIks,Transport ,Construction and Urban;Sm
MINISTERF-        M      INISTER O P
OFIETIRT      AYA LC;UCII           DOCUMENTATION~
ND S,ERVICES       -i         - .         CENTER
DIRECTOL                                           CENTRAL  RAL  C TRAECENTRAL  ENTRAL     ETRAL      CENTRAL     CENTRAL       CENTRAL     DIRECT RATE
DIRECTORIATE: OF  CENTRAL  DIETRTS      CETA        CNRL         DICOAE      DRCOAE D      IIRECTORIATE  DIRIECTORATE  DIRECTORATE  DIRECTORAT  DIREC1TORATE  DIRECTORATE  FOR
TRT E                              SUB-DIRECTORATE 1SUBDIRECTORATE  DIRETORE O DIRECETORATE
OFA                                               OFF PBLROGRASDIECTRANDO  OE ROASFOA        O FRIDI
NEOGRA^.1VIP<.                     AND INVESTMENT |  OF OA MAINTENUBO:PE MAINTENANCE
IFEEDER ROAD
ANoSI SEERA
DE-P.11;r lARTM; EN1:T.;. SUB.......... IF CTOAT                   :IRECT.OtAT O..        ... DIRECTORATE-
OFlZv.         PLNNN                              DS              -IRCORT



IBRD 12899R
*                                        JULY  1977
IVORY  COAST  ____________ Feeder roads program for1978/79  |  J   1977
AM  A  L  I     a                     Project roadsunderbetterment program, 1978/81  A'  Internationalairport
F E OP J T             $   <,       xxxxxxxxxx &eirnr-rnt pro,.rjm fin joced by o---rnrmenT  Other airports
PTRlVIOUSPROJECT         . -  n International boundaries
FEEERRO DSPRJET                                                    REIOStuor PRJC                Offieoi of rO's-A djisin
- 0  Bomokro   -                                    e     .  > -BImprovement or Pavement strengthening
To  5ama-koBridgeconstructlon
.'N>~*J    a                            a          Pavedroads
G j's~Iravelroads                                                                   ?  29O  40  6~  O  1-0
S(                       Earth roads                  KI LOMETERS
o /; a -   S   ,,              \   f >-   -    XPalved roods tinder construction
To Ga. ws
Ouongolodougo                                        B tii -
j  UPPEt,  VOLTA       --    ~    -s.Ai>
ODIENNE --'                                                                                        )
F R K SSDOUGOU                                                               Ferk6i         -""r -
BOUNDI
*-'$j ^-            ;                 /      -- ' >-oua                                              1
fo                                      +q            \g 9 0  fBouos  k     .*-:/*.~
*  \  1NATIONAL PARK
O F LNe KOMOE
G U i N E A            \                  -                              Tfr,
TUINGA  ?                                             ,-Dionro
oS, +nN 0N                                                                                 4
N                                                                            a-R> e b  FeE b  /---) g,-ro-  yt
Nr                             DaboruoGu
BINOM    StBjI                   'kor>g                 Z I(ue o   *                   Tal        ii /
9'G S-, omsono              'w ~t S;4  01              ,8W KAIL       /vdP
L>" I                     SBUL E~ R- I                                               --4  Gyo\~;Lbulntn l
'OUAKE        4' 1
*oo                      N            r                                        f 5A   Ji
0j (                                               -      -  .*.*,            / *~         IolButgFabc
-.eIfl..                                         Tie /                          O5i1               i rn-ao  rrdBson r---
-J-
Sako'os'4i,  4o--  M'Bohjokro~              mmsr
' ~ DANANE g      N                                                    guyokro                J1rJ
ZoukoubwIITi PvSAL                              i            B on .      a  Kogh   * Agntb,Iekrous
"aZohi               0uFP                                 c..
Bango.oDA?-OA                                  4   ~      Ymusur              ssKso'
Sibroyae                               C \.  Pranous         *ai-o~-                  '
Du6koueo                                                             AB tuGrtL
/i.~~uyO  'G
*  N                         is      ~
Pih.              OG g0501,                      I I a  . Koses a*Bngae ,/l~'
a    $d',
LI   RI                          o                                          sit  7saae
Komeorooo/ir
BadayouoaoadGs                                                                           hown 1  f/ soAkpdozin
DIVOdlaafsoKodoafousaou
I._uy____________Br.__________________



