CIRCULATING UUwY
Document of         TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE Copy                    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1740a-SYI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 22, 1976
This doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withouit World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Syrian Pound (LS)
LS 1        =     US$0.27
US$1        =     LS 3.675
ABBREVIATIONS
GOTPC                  General Organisation for Trade and
Processing of Cereals
MAAR                   Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform
NFRF                   National Feed Revolving Fund
ACB                    Agricultural Cooperative Bank
COF                    General Organisation for Feed
NFPC                   National Feed Policy Committee
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS TO
THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Bank Loan of $5 million equivalent and a Third Window loan of $12.5 million
equivalent to the Syrian Arab Republic to help finarce a livestock develop-
ment project. The Bank loan would have a term of 2(0 years including 5 years
of grace, with interest at 8.85 percent per annum; the Third Window Loan would
be on standard Third Window terms of 25 years, including 7 years grace, with
interest at 4.85 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects for
Syria" (No. 806-SYR, October 31, 1975) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 12, 1975. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Since attaining independence in 1946, Syria has had several changes
in regime which resulted in a shift of power from groups of landowners, traders,
and industrialists to a rising class of officers, technicians, and civil
servants, as well as a shift of the economy from an essential laissez-faire
system to a largely publicly-owned and regulated one. The Baath Socialist
Party, the ruling party since 1963, provided substantial continuity of emphasis
on economic and social development policies which have, by and large, prevailed
in spite of internal Government changes and tensions within the Middle East.
During the 1960s an agrarian reform was completed, uith redistribution of land
to a large number of formerly landless peasants. In November 1970 General
Assad became President of the Republic, and his regime has since been charac-
terized by a balance of firmness and conciliation in domestic policies,
economic pragmatism, a concerted search for a better defined role for the
private sector in a centrally regulated economy, as well as diversification of
foreign economic relations. These aims have been pursued gradually and, in
spite of continued political uncertainty in the Middle East, substantial re-
orientation of economic policies and diversification of production have been
achieved.
4.        Developments in the second half of the 1960s had far-reaching effects
on economic performance as private initiative and investment declined while
public sector investment gained momentum only slowly. However, economic per-
formance since 1970 has improved significantly, partly as a result of favor-
able weather conditions which led to a substantial increase in agricultural
production, and partly because the newly-introduced economic policy measures
which aimed at stimulating the private sector began to take effect. The ris-
ing trend in output, however, was interrupted by the severe drought in 1973
and the aftermath of the October war. Nevertheless, by 1974 the Syrian econ-
omy had almost completely recovered both from the dislocation caused by the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



war and from the relative stagnation of the agricultural sector brought about
by the drought. As a result, GDP in 1974 increased by almost L3 percent in
real terms compared to just over 2 percent in the previous year. Overall,
real per capita income increased by over 5 percent per year between 1970
and 1974. Economic growth in 1975 is believed to have been close to that
achieved in 1974, and prospects for continued growth in 1976 are good.
5.         Because of the size and importance of the agricuiltural sector, the
Syrian economy remains highly vulnerable to fluctuations in agricultural out-
put brought about by variations in the amount and timing of rainfall.      How-
ever, the share of industry in GDP has grown substantially in recent vears
and industry is emerging as a leading sector in the economy. National ac-
counts estimates for 1974 indicate that both agriculture and industry ac-
counted for about 22 percent of GDP in constant 1963 prices, but because of
the relative increases in industrial prices, value added in industry at cur-
rent prices amounted to 30 percent of GDP while that for agriculture reached
22 percent. With the expected growth in extractive industries, the share of
the industrial sector relative to that of agriculture is expected to rise
further in the near future.
6.         Total investment continues to increase both in absolute and relative
terms. Gross fixed investment increased from about LS 1.2 billion (about 16.7
percent of GDP) in 1971 to about LS 3.0 billion in 1974 (about 22.9 percent
of GD?), with the public sector accounting for about two-thirds of the total.
Though its share in total investment has remained about constant, private
investment in absolute terms increased threefold between 1970 and 1974. By
far the larger part of investment was in industry and construction. At the
same time, domestic savings concinued to grow and on average financed some
70 percent of total investment with net imports accounting for the remaining
30 percent. However, with the growth of current transfers from abroad,
national savings, which averaged about 29 percent of GN? over the past two
years, have substantially exceeded current domestic investment in recent
years. In this situation interest rates, which are controlled and held at
low levels, (between 2.5 and 9 percent) have played only a limited role in
resource mobilisation. The role of interest rates is also limited in resource
allocation, which is achieved mainly through central planning decisions.
7.         Recently, there have been significant changes in absolute and rela-
tive prices. The GDP deflator indicates a 37 percent increase in prices in
1974 compared to under 6 percent average growth per year during 1970-1973.
Indices of wholesale and retail prices, though less reliable, confirm the
rapidly emerging inflationary pressures in the economy as increased ag-
gregate demand continues to generate pressures on domestic resources. In
spite of an improved external balance, import liberalization policies have
so far not been used effectively to increase the total supply of resources.
Growing inflationary pressures may pose serious problems for thie Syrian
economy in future and, if unchecked, may reflect adversely on future growth
prospects of the economy. A favorable balance of payments position and a
relatively high level of foreign exchange reserves would warrant a further
liberalization of import regulations to increase the supply of goods and
services in an attempt to dampen inflationary pressure in the economy.



- 3 -
8.        Continued overall deficits have been the main characteristic of
the Syrian Government budget in recent years. DomeEtic revenues have been
slightly higher than current expenditures, so that a large part of development
expenditures has been financed through external project loans or through bor-
rowing from the banking system. Since 1973, however, the situation has sub-
stantially changed as grants and aid from other Arab countries increased
to such a level that Government recourse to the banking system to finance
the overall deficits was unnecessary.    With an even, higher level of public
expenditures, the overall budgetary deficit accelerated sharply in 1974 and
1975, but was partly covered by grants from friendly countries.
9.        The substantial increase in domestic reverues in 1973 and 1974,
mainly as a result of the rapid growth of oil revenues, continued in 1975.
To the extent that the past increase in income was rot a result of higher
taxes, their use in financing an even higher level cf public expenditure on
domestic goods and services results in a net injection of extra liquidity in
the economy which might lead to an intensification cf the inflationary impact
of the budget. This is even more so since the share of tax and other non-oil
revenues in total revenues has been declining.
10.       Government development expenditures were carried out in accordance
with the Third Five-Year Plan (1971-75). During the first three years of the
Plan, there were considerable shortfalls in total planned expenditures, mainly
due to weaknesses in project preparation and follow up procedures, as well as
severe shortages of foreign exchange. A heightened concern with development
issues, new procedures and reporting systems, as well as a considerable easing
of the foreign exchange situation, have however led to a considerably higher
public sector investment, particularly for 1974, with an even stronger perform-
ance in 1975. These improvements came too late though to increase the Plan's
implementation rate which was around 60 percent.
11.       Syria's balance of payments, which had been in substantial deficit
since 1968, improved in 1971 when the deficit was reduced sharply, and has
registered surpluses since then.   The improvement initially reflected in-
creased oil transit dues, current transfers from abroad, and private capital
inflow.  In the last three years, large transfers from Arab countries have
offset the widening trade deficit and resulted in overall payment surpluses of
LS 1.2 billion in 1973 and an estimated LS 641 million in 1974. As a result,
net foreign reserves increased to about $640 million at the end of 1975, the
equivalent of about 5 months of 1974 merchandise imports.    The indications
are however that since then reserves have declined, as a result of smaller
inflow of grants, of the loss of revenue due to interruption of transit of
oil through the pipeline from Iraq, and of the impact of civil war in Lebanon.
12.       Work on the Fourth Development Plan 1976-80 has been nearly com-
pleted. Preliminary indications are that the strategy of the forthcoming Plan
may not differ substantially from that of the previous Plan, with heavy con-
centration of public sector investment on the development of agriculture, in-
cluding irrigation, as well as extractive industries, particularly oil and
phosphates. The investment rate is to be stepped up considerably, although
skilled manpower and domestic resources may be increasingly-felt constraints



- 4 -
on the growth of investment, particularly in the public sector. Taking these
factors into account, future prospects for the Syrian economy are favorable
and would be greatly enhanced if peace is restored to the area. The pragmatic
outlook of the present Government and the recent changes in the direction of
economic policies are likely to make it possible for the private sector to
contribute effectively to the future development and diversification of the
Syrian economy. Syria's oil output in 1975 was about 10 million tons worth
about $700 million, which makes it eligible for membership in OPEC. Oil ex-
ports in 1975 provided foreign exchange for about one-half of imports and
export prospects are quite favorable. Syria has also substantial though low
quality phosphate reserves and while export prospects also look favorable,
revenues will depend on the fluctuation of the price level on the world
markets. Assuming that the Syrian authorities can keep current inflationary
pressures under control, real growth could exceed 9 percent per year between
1975 and 1980, with an assumed acceleration of the growth of investment and
exports by comparison with 1970-74 results. This would create substantial
import and external borrowing requirements.
13.       The country will, therefore, continue to need to borrow abroad to
finance development projects, particularly in the public sector. Excluding
external obligations contracted for military purposes, Syria's external public
debt amounted to $702 million by the end of 1974, and debt service payments on
external public debt (excluding military) were estimated at about $52 million,
equivalent to 5 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services at 1974
level. Although investment and growth targets of the Five-Year Plan (1976-
80) are uncertain, preliminary Bank projections estimate that on average,
the resource gap may be about $445 million per year during 1976-80 with an
implied gross borrowing requirement of some $340 million per year over this
period. Beyond 1980, however, capital requirements may be substantially
larger as grant inflows may be reduced. Nevertheless, the debt service
ratio is likely to be under 15 percent over the next decade and more.
As of the end of 1974, the Bank Group's share in Syria's external public debt
(excluding military) was estimated at 4 percent on a disbursement basis. The
share of the Bank Group in debt service was nil in 1974. By 1980, the Bank
Group's share in debt outstanding and in debt service are expected to rise
to about 17 percent and 11 percent respectively. Syria is considered credit-
worthy for additional borrowing on Bank terms.    In view of recent intensifi-
cation of its development efforts (paragraph 10) and the consequent need to
mobilize substantial additional external resources, some local cost financing
by external lenders is justified for high priority projects. The need for
such financing has been heightened by the recent decrease in budgetary grant
receipts which cannot be offset in the short-term by an increase in tax and
non-tax revenues.
14.       Syria is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window terms
on the basis of the following criteria:



-5-
(1)  1972 Per capita income:   $320
(2)  Performance:  With the adoption of pragmatic and flexible
economic policies by the Government and institutional im-
provements in development planning, Syria has achieved high
rates of economic growth in recent years, aad overall economic
performance has improved substantially.
(3)  Ability to Repay:   Syria's substantial economic resources and
good medium-term development prospects make the country credit-
worthy for continued IBRD lending.
(4)  Access to Alternative Sources of Capital:   iklthough Syria has
had access to substantial amounts of transfers from Arab coun-
tries in the wake of the 1973 war, mainly for military purposes
and reconstruction, capital assistance for economic development
projects has been limited, partly as a resuLt of limitations
in the availability of well prepared investment projects.
Bank assistance is designed to act as an important catalyst
both in project preparation work and in the mobilization of
complementary capital assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IT; SYRIA
15.       Syria has to date received   four IDA credits totalling US$47.3
million and six loans totalling US$231.6 million, both net of cancellations.
Although Syria is a member of the Corporation, IFC haS made no investments.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank loans as of
May 31, 1976 together with notes on the execution of projects.
16.       Project implementation has generally suffered substantial delays
due largely to circumstances beyond Syria's control. The 1973 hostilities
brought works to a standstill and diverted the country's resources first to
military, then to reconstruction tasks although recovery was quite rapid
(paragraph 4). Continued unsettled conditions in the region compounded the
high rate of world inflation and, combined with local bottlenecks in the
administrative system and the construction industry, and the need for expen-
sive expatriate skilled labor, generated considerable cost overruns. Three
projects were most severely affected, the First Water Supply Project (Credit
401-SYR), the Balikh Irrigation Project (Credit 469-S1R and Loan 975-SYR), and
the first Mehardeh Power Project (Loan 986-SYR). As a result, the composition
of the Water Supply and the Power Projects had to be revised and additional
financing secured. In the case of the Balikh project, another cause of delays
was the difficulty to agree on bidding documents and procedures acceptable to
the Syrian authorities and the Bank; however, following discussions with the
Syrian Government, this question has now been resolvec! satisfactorily.



17.       Following the priorities assigned to investment under the Third De-
velopment Plan, past Bank Group lending concentrated on infrastructure (about
two-thirds) and irrigation (one-third). Lending to infrastructure, with power
accounting for about 50 percent of overall lending, highways about 10 percent
and water supply 7 percent, aimed at fostering well designed sector policies
and strengthening various public institutions in charge. The objective of
improving irrigation and drainage in the Euphrates Basin is to increase agri-
cultural production and exports while reducing food imports, and the dependency
on weather fluctuations. Although the Fourth Development Plan has not yet
been published, there are strong indications that it will follow the same
strategy as the Third Plan. A number of substantial programs in water sup-
ply, electricity, telecommunications, and highways are planned in 1976-1980,
to bring these sectors more in line with current needs, while Syria will step
up its effort to become self sufficient in and even an exporter of food
resources.
18.       The Bank envisages further support to the Government's strategy of
improving the infrastructure. Preparation of the Third Highway project is
underway and studies for a sewerage project which are financed from proceeds
of the first water supply project will commence shortly. Continued support is
also envisaged to the Government's strategy of developing productive capacity
in the agricultural sector. While in the past, lending for agriculture has
been for irrigation, more emphasis will now be given to projects increasing
the productivity of Syria's 2.8 million ha of rainfed land. To assist the
Government in improving the living standards of the rural population, the Bank
has also incorporated in its lending program and is now helping to prepare a
project for rural electrification.
19.       Together with continued support of infrastructure and agriculture,
a degree of diversification is contemplated for future lending. In view of
Syria's drive to develop manufacturing industries, which will be accelerated
in the Fourth Development Plan, the Bank envisages assisting the development
of Syrian industry possibly through a DFC project. Projects in education and
tourism are also planned.
20.       Through the lending activities described above, the Bank proposes
to put more emphasis in Syria on project preparation and implementation.
While in the short-term this may lead to increased utilization of expatriate
consultants, the longer term objective is to build up local expertise.
PART III - SHEEP PRODUCTION IN SYRIA
21.       Sheep husbandry is the most important component of Livestock pro-
duction in Syria, accounting for more than 65 percent of all meat produced,
and about 50 percent of the total output of milk and milk products. The po-
pulation of adult sheep is about 6.4 million (1967-73 average). There are
three characteristic forms of sheep production: (a) range-based sheep raising,
which is the major source of income for some 35,000 nomadic bedouin families,
amongst the poorest people in Syria, and which is concentrated in the low



rainfall areas of central and eastern Syria, (b) farTr-based sheep production,
carried out by most of the country's half million farm families, to supplement
cash income and for family consumption and (c) intensive lamb fattening and
finishing of cull ewes in and near towns.
22.       Since on average about two-thirds of their feed intake comes from
natural grazing land, sheep are subject to large fluctuations in feed avail-
ability due to rainfall variability. This in turn leads to considerable
variations in fertility levels, weaning rates, mortality, population and pro-
ductive output. During drought years, sheep raisers are forced to sell breed-
ing stock while in years of good rainfall offtake rates are reduced in order
to rebuild flocks. As a result, rainfall fluctuations impose considerable
losses on the Syrian economy, and the sheep population and meat and milk
supply and prices fluctuate considerably.
23.       While most sheep are used for domestic consumption, Syria has bene-
fitted from a substantial but fluctuating import and export trade in meat and
live animals. Typically, yearling rams are imported from Turkey for fattening;
and exports, both of meat and live animals are directed towards Lebanon and
Jordan. Occasionally imports from Turkey are interrupted and, more frequently,
in years of poor rainfall, exports are restricted or banned by the Syrian
Government in order to keep down domestic meat prices. However, there is
substantial illegal trade. Over 1967-73 recorded imports of sheep and goats
averaged 250,000 head, valuied at $3.2 million, and recorded exports averaged
389,000 head, valued at $11.2 million. However, over the same period the trade
surplus in live animals declined and an average annual trade deficit in fresh
and frozen meat of 82,000 tons was recorded.
24.       The marketing and prices of sheep and sheep products within Syria
are free, except for supplies to Damascus, which are mainly channelled through
the General Supply Institution at fixed prices. Bedouin sheep are marketed
mainly through merchants or small shopkeepers, while villagers usually sell
their animals at regional markets or, on occasion, to merchants. Typically,
fattened animals are sold to traders in regional marlkets, or to the General
Supply Institution, or are exported. Sheep milk is rmarketed in the cities
mostly in the form of cheese. Wool is marketed through merchants who control
both domestic and export trade.
25.       The main livestock feed resources in Syria are rangeland, crop re-
sidues, fallow grazing, straw and concentrates. In general range grazing
provides about 50 percent of the feed consumed by alL livestock; crop resi-
dues, straw and fallow about 32 percent, and concentrates (barley, cottonseed
cake, wheat bran, sugarbeet pulp, beet molasses) about 16 percent. Dependence
on range grazing is greatest in the case of bedouin ,heep and extensively
managed goats (approximately 70 percent of total intake from range) followed
by farm sheep and local cattle (48 percent), draught animals (20 percent) and
high producing dairy cows and milking goats (O percent). On average, sheep
receive from 25 percent (in the case of bedouin sheep) to 40 percent (for farm
sheep) of their total feed intake from crop residues, fallow and straw, and
from 3 percent (bedouin sheep) to 13 percent (farm sleep) from concentrates.



26.       Concentrate prices are affected by Government intervention.   The
prices paid by livestock producers for barley, wheat bran, cottonseed cake and
sugarbeet pulp reflect the growers' prices for these commodities fixed by the
Government. Barley is purchased from merchants acting as intermediaries for
the General Organization for Trade and Processing of Cereals (GOTPC) (See
paragraph 30). Other concentrates are obtained directly from processing
plants, which are Government-owned.
27.       Syria is at present a net exporter of concentrates, particularly of
barley and cottonseed cake. In addition, there is substantial potential for
increased production of concentrates, through the expansion of irrigation,
and through bringing unused rainfed land into production. The country there-
fore possesses a resource base for the development of livestock. A livestock
development plan drafted in 1973 but not officially adopted, calls for an
increase of sheep meat and milk production of 2.5 and 4 times respectively
by 1980. Production increases would be achieved mainly by increased use of
concentrates.
28.       Development of sheep production is the responsibility of the Minis-
try of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), through its Departments of
Animal Production and Animal Health and through several parastatal organisa-
tions which are directly responsible to the Minister. The Animal Production
Department provides extension services through the provincial offices of the
Ministry. The Animal Health Department operates the veterinary field clinics,
which administer about 6 million vaccinations and treat some 5 million cases of
disease a year. However, the work of the Department is seriously hampered by a
shortage of qualified staff and of funds, particularly to purchase or manufac-
ture pharmaceuticals, which at present are provided free to livestock owners.
29.       In 1965 a National Feed Revolving Fund (NFRF) was established with
the proceeds from the sale of feed supplied by the World Food Program. The
fund is administered by the Sheep and Range Section of the Animal Produc-
tion Department and held in the Agricultural Co-operative Bank (ACB) . The
fund provides short-term credit to sheep producers who are organized in co-
operatives for feed purchases and to the co-operatives for the construction
of feed stores. Assistance in forming and running co-operatives is provided
by the Sheep and Range Section. Two kinds of co-operatives are formed.
Through sheep fattening co-operatives, fatteners receive credit from NFRF to
buy feed for a 3-month fattening cycle for lambs, yearlings and culled ewes,
obtained domestically or imported from Turkey. Sheep and range co-operatives
are mainly composed of bedouin flock owners who keep their flocks in the range
area, but move them to cropped areas in the autumn for stubble grazing; how-
ever, some are comprised of farm based sheep farmers, who hold their flocks
in cultivated areas, but move them to the range for spring grazing. Members
of sheep and range co-operatives have access to NFRF credit for purchase of
annual supplementary feeds for breeding stock. At present there are 37 fat-
tening co-operatives and 14 sheep and range co-operatives. Legislation of
1970 and 1973 provides for improved management of range pastures, by giving
co-operatives in these areas sole control of a defined zone and setting limits



on the number of animals per family for which credit for feed purchase can be
obtained from NFRF.   NFRF has so far enjoyed an excellent repayment record on
the credit it provides, close to 100 percent.
30.       The General Organisation for Feed (GOF), established in February
1974, has broad responsibilities in the feed sector, including the supervi-
sion of feed processing and establishment of feed mills, establishment of
feed storage warehouses, supervision of the marketing of all feed commodities
both inside and outside the country, supervision of domestic feed distribu-
tion and the purchase of feed from producers through advance contracts.    The
General Organisation for Trade and Processing of Ce-eals (GOTPC) purchases
wheat and barley at fixed prices from producers, thcough its collection
points, and operates flour mills. The GOTPC is also the source of wheat
bran used as animal feed (paragraph 26).
31.       The National Feed Policy Committee (NFPC) discusses, approves and
submits general feed policy guidelines to the Minister of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform for issue as ministerial decisions. The Committee also dis-
cusses and makes recommendations on feed prices to the Council of Ministers
for Economic Affairs. The Committee is composed of the heads or their repre-
sentatives of all Government departments and parastatal organizations con-
cerned with the production, marketing and use of fead and is chaired by the
Minister for Agriculture and Agrarian Reform or his deputy (see paragraph 34).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       In early 1974, the FAC/IBRD Co-operative ?rogranme reviewed the
prospects for development of livestock in Syria, and examined several pos-
sible projects envisaged by the Government. The proposed project was iden-
tified as a result of this review, and was prepared by a second Co-operative
Programme mission in September 1974. The project was appraised in May 1975.
At negotiations in Washington in May 1976, the Syrian Government delegation
was led by Dr. Joumah, Deputy Minister of Agriculture. An appraisal report,
No. 1209-SY dated 16 June, 1976, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A loan and project summary is given in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
33.       The project is aimed at increasing and stabilizing the production
of and income from the sheep subsector throughout Syria, through the strength-
ening of national feed policy, the increased use of supplementary feed, and
the reinforcement of animal health services. The project consists of:
(a) strengthening the organizational framework, including NFPC,
GOF, NFRF and ACB to be responsible for defining and imple-
menting feed policies aiming at optimizing on a national
basis, the use of available feed materials and feed
storage facilities;



- 10 -
(b) provision of financing for the annual purchase of feed
needs of sheep cooperatives, thus permitting the creation
of 12 new sheep and range co-operatives and 12 new sheep
fattening co-operatives;
(c) reinforcement of the animal health services of the MAAR
through provision of vehicles, equipment, pharmaceuticals
and technical assistance, and construction of sheep dips;
(d) execution of a study of manpower requirements and training
needs in the animal health field;
(e) execution of a study of feed prices.
Project implementation would be completed by September 30, 1981. The proj-
ect would complement the national Emergency Feed Reserve, to be established,
operated and financed by the Government. Establishment of the Emergency
Reserve would make it possible to provide subsistence rations, consisting
mostly of feed grains to sheep producers in drought years in order to reduce
losses from the national sheep flock (see paragraphs 46-50 below).
Detailed Features and Project Execution
34.       Organization.   Under the project, a secretariat for the National
Feed Policy Committee (paragraph 31) would be created in the Office of the
Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. The functions of the secre-
tariat would be to provide advice to the National Feed Policy Committee
on annual feed allocations, pricing, exports and imports and the size of
emergency feed stocks, taking into account projected production, consumption
and storage availability. The secretariat would be headed by an Executive
Secretary with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreements). Advisers in price policy, feed distri-
bution and cost accounting would be provided for the secretariat under the
project (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreements). Appointment of the
Executive Secretary and of the advisers would be conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed loan.
35.       Development of NFRF.   Additional sheep co-operatives, whose members
qualify for credit from the NFRF, would be created. Establishment of the
co-operatives would be the responsibility of the Sheep and Range Section of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) which has successfully
implemented an impressive programme of establishment of livestock co-operatives
over the last 10 years. The Sheep and Range Section of MAAR would provide
technical support to the co-operatives. Under the project, about 12 sheep and
range co-operatives and about 12 fattening cooperatives (paragraph 29) would be
established. As a result of this programme, the number of bedouin flockowners
who are members of sheep and range cooperatives would be increased from the
present level of 11,400 to 24,000 by 1980, comprising about two-thirds of the
bedouin flockowners, who would control about 1.6 million sheep, about 40 percent
of the range sheep population.



- 11 -
36.       The volume of credit provided by the NFRF for purchase of concen-
trates by the livestock co-operatives for annual feed needs and for fattening
would be increased sharply under the project. NFRF"s gross disbursements for
feed purchases would increase to $24.8 million by 1980 (in 1975 prices) com-
pared to a level of $0.8 million in 1974. The addil:ional credit provided
by NFRF by 1980 would help finance the purchase of about 240,000 tons of con-
centrates annually.
37.       Credit provided by NFRF for feed purchase would normally carry an
interest charge of 7.5 percent per annum. However It was agreed that a
preferential rate of 5.5 percent per annum would be applied to farmers
whose annual household income, as assessed by NFRF according to criteria
acceptable to the Bank, is less than LS 3,500 at 1916 prices, that is, less
than about 30 percent of the average national family income (Schedule 5 to the
draft Loan Agreements). These interest rates would be towards the higher end
of rates prevailing in Syria (paragraph 6). The 7.5 percent rate is the
maximum permitted in the agricultural sector and is so far applicable only to
loans larger than LS 50,000. A survey of the pre-project income situation
would be carried out before December 31, 1976, in o:-der to develop criteria to
be used by NFRF in determining which members of the co-operatives are eligible
for obtaining feed loans at the preferential intere,t rate of 5.5 percent per
annum. It would include an analysis of the availability of credit for the
purchase of feed from existing sources, as well as -he terms and conditions of
such credit. Until these criteria have been established, members of sheep and
range co-operatives will be considered eligible for the 5.5% interest rates if
they hold less than 60 ewes, and members of sheep fattening cooperatives if
they fatten less than 255 sheep per year. In addition, a quarterly monitoring
of income levels and of the availability and cost oE credit would provide
information about the debt service burden and debt service payment capacity of
members of the cooperatives. The Government and th,s Bank have agreed to
undertake jointly not later than July 30, 1978 a reiiew of the adequacy of
interest rates on credit used for the purchase of feed, including the need for
a preferential interest rate for poor farmers, and the need for a revision of
the income level criterion for the preferential interest rate.
38.       In addition to $11.3 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan,
the Government would provide NFRF with the balance of financial resources
required to achieve the planned increase in feed loans, through budgetary
allocations (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreements). NFRF's income
from interest would accrue to its own resources (Schedule 5 to the draft Loan
Agreements). The Sheep and Range Section of MAAR wDuld be reinforced to carry
out its expanded technical responsibilities for NFRF under the project, and
its accounting capability would also be strengthened (Section 3.08 of the
draft Loan Agreements).
39.       Monitoring.   Under the project, establishment of sheep and range
co-operatives should lead to improvements in the condition of range vegetation,
as a result of control of animal numbers and movements (paragraph 29 above),
the use of annual supplementary feed, and the provision of emergency feed.
MAAR would implement by June 30, 1977, a system acceptable to the Bank which



- 12 -
would effectively monitor vegetative changes in the range areas used by sheep
and range co-operatives (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreements). In addi-
tion, MAAR would begin, before December 31, 1977, field studies to measure
the effect of feeding purchased concentrates on range sheep production (Sec-
tion 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreements).
40.       Animal Health.  Under the project, MAAR's Animal Health Department
would be strengthened. Equipment would be procured for the Central Veterinary
Laboratory, to allow the production of vaccines to increase from the present
level of 6 million doses to 20-25 million doses per year. A laboratory equip-
ment adviser to be recruited under the project would assist in the selection,
installation and maintenance of equipment (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan
Agreements). His appointment would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Loan. Drugs for treatment of internal and external parasites, equipment, and
vehicles would also be provided for 56 mobile veterinary field service teams,
which would provide animal health services to producers. Seven sheep dipping
centres would be constructed with a total capacity of 3 million sheep twice a
year. Vaccines and drugs, now provided free, would be provided to benefi-
ciaries at 50 percent of cost in the fourth year of the project, and 100 per-
cent from the fifth year on; revenues from vaccine and drug sales would be
used exclusively to finance the production of vaccines and the purchase of
drugs (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreements). To ensure that adequate
Syrian staff becomes available to meet the needs of the expanding programme in
veterinary services, the project includes a study of manpower and training re-
quirements in this field, to be completed by June 30, 1977 and the recommenda-
tions of which would begin to be implemented by December 31, 1977 (Section
3.05 of the draft Loan Agreements).
41.       Feed Prices.  While feed traded within the private sector is sold at
market prices, the prices of feeds sold by the Government organizations (para-
graph 26) do not necessarily reflect relative feed values. Under the project
a study would be carried out by June 30, 1977 to review feed price policies
and to review price relationships among different feeds and between feeds and
animal products; the recommendations of the study would begin to be imple-
mented by December 31, 1977 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreements).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
42.       Cost estimates are summarised below (excluding duties and taxes):
US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
Working capital required to finance
co-operatives annual feed needs                      20.5       4.2      24.7
Animal health services                                   1.1      3.6       4.7
Technical assistance                                    0.1       0.4       0.5
Base Cost                                              21.7       8.2      29.9
Physical contingencies                                  0.1       0.4       0.5
Price increases                                          2.4      1.7       4.1
TOTAL.                                               24.2      10.3      34.5



- 13 -
Cost estimates have been adjusted to end-1975 price levels. Physical contin-
gencies included are 10 percent of the cost of the animal health component and
5 percent of the cost of technical assistance. Price contingencies, totalling
13.5 percent of base cost, reflect the projected trend of international prices.
43.       The Bank Loans of $17.5 million would fir-ance 51 percent of the total
cost of the project, net of duties and taxes. Bank financing would cover the
foreign exchange cost ($10.3 million) and $7.2 mil]ion of the local cost of the
project. The local cost financing (see justification in paragraph 13 above)
would allow disbursements from the Bank Loans to contribute a reasonable share
of financing for expansion of the NFRF, which is destined mainly for use by
the poorer members of the population (paragraph 52). The farmers would finance
20 percent of the funds required for co-operatives annual feed purchases ($5.5
million). The remaining costs ($11.5 million) would be financed by the Govern-
ment.
Procurement
44.       Feed purchased with credit provided by NIRF would be procured by
flockowners through existing private and public trade channels. The sheep
dipping centres,for which disbursements would not be made from the Bank Loans,
would be procured through competitive bidding advertised locally, following
a review of bidding documents by the Bank. Vehicles for the animal health
services would be procured through international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Pharmaceuticals would be
procured through international shopping with at least three quotes, to allow
procurement of brands customarily used in Syria. Equipment for the animal
health services comprises many small items to be obtained from different
manufacturers; it would be procured through competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures, acceptable to the Bank, or, where applicable, through
international shopping with at least three quotes. Procurement of pharmaceu-
ticals, vehicles and equipment would be grouped as far as practicable. Con-
sultants services, amounting to about 70 man-months at an average cost of
$6,700 per month (excluding contingencies), would be procured in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Disbursement
45.       The Bank Loan, to be fully disbursed by September, 1982, would be
disbursed against:
-    57 percent of gross disbursements under l:he project until
December 31, 1976 and thereafter of incremental disbursements
by NFRF for credit for financing supplementary and fattening
feed purchases by members of livestock co-operatives;
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures or 70 percent of local
expenditures for equipment, pharmaceuticals and vehicles for
animal health services;
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants.



- 14 -
Emergency Feed Reserve
46.       The establishment of the Emergency Feed Reserve would not be financed
out of the proceeds of the proposed loan. Nevertheless, since it is a key
element in the stabilization and improvement of the national sheep flock,
agreements and understandings have been reached with the Government on its
major features. It has been agreed (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Loan Agree-
ments) that a reserve sufficient to provide adequate feed resources to sheep
producers during drought years should be established over a three-year period.
The Government's intention is that the target maximum size of the Emergency
Reserve, to be reached in the first three years, will be at least 280,000
tons, of which cottonseed cake will account for not more than 65,000 tons and
the balance will be made up of a stock of feedgrain, mostly barley. This
target is estimated to be sufficient to provide an average size of reserve
adequate to meet emergency feed needs in likely drought situations, but its
size would be reviewed from time to time in the light of operating experience.
The availability of cottonseed cake is fairly stable, even in drought years,
and it is exported from Syria. Accordingly, the cottonseed cake component of
the Emergency Reserve would not be stored, but the Government's intention is
that in a drought year exports of cottonseed cake would not be permitted until
65,000 tons of cake had been made available to sheep flockowners as emergency
feed. The feedgrain component of the Reserve would be held as a stock, to be
stored in existing storage facilities controlled by the General Organisation
for Feed (GOF).
47.       Establishment and operation of the Emergency Reserve would be the
responsibility of GOF. The funds required by GOF to establish, operate and
replenish the reserve would be provided by the Government. The Reserve would
be stored in existing storage facilities controlled by GOF, and would be rclled
over to the extent to which current production of barley permits. Plans for
rodent and insect control in the GOF warehouses, as well as those belonging to
the livestock co-operatives, would be carried out by June 30, 1977 (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreements). GOF would be provided with a feed stock
management adviser (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreements).
48.       Unless unusual circumstances materialize, the feedgrain component
of the Emergency Reserve would be established and replenished from surpluses
in domestic feedgrain production, normally exported, when they occur. The
rate at which the feedgrain component of the Reserve is accumulated depends
therefore on weather conditions; if serious droughts occur early in the life
of the Reserve, a part of the feedgrain requirement would be procured abroad.
In any case, the Government's intention is that no exports of feedgrain would
be permitted unless the feedgrain component of the Emergency Reserve is at
its target level.
49.       The Government's intention is that normally, emergency supplies of
feed would be made available to individual flockowners at a price which would
cover (i) the cost of barley purchased by GOF, (ii) GOF's procurement, storage
and distribution charges on the basis of norms to be reviewed by the Bank, and
(iii) the financial charges borne by GOF for the Emergency Reserve. However,
in the event of a major drought disaster, defined as two severe drought years



- 1 5 -
in succession, which would impair flockowners' payment capacity for emergency
feed, the Government could allocate feed at less than actual cost, in which
case the Government would provide to GOF, by way of grant, the funds required
to cover the difference between the sales price and actual cost. The Agricul-
tural Co-operative Bank (ACB) would provide flockownErs with credit to help
finance the cost of emergency feed purchases. Sheep owners would raise
cash for their share of the purchase cost of emergency feed by culling more
rigorously than usual, disposing of old and less procuctive breeding ewes and
thus improving the overall performance of their flocks.
50.       Use of feed from the Emergency Reserve would be decided by the
Minister for Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. On advice from the Ministry's
Animal Production Department, he would declare a drought, and instruct GOF on
the quantities of feed to be released from the Emergency Reserve and the
locations at which it should be made available. Successful utilization of
the reserve depends on the Government's and GOF's ab.lity to respond quickly
and make feed available where needed and in the appropriate quantities when
a drought situation emerges. The Animal Production Department would at all
times monitor the evolution of feed availability nat:Ionwide through MAAR's
Provincial services (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan i,greements). A Director
of GOF would be appointed, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank, and directly responsible to the General Manager of GOF, whose only
responsibility would be to manage the Emergency Reser-ve (Section 3.04(b) of
the draft Loan Agreements). His appointment would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan. GOF and ACB would establish by December 31, 1976,
coordinated procedures, to be reviewed by the Bank, -for making available feed
and credit, respectively, to beneficiaries of emergency feed allocations.
Benefits and Risks
51.        In conjunction with the Government-financed emergency feed reserve,
which would prevent the major sheep losses now occurring in drought years, the
project would lead to a major increase in output of the national sheep flock.
Through the provision of adequate financing of purchased feed, the project would
provide incentives for fattening for about twice the number of animals fattened
at present, strengthen the recent trend of providing supplementary winter feed
to animals on the range, and increase the availability of grazing resources to
range sheep. The strengthening of animal health services would consolidate the
gains in sheep flock stabilization by sharply reducing the losses in livestock
and production resulting from preventable infectious diseases and parasites.
At a national level, at full development by 1983, the project is expected to
lead to increases in meat, milk and wool production of 67,33 and 10 percent
respectively. The economic rate of return of the Project and the interrelated
Emergency Feed Reserve is estimated at 21 percent, and would remain attractive
even for a range of adverse assumptions; if operating costs increased by 10
percent and the incremental value of production fell simultaneously by 15
percent, the economic return would still be 9 percent.
52.       The beneficiaries of the project, sheep flockowners and fatteners,
are among the poorer people in Syria with a per capita income of about 50 per-
cent of the national average. The principal beneficiaries of the project



- 16 -
would be the bedouin and semi-nomadic flockowners, members of the sheep and
range co-operatives. Under the project, their number would increase from
11,400 at present to 24,000 by 1980, thus covering two-thirds of the bedouin
flockowners. Around 1983, when the full effect of the project and the
Emergency Feed Reserve on the national sheep flock would be felt, their net
per capita income would have increased from slightly over $200 now to about
$400. The number of sheep fatteners benefitting from the project is expected
to increase from about 1,600 at present to 2,800 by the end of project imple-
mentation. By 1980, when sheep fattening co-operatives would reap the full
benefits of the project and the Emergency Feed Reserve, their net per capita
income, now also slightly over $200, would have increased to about $315.
Through the establishment of the Emergency Feed Reserve, all bedouin flock-
owners (estimated at 35,000) and to a lesser extent all sheep fatteners, even
if not members of co-operatives, would benefit from the reduction of losses
in stock and of the associated variability in income from year to year. Con-
sumers would also benefit from the increased availability of meat and milk
products.
53.       The main risk faced by the project is related to the fluctuations
of sheep feed availability as a result of variable rainfall. In the event
that adequate measures are not taken to ensure that range sheep flock-owners
have survival rations of feed available during drought years, benefits of the
use of supplementary feed financed through NFRF as well as the benefits de-
rived from improved animal health services would be greatly reduced. In
order to minimise this risk, the Government would provide specific assurances
concerning the establishment and timely operation of the Emergency Feed
Reserve (see paragraphs 46-50).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreements between the Syrian Arab Republic and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the texts of draft resolutions approving
the proposed loans are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Features of the draft Loan Agreements of special interest are
described in paragraphs 34, 37-41, 46, 47 and 50 of this report.
56.       Appointment of the Executive Secretary, the price, feed allocation
and cost accounting advisers of the NFPC (paragraph 34); of the     aboratory
equipment adviser of MAAR's Animal Health Department (paragraph 40); and of
GOF's feed stock management adviser (paragraph 47); and of the Director of
COF for the Emergency Reserve (paragraph 50) would be additional conditions
of the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third Window
Loans.



- 1 7 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Dirctors approve the proposed Loans.
Robert S. McNamara
Pres-ident
by J. Burke Knapp
June 22, 1976
Attachments






Page of pages
SYRI!AN A'AO RP  - SOCIAL INDICATORS3 DATA OREET
LAND  AREA  (THOU  RH?)..       .....:    ... .....EFRN                      CU TIS (qO
------                         SYRIAPA ARAB RP             RFRNC    OINRFP190
7TOtAL    (5.2                              H03T RECENT
ARARLE     ..1Q6                       1970  ESOTIATE     TUNISIA     TURREy      LERANON *
GNP E CAPITA (tiNt)             150.      2.0      0.03.0                  5.0      10.0
POAULATION AND VITAL OTATISTICS
POPULATIDA (HIS-TA. RILLITTA)  4~~ ~~~~~~.6  6.3  6.9    9.1     3Ssp      0.
AOH:ULAISAIl DENSITY
PER SIIUAHE RH*       0~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~5.0  S4 0  37.0  Sio 450    06.
PER SQUARE KP, APARLE LAND     ,        50        *            90      100      5S.o
VITAL STATISTICS
CDOE STIR PT   EIOJRN           ..     4R.      A.             59,0     3,   A
CP   ' ETHPT  ER DTAOSAN 4        0.T      10             140      .   ;   10
INFANT TOROALITY RAte 1/HU)    .       9.0        .106.0               15. 0     RV.0
LIFED SPECTAICY AT AIRTY TYRSI  ..     3.0      56.0           56.0O    55.0 It  SRI0
GCROSS PEPRODUUCTION 4ATE       ..      3.5      5.5            3.4      26U 7.   1.I
'OPULATInN CR0.00 RATE 101
TOTAL                         3 .6     3, 2      5              0.       05        .
aRA4                           .       50                               I .  .   6.
UR9AN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)  3 7 .0   4,        4 4,.0        40.0I     3 9 .0  59.7
RUE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
TO) I4 TEARS               4 6.0    490      Iq~            46.  a   AlR       U,
NO  YEARS AND  OVER            0.0      4,0      4.0            4.       4.03     5.0
ACE DEPENDENCY YATT             1.       I.       1.110                   0,        09
ECO nOIC DEPNDNCRTI20                   20.           . 2        1.8 lb    I.  a    10
l'AILY RL ANIO
ACCERADRO IC9IAIE T0I          .                  .           05.0    484,0 Id  H.
0S'ERS  It% IF TARRIED  AOTENI  .                               2..1.0  aP.2     A4.0
TTLLRRFORCE (TTOUSANDI   1)00.0   15000/41700.0           1400.0  14500,00   570,0
LROOR EOACE IN AORICJLTURE 15)  47.0  AA,Y 7;  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~54.0  5 7.0 /0  NT0  I 9 0
UNALYE F0O LAIR DYE        0.0      5,T '    4.             IAD/     4.0 'C    N.
tNCO9E_DISTRIOUTIOR
I OF PRIVATE  NCE RECS RD.
-RICHEST St2 OP POPULATION     ..        ..        .2 3. 5/A            3 2 .08   6O. 0 /
HIRE ST POT O POPLATIO                                         Ss . .  55 Id  60.6 sg 5.07~
LOAS ET 20K OEPUPULATION                                        A .  . :   ,      40/
LO.EYT ADO :F P IPULATION      0.       .         .16U                   R4j      10 1-
OI5TRIOITTIDN OF LAND UVNERSTTP
N OA4EO ST TYP (00 OF ONERO  ..  ..  ..         ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33.0  5 3.0  I7,/b
 OANEO ST S-1LLEST(ORD O.NEYS   ..       ..       ..0,                    0:.9     .
HEAL.TY 4N0 NUTRITION
HOHU-LATION PER RYSCIAN        5000.0/  3050 o.0o  3060.0      5950.0    2220.0   IT.
ADUATNPEA NItgIR PERSON     ., A60. 3.000                  70.0 SRIRO, '0100. 
AOPULA'TTNPEA ADTPIDL NED     930.014  110.     0900           410. 'f  AR.       060,0
CALURIS (OD  OESUIRE9ENTS)   100,0    107,0    1 0 7,50,                1        960
PROTEIN (CRARS PE~R DA)74D         T.)        .            54.0      TR0      70.
OFY_ AAC. ANINAL AID 1DLSE  OR.)     16.0 Ab   ..4.0 A                20.0     II11,0
OEA4T  9ATF  11)90U1  ACES  1-4  /.       .        ....                   1.        8 .0
ED-'CATT IV
ADJUSTEOD ENYOLLOET RATIO
RRTHIAR ICOIL                60. 0                                               IID/0 ,  IT0  ,0 110 'U
"IECONDAYT SC.'OD1L           16,0     39 D 7W    _            200     CR,T      4007d
HEARS IF SCHO0IILIIO RTHIDEIO
(ERF"    "ItSCONDLVEL)        0.0     I2.Yn    12.0           3,       110      ( 0.
VOCATIONAL ENROLLM ENT
YO NDFCDnDAYI0                        S. t         .3 4.0              1,0       (0/
HO IS I Nr
RETNO PP ROOT' (AVERAGE)       2.IA .b                          2,.7 '   1.0      2I1
"CC"1IEI  I ELLIDO  .TOUT
HOE  ATERA(01               SR.0 /b    .        ..60).r /              64,0     Sa.0
ACCESS TO ELECTY"C"TY
I3 OF ALL DUELLI 'GS)         30.0 It    .                     2. 4,0 /    I41,1  580,
RURAL O.ELLIICS CU NNECTEFD_
TO  ELECTRICITY  C%1          11.0/0     ..       .              .       R,
ADEERCRD (HEY THOU ROPT   47.0     2.0,0     5.            73,       4,       5.
SEE NODES AND DEFTUITT;IS ON REVERSE



--n torj- noted, data for 1963 refer to 1)89-61, for 1970 to 1968-70. and far Hoer ore-> F-tieoe10 O-
ebann-  o neen eleotad aorbjarnio- co-try on the ta-s ot obe rirong and -otnoa          rnnn     oil    tcrclad        ootnltire ohioh
SYRIA8             1960    'a1962;     ,'i 1bi-62.
10-70   a  3yrian population only;   lb i96L-66;     /  In-luding PPWA ertonle.
MO'T 810C7N7 F1T0MATE:  'a  Toniodin,' 710RWotoA
7UtOSLA            191     /  1966;   /frOntOn of o-pulooo    -nder 18 and 61 and t-e 00 roio  labor foro;    /   Moire only:   /d Lonoe r-ipia-t>
aPer-ntel ir gon-  -cet -ei-te   only;    'f Gonrrort toni tal noly;      L    08n
noopo  1770  /0 lonindee 17 eactorn pruninoce; /b  lu65-67;    onI Rtatn  o population -der 18 and 68 a-d e'nolabor forno 18 yeor
_____        -      8Th~~~~Y an  n'; d1614 -oJn      8676pret being 1TUD;          'e 11 yaare I0 anod', cooldade  uneelyad;    If R.iagt-trd
only;    I  Diarcoable bneme. of hoosaholda;   b   L-ndioddg -eett-t --r 00 008  idale-      /14164-66;     7j Pere-e
L yeanre old and no- ala tell the Ianon  akere that they ran . randno rite.
L02A0714           1711    /. P--oa disposble L--.c If hooaahold, Hal-at and ookirt,;          1 1966;    /n   -nidi~neltunt noroc      andcioe;
______        -    ~~~~~7~ Ea-lading 26 per-t of petea-  -obole;  !e  l yaar  and ecr',red and rite.
RI. Febros r 4, 1976
DEFPINITIONS 0' SOIAIL, fl7110TOPb5
1s-i Area  co.a foo ,.                                                                                        obtn      dinid,dbyn, tben of pr-t-cicg
T- Tta ca/ne,orea en    il    land are  and inland aat-r.0                          -.    ---       -"rie"o             nriid      o-r,ad
Ac-lc  -ne re- rt etjatino   If 1 Td are  -od toono.rarly o per-eantly           ooitoepreaa         lOtaIning crrpe-ie-n.
fee nototo         - atcee, coker and kineh- oardene or tolie fa1lco.                                                1 Ppdn  e-trded ty -anter,` hoapitol i hda
- emote generac and pecinli-oe boepat1 an,d
100ne -aito (US$) - G07 ear .api,. eetia'r  at erkcet pei-ae.c-al-           eehabil'totinn oenter-; -nldee -oraic,g hoe  and entabl-h-ten    for
Intr toy coe-n-ni- machod oe World Hank Anion (ip'2-yL haie).                  rn   dalad preret,ti'e care.
Per capit _uppy of cacebee (5 of reoaira--to    - C-prated fran e-ngy
nonnlatn.  ~~~~~~~''0""''''                                  epoOnalen~aq1.1t of net food e-pli-e  'O  b _e c Inoatefye -  aplt pee day;
/crolatic - ' ' 0 -  - ' -  iC of -lai fi-et; if coo ani -ba  errage     etol      apianeno         o-dopouto.igroioepr
tan an i-yeon eetc-nne.                                                       and ot-g-r in, etok; net ouppliec coo lde antr1 lend, eredo, qoutitlee
,aeci to food pr-e-eing and inoac -r dletri-otin; -eco--rent  were
0nnulutt~~ - ,   -  - - - ~Mud-year pop,lot ion per _qoa- kilo-         retie_ed 83' FAO booed on p83cniclegtcci -ed. fat - neala t-iity
rote'-   '  en.                                             on~~~~~~~~~~id health oe-id-ning -oor-rentol n-poe..atn.- hedy aeightt, age and
Pon"lat'o'c .onnoPc la r oo- an I a...abl loand - Cr-oued as -o fee-a diet tb-tion           of pcpaatio-, and allowing 101 for -ten  at icoaehcold
Per capita copply of pot,In jg,-    Imroy) - Protein -eent of pee
caita ee  eplyo fn       _ydrc net    pply of fond to defined no
'r                I      i.~~~~~~1 lac biTohe per nh-uaod of nid-       adore;  eoiaen      for al1 nounntei retabliebed by 0110 Poan-cb
oeeaanboin 1961. 1973 and              lecoa-h lar-i-a p-onde for a e-oior   a11a-o   of 60 guan  of tntol
1000 '-o" Oc- 'Ipi" '-'-coo.te                                                 ptein per nay, lnd -20 ooe   of antoab and paler prutenn, If ouch 10
ka-  deanhe er obo--ad of dad-year               r-cc  h-ood bc       p-t - o'tin, t],e- et.darl  are lone it]an th-e of
aeaen ening in 0060. 1900 and 1975            175 guan  of total yp-teto and 21 dron  of ori-ni -rt-o  a   -an -nge
d-e enpiop-  -on;tnoon                                                       foe ti po1d, yrp-oed hry PAO in the Third World Fond Barny.
on an                     I~~~~~~~~- leanhc ef mInute order one ye- an  e,-pit.a erntei-l-'             ln pol-e - pent,rin opply of :'nod
If                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~den aced fra.o. -   g,ono n   dy.
_________________________ Age- antber-~ of-raeof lifernaco_-                              '    --An.l de-th, cc       ho,n-d in opr granp in-i
'aeap rd-no: 08 1961, 1070 and              --.                        age gcn-y; caggonted do an idL-aar of mal-
o 75 "or, dc...Icotcg  cuctcntrition.
r0n- 'roprn0-i-n-o  a~t - A-eage n-mer of live dacgiuer a na     i-
en- -. -ceno   enud-ctice pertod uf cin m-pIrcennee per-ont ar-           -d-natoc-
cyrotfr fer-lto  anac;: oulyfir-year -rrgoodiop in 196-.Acooeeicetcoi                               rrr     ooe - doI,rnlne-t of oll agne.n
cc7nideun-o- -  -t'           -                                                                                                     -     
____n ___,I  ___-  ___M __M ___      :Tridd         ..ca .oath rnte  of dad-     b-il1 ye-c bo- adjoineId fo1ifeen      negnic  If poiccay ed-ea-to;
fie. -Od           -.      '     ,   n   1063o   -,o reen year.                 fur cn-atei. nith uni-ec-1 ednoan-, enrlicent any eoc-d 100%
.aoolotnnn on-c   '       ~~~~-Tcpntcd like grcath eane of atota         itue coe aiPe     ac belco cc ob- t.he cffioial notoal age.
-   f  hanto  a-oo  cup affect uepr-''-m                     a      ati0-n-''- 3-'-t 0      - Occyted no ahone; ae ed-
_1i tlO   If inoa-cg n-rrtee.                                                   -   '        egfreL at           M    M-- f apprceed pri-ar  in-trc-
-'   -  'C'      n).- patio o~~f arbac to total pcpolati-n dif-         tioc; pr-cidee genecal, 'c rmerlo teacher trainiug inet-oti-n o'er
- -  ---      n no-coo ray off-t t-nparbility of data               pupils of 12 to 17 pecIf age; Ioa.ceep-ndn-- corncar        -ercaly
Are -'- " - "ennt) - Iildeen(i-ILy.. per) , woking-ago (1-68 fec) '..0-                                                       ra fnen
on -    .eonad   a'sr o prncntane- of eld-yra    population.              '                                                 - 'n' I' ---. - cy be partially
- - ' 'edeno- rtio  - Mtto of p-nulaion -ndec 15 aod 65 ad c-e in          or-oonletclycold.
nOt 6                            0 -                         '   ; - ) - Onna~~~~~~~~~~~eeticoal in-crituion  inalade
000- 0 e population order 15 and 65 and -re                                  -'''-ceenthie                             -prtehndeend-trly o
l... 1-  -creoro-  cne  cae   th-n) -ounaln- n.cer of                   -   ---'                        abln(able to rend and a-it) on pro-
coe' c  f -i         i-i'-  rlcac -dee alnepirac of national family       rentope cf ot-iadda'~ pnpalaticn aced 15 yocar ond onc,
plon-ung'rrrn'-'"'e     c-  i-n'o
-antic nbc                  or~ea  ero - Pnrn....nageo of -aried
annext'                 aacelolca';n~h euu---not-1lir                                          A,Oerage nuherIfoper-nan perro-   ion un.puad
,in-  t al   torried io-nc Ian    Cag  ornp.                                                            arhan- n..ea; d'-aliige e-1lde no-pec--uet
Zamlrne-                                                                        Ira_ eddoiaoo ndnt Pined comer 0d)-         ccpied  onnuea       aE
7oI'allb1---"    (th-coadl -   r-n-4oiallyco--. e--co, innlladto,                 nog  in o-han and  n'a an-  aithe-t -oido or co,tude piped unte
-e ad a.rcr'-u       e aigiuenae,auet,on                              oilitnaca    p-rnettC of all o-paind dacellirga-
lefi'c;lnu  Ion'ci-'n-c-are nc         eerbe                                  orat -                         ~''0     -lnrtoa d-riunge anti
.aiur fr-c in rct'oulon-  (81 Agri-altanllm  on  tofroo,rouro.                                                     f total da,clitenn- arhbn
anil  d foohing) as p-enen-ge op tota.l lar farce,                aricn-al ra-.
-  C- Onplored ore -rri12y -Irfinad ae per-en        lanai dacll ge ooen-tedlit     trniy    0)   -p,eteol an ob.no for coal
I-o-ale a         I, nor o a cn -o api    day, o.ig                  ny
-ad  - ' o lo, ad eelnig crk frapelod ul1i-na
-- d no    n  ending; on ek; -ny netn.  nc-ocate bet-e nou-                  int-treoto
njr ei           niunon     P;n'el-,dndc_rrofdta,                      Raddcrenenel (cer tolp)- All typee of raeto           o  radio brand-
oea'-a'n -o o1ta,tre -n,  -aoro  -aern  cnonrocy Inn-ccot genera pabla pntho-and of opudation; runidee oalic,eo-d
o, In-ne  0 s-anr-                                                              rre-riv-noont,    ao ad 08I year  at-n c egitrotion of radio oentaa
In ocetAn; data fee r-ten  yere ooa, not h. o -oeacni  eun- noatcon
-n-ne Iien''o        Pern-age n- prinate innoen (,th tor rooh a-i                 er    lite     la-noILng.
kineo "r-.--"  -" ri,heor 5d, richee' n1P orecr28.an      cece                r-'                 -         Pannei e crs -eeclen-   o  earo eeaiig
f- non  anon'-n                                                                        ,              1,,dee, -beuic-- hnoe-   -c it,o~
'' - -Prercennar-coTt- .-e1 -o o1,hib-t                    -        -   '   '   C-Annca -o-pcti-n 01td-oriul. coneer-
0 oanreo,                                          -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~elentrieboy in ktincat in-ar per capita; get-
ncnlly ha-ed cc -eod,ot,en data, aitlo t allow-ne foc Iaoeo  in grids
tot allowing fo    .rnota and e-ynete of el riotty.
- -   - Ocolouce  Riided Ac.runner o nrannirnr  '      '''              Per neyro aunuo  oonoucetorni08 oklogeer
* con o ernirol roicool or ron nnrnovc le nel,      '       pco&untncn ~~pine ant cOptateof newop-oot



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974L/                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices,
US$ Mln.       %                       1960 -65          196s -70       1970-7L
GNP at Market Prices          3,995       100.0                        8.5              5.5           5.6
Gross Domestic Investment       913        22.9                        1.5              10.6         15.0
Gross National Saving 2/      1,140        28.5                         -               7.0           2.0
Current Account Balance         227         5.7
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,059        26.5                       .5.1               o.6          3.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,329        33.3                        0.0              4.6          2;.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1973 1!
Value Added                  Labor Forcel/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$_MlLn.     %.                Min.       f                   US $        5
Agriculture                     433      19.3                 .86     50.5                  505        3-.3
Industry                        504      22.4                 .19     11.2                 2,650      200.0
Services                      1,309      58.3                 .60     35.3                 2.180       65.2
Unallocated                     -         -                   .05      3.0                   -           -
Total
2,246     100.O      0             17   00.                  1,320      100.0
GOVERNMIENT FINANCE
General Government
( S .L. Mln. )     g of GOP
1974         1974       1970-74
Current Receipts                  4,293         29.6         25.0
Current Expenditure               3.204         22.1         21.0
Current Surplus                   1,089          7.5          4.0
Capital Expenditures              2,393         16.5         12.3
External Assistance (net)         2,003         13.8          -
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1970         1           1972       1973                    1971,
{MLillion s.L.3*utstanding end perio
Money and Quasi Money                   2,521        2,715       3.428       4,114                   597'
Bank credit to Public Sector            2,790        3.210       4,016       3,677                    52
Bank Credit to Private Sector             551          570         578         653                     '2
(Percentages or Index Numbers
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        39.2         56.5        38.6        43.7                      51.1
General Price Index (1963 = 100) 4/       115          120         131         136                    1.35
Annual percentage changes int
General Price Index 4j                    -            4.4         9.2         3.8                      36.0
Bank credit to Public Sector             26.6         15.1        25.1        -8.4                      '1.5
Bank credit to Private Sector            -7.6          3.5         1.4        13.0                     13.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average e):change rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Preliminary estimates.
2/ 1ncl-lding current transfers from abroad equivalent to US$424 millions.
T Total labor force: unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first ,ok.
,? IDP fr] S>o r
not available
not aDDlicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973     1974                                               US $Mln %.
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          482       604    1,059
Imports of Goods, NFS          599       690    1,329
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -117      -86      -270                Crude Oil                        188      39.2
Raw Cotton                        136     28.3
Interest Payments (net)         -7       -1         7                Textiles                           48     10.0
Workers' Remittances             68       51       66                Wosl                               15      3.1
other Factor Payments (net)     -        -         -                 Industrial Products                15      3.1
Net Transfers                   58       373      424                All other commodities              78     16.3
Balance on Current Account        2      337      227                    Total                       -IYW     1U070
Direct Foreign Investment        -        -        -              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 30       67      118                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization                 -35      -40      -48
Subtotal                    - 5        27       70               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            257.8
Capital Grants                  -         -        -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Private Short-Term Capital(net) 17       -27       20               Total outstanding & Disbursed            257.8
Other items n.e.i               -7       -21     -144
Increase in Reserves (+)          7      316      1731            DEBT SERVICE., % of exports, 1974
Gross Reserves (end year)L/     172      461      597     982
Net Reserves   (end year)L/     -36      276      445     664       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            5.0
Non-Gua-rteQdjixatltDa1_t
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed            5.0
Imports                        24       28       74
of which: Petroleum         (..)     (..)     (..)
Exports                        52       77      434
of which: Petroleum         (52)     (77)    (434)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through January 1973
US$ 1.00 = LS 3.82 (Official)
US$ 1.00 = LS 4.32 (Market)
February 1973 to June 1973
US$ 1.00 = LS 3.85 (Official)
US$ 1.00 = LS 4.05 (Market)
July 1973 to January 1974
US$ 1.00 = LS 3.80 (Official & Market)
LS 1.00 = US$0.26 (Official & Market)
February 1974 to Date
US$ 1.00 = LS 3.70
LS  1.00 - US$0.27
1/      Recently revised data.   Includes $27.5 in gold, valued at $35 per ounce.   Increase in Reserves is the
balance of payments differ from differences in end-vear Net Reserves, due to changes in the exchange rate.
not available
not applicable



Annex II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
A. Statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
(As of May 31, 1976)
Number    Year    Borrower                 Purpose      Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
46       1963    Syrian Arab Republic     Highways             8.5        -
298       1972    Syrian Arab Republic     Highways            13.8       13.8
401       1973    Syrian Arab Republic     Water Supply        15.0       14.2
469       1974    Syrian Arab Republic     Irrigation          10.0        8.5
975       1974    Syrian Arab Republic     Irrigation   63.0              63.0
986       1974    Etablissement Public
d'Electricite           Electricity   25.0              17.1
986-1     1975    Etablissement Public
d'Electricite           Electricity    8.6               8.6
1144       1975    Etablissement Public
d'Electricit6           Electricity   72.0              72.0
1241-      1976    Etablissement Public
des Eaux de Figeh       Water Supply 35.0               35.0
126111     1976    Syrian Telecommunica-    Telecommuni-
tions Establishment     cations       28.0              28.0
Total                                         231.6   47.3      260.2
of which has been repaid                     0       .2
Total now outstanding                         231.6    47.1
Amount sold                                     1.1     0
of which has been repaid                     0       0
Total now held by Bank and IDA-               230.5   47.1
Total undisbursed                             223.7   36.5       260.2
1/ Signed June 9, 1976.
21 Prior to exchange adjustments.
B. Statements of IFC Investments: None
(As of May 31, 1976)



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 290 - Second Highway Project; US$13.8 million credit of April 17, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: Februiary 2, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This project includes improvement and construction of 153 km of
roads linking Damascus with the Lebanese and Jordanian borders, and improve-
ment of the Tartous-Homs road. It also includes feasibility studies and
detailed engineering for bypasses for the cities of Homs, Hama, Aleppo and
Deraa and the Aleppo-Tall Kojak Road (about 470 km). Project implementation
started in 1975, after an initial delay due to the unsettled conditions in
the region. In the meantime, the government decided to upgrade the project
roads to four-lane standards for which it has undertaken to provide additional
funds. Arrangements have been made to assess the economic viability of the new
designs.
Credit 401 - Damascus hJater Supply Project; US$15 million Credit of June 22,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 24, 1974: Closing Date: December 31,
1978
This project consisted of five main elements: (i) rehabilitation and
renewal of existing distribution system; (ii) expansion of distribution system
with 370 km of watermains; (iii) construction of a 15-km tunnel to improve the
supply of water to the city; (iv) pumping and storage facilities; and (v) stu-
dies of pollution and sewerage problems in Damascus, Itoms and Hama. Delay in
the execution of the project and high cost overruns prompted the Syrians to
split the works of this project and on May 12, 1975, the Association agreed
that IDA credit would be used only for the urgent phase of the distribution
works (item i) and for pollution and sewerage studies (item v). It was
deemed important to move ahead quickly with the rehabilitation and renewal
of the existing distribution system in order to reduce the amount of water
cuirrently not accounted for due to leakages in the mains and malfunctioning
of the water meters. The work on the urgent phase of the distribution system
is in progress.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to correct them.   They should be read in this sense and with under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Credit 469/Loan 975 - Balikh Irrigation Projects; US$10 million Credit and
US$63 million Loan of April 6, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for the development of irrigated agriculture
in an area of 48,000 ha gross (with a net area which recently was increased
from 41,000 to 45,000 ha) in the Balikh river basin, and the resettlement of
farmers displaced by the filling of Lake Assad. The project includes consul-
tant services from the preparation of an agricultura:l rehabilitation master
plan in the Euphrates Valley, the preparation of a feasibility study for a
55,000 hectares rehabilitation project also in the Valley and the preparation
of detailed designs and contracts' documents for the same area. The project
suffers from substantial delays and cost overruns due for a large part to the
general situation in the region. Bids for the first three civil works con-
tracts have now been received, evaluated and awarded. The Government will
have to arrange for the mobilization of substantial additional financial
resources to meet the project's likely increase in foreign exchange require-
ments. Adequate technical solutions now seem to have been found for problems
of canal construction in gypsoferous soil which has beset works in pilot
areas, provided that supervision is sufficient to ensure the observance of
high standards of construction by contractors. ProcLrement for the next two
irrigation areas is expected to be initiated soon.
Loan 986 - Mehardeh Power Project; US$25 million Loan of May 23, 1974 and
Supplementary Loan of $8.6 million of April 29; Date of Effectiveness:
February 28, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The Project consists of the first 150-MW unit of a new steam-
electric power station at Mehardeh; eight 230-kV substations, consultant
services and training. The Project is co-financed by a US$33 million loan
from the Kuwait Fund, including a second portion of US$15 million to cover
the considerable cost overrun due to the increased level of world prices.
With Amending Agreement signed June 3, 1975, the Bank has increased the loan
by US$8.6 million in order to finance the foreign exchange cost of the in-
crease in capacity of the first unit from 125-NIW to 150-MW. The Amending
Agreements became effective on January 19, 1976. Although main contracts
were awarded about 5 months late, physical progress is satisfactory and
ultimate delays are expected to be minimal.
Loan 1114 - Second Mehardeh Power Project; US$72 million loan of June 17,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: January 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project comprises:   Second steam generacing unit at Mehardeh
construction of 6 and extension of 2 substations, new office building, studies
and training. Progress is as per schedule; the options under the contracts
signed under Loan 986-SYR for the second 150-MW steam electric unit at the new
Mehardeh power station and 220 kV substations have been exercised.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Syrian Arab Republic.
Amount:                Bank:  US$5 million in various currencies.
Third Window: US$12.5 million in various currencies.
Terms:                 Bank loan:  Twenty years, including a 5-year grace
period, with interest at 8.85 percent.
Third Window Loan: Twenty five years including a
7-year grace period, with interest at 4.85 percent.
Relending Terms:       National Feed Revolving Fund.   Through budgetary
allocations, the Government would make the necessary
resources available to the National Feed Revolving
Fund (NFRF) to enable it to make loans to members of
livestock co-operatives for the purchase of annual
feed requirements. NFRF would levy an interest charge
of 7.5 percent per annum on beneficiaries. However,
a preferential rate of 5.5 percent per annum would
be applied to beneficiaries with an annual household
income of less than LS 3,500. NFRF would use the
revenues from interest payments to expand its feed
loan operations.
Project Description:   The project would increase and stabilize livestock pro-
duction and the incomes of bedouin flock owners and
sheep fatteners through the strengthening of national
feed policy, improved feed availability and reinforced
animal health services. The project would consist of:
(a)  strengthening the organizational framework includ-
ing the National Feed Policy Committee, the General
Organization for Feed, NFRF and the Agricultural
Co-operative Bank, to be responsible for defining
and implementing feed policies aiming at optimizing,
on a national basis, the use of available feed
materials and feed storage facilities;
(b)  provision of financing for the annual purchased
feed needs of sheep co-operatives, thus permitting
the creation of 12 new sheep and range co-operatives
and 12 new sheep fattening cooperatives;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(c)  reinforcement of the animal health services of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform through
provision of vehicles equipment, pharmaceuticals
and technical assistance and construction of sheep
dips;
(d)  execution of a study of manpower requirements and
training needs in the animal health field;
(e)  execution of a study of feed prices.
Project implementation would be completed by September 30, 1981.
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ nillion-----
Working capital to finance
co-operatives' annual
feed needs                       20.5      4.2     24.7
Animal health services               1.1      3.6     4.7
Technical assistance                0.1       0.4     0.5
Base Cost                        21.7       8.2    29.9
Physical contingencies              0.1       0.4     0.5
Price increases                     2.4       1.7     4.1
Total Project Cost               24.2      10.3    34.5
Financing Plan:
Component                         Farmers     Gover7nment   IBRD      Total
--------------US$ million--------------
Co-operatives' Annual Feed Needs    5.0          8.4         11.3      24.7
Animal Health Services               -           1.6         3.1        4.7
Technical Assistance                 -           0..1         0.4       0.5
Contingencies                       0.5          1.,4        2.7        4.6
Total Project Cost             5.5         11.5        17.5       34.5



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated Disbursements:                              Annual
Fiscal Year          Amount         Cumulative
--- US$ million ------
1977               0.8               0.8
1978               2.4               3.2
1979               5.3               8.5
1980              4.6               13.1
1981               1.8              14.9
1982               1.7              16.6
1983               0.9              17.5
Procurement          Feed purchased with credit provided by NFRF would be pro-
Arrangements:       cured by flockowners through existing private and public
trade channels. The sheep dipping centres, for which dis-
bursements would not be made from the Bank Loans, would be
procured through competitive bidding advertised locally,
following a review of the bidding documents by the Bank.
Vehicles for the animal health services would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines for ProcuLrement. Pharmaceuticals
would be procured through international shopping with at
least three quotes, to allow procurement of brands custom-
arily used in Syria. Equipment for the animal health ser-
vices comprises many small items to be obtained from dif-
ferent manufacturers; it would be procured through com-
petitive bidding in accordance with local procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, or, where applicable, through
international shopping with at least three quotes. Pro-
curement of pharmaceuticals, vehicles and equipment would
be grouped as far as practicable.
Consultants:         About 70 man-months of consultant services would be
provided under the project, at an average cost (excluding
contingencies) of $6,700 per man-month.
Economic Rate of
Return:            Estimated at 21 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1209-SY dated June 16, 1976



B RD - 11912
t~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F F- --' L I"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot - VE/ W.FEWSES
L               3  / Q: b 7 ? F-_a-i-_t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EF LG l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~0
.7<                      an,  Z  --g  tJ . .. 'FIRST IIVESTOCIi DE\/ELO9lUEr2T 9ROJECT~1.Uw .0
5 4 d oS ~~~~~~~<;^ ~~~~ i \ " 7~~~~~ ' ' = ' 1' " ' ' ' " ' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ " " ' > 'URF,:
t~~~      ~~~                        ~       ~~~~~~~                 ~ -gI XEC  .-Y-T DAADGAUGSwez t 



