FILE COPY
Report No. 1209-SYR
Appraisal of First Livestock
Development Project Syria
June 16, 1976
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (As of March 31, 1976)
Currency Unit                                 Syrian Pound (LS)
LS 1.00                                       US$0. 272
US$1.00                                       LS 3.675
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit                            British/US Equivalent
1 millimeter (mm)                             0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                                   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                              0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                                2.47 acres
1 litre (1)                                   0.264 gallons
1 kilogram (kg)                               2.26 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                            2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACB                                           Agricultural Cooperative Bank
GOF                                           General Organization for Feed
MAAR                                          Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform
NFPC                                          National Feed Policy Committee
NFRF                                          National Feed Revolving Fund
UNDP                                          United Nations Development
Program
USAID                                         United States Agency for
International Development
WFP                                           World Food Program
GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........................   i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....................................                       1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR
A.   General Description .........................                        1
B.   The Livestock and Feed Subsectors ............                       2
C.   Livestock Services   ..........................                      4
D.   Agricultural  Credit   .........................                     5
E.   Government  Livestock Programs   ....                ...........     5
F.   Previous Bank Project  in Agriculture  ....                .....     6
III.    THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives   ..................................                      6
B.   Description   .................................                      7
C.   Cost Estimates   ..............................                      8
D.   Financing   ........             ...........................         9
E.   Implementation   ..............................    11
F.   Disbursements   ...............................    12
IV.    PROJECT  IMEPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management .                 .................    13
B. Credit and Cost Recovery .15
C.   Accounts  and Audit             .........................    16
D.   Monitoring ..................................-                     17
V.    BENEFITS  AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Production ..................................-                      18
B. Markets ................----------------------19
C.   Prices ..................------.---------.--.                      20
D.   Producer  Income .............................    20
E.   Benefits  and Beneficiaries   .......              ...........    21
F.   Economic Evaluation   . ........................    22
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. van Wersch,
W. A. Hardison, and M.F. Carter.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                               Page No.
VI.  AGREENENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........          23
ANNEXES
1. The Livestock Sector
2. Sheep Cooperatives and Credit
3. The National Feed Development Scheme
4. Animal Health Development
5. Cost Estimates
6. List of Goods to be Procured
7. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8. Draft Terms of Reference
9. Livestock Development Projections
10. Producer Income Projections
11. Economic Analysis
FIGURES
World Bank - 16196 Implementation Schedule
World Bank - 15309 Least Cost System of Moving Feed Materials
by 1980
World Bank - 15310(R) Organization Chart
IBRD       - 11912 Map - First Livestock Development Project



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOP"FNT PROJECT
SYRIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Syrian Arab Republic has requested Bank assistance
in preparing and financing a first livestock development project. This would
be the second agricultural project of the Bark Group irn Syria, after the
Balikh I Irrigation project.
ii.       Agriculture is the single most important sector of the national
economy accountirg for 21% of GDP, about half of the labor force, and 60% of
total export earnings. Within the sector, livestock accounts for 35% of out-
put. Most of agricultural production, especially sheep production, is ex-
tremely vulnerable to drought conditions. Under these conditions sheep flocks
suffer from sharp reductions in range feed and in supplemental farm-produced
concentrates. Consequently, meat production and breeding flocks are subject
to great variability causing important losses to the national economy and to
individual flock owners.
iii.      The project aims at increasing and stabilizing sheep production and
the incomes of semi-nomadic flock owners and sheep fatteners through stabili-
zatien of feed availability and improvement of veterinary services. The
project, together with on-going and planned Government actions, particularly
the establishment of an emergency feed reserve, would fill the major gaps in
meeting the development objectives of the livestock sector.
iv.       The project would provide for the establishment of an organizational
framework for improved decision making on national feed resource distribution,
the financing of annual purchased feed needs of existing and new sheep cooper-
atives and a study of feed prices; and it would strengthen the national animal
health services by the provision of equipment, pharmaceuticals, vehicles, and
incremental operating funds, and by a study of the manpower requirements and
training needs in the animal health field.
v.        The feed development component of the project would be implemented
by the :N'ational Feed Policy Committee (NFPC), with a permanent secretariat
to be established; the General Organization for Feed (GOF); the Animal Pro-
duction Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (LvAAR)
administering the National Feed Revolving Fund (NFRF); and the Agricultural
Cooperative Bank (ACB). The animal health services component would be imple-
mented by the Animal Health Department of MAAR. Five consultants for a total
of six man-years would assist in implementing the project.
vi.       The project would be implemented in 5 years at an estimated cost
of US$34.5 million, of which the Bank would finance US$17.5 million (51%1o of
total project cost including physical and price contingencies), covering



- ii -
the full foreign exchange cost and 30% of the local cost. Members of sheep
cooperatives would contribute US$5.5 million. The Government would ftiance
the balance. Vehicles would be procured through irternatioral competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Pharmaceu-
ticals would be procured through international shopping with at least three
quotes. Equipment for the animal health services would be procured through
competitive bidding locally advertised and acceptable to the Bank or, where
applicable, through international shopping with at least three quotes.  Feed
purchased with credit provided by NFRF would be procured by sheep owners
through existing public and pr4vate trade channels.
vii.      At full development, in about 1983, the incremental production in
the sheep subsector due to the project and the associated emergency feed re-
serve would be 59,300 tons of meat (liveweight basis), 49,600 tons of milk and
1,300 tons of wool. The project would have importar-t secondary benefits in the
form of stabilizing producer incomes, institution building, and improved veter-
inary services to other livestock subsectors. The main beneficiaries would be
about 27,000 families including 24,000 seri-nomadic families whose average
incomes would be raised by an estimated 827%, from about US$1,330 at present
to US$2,420 at full development, and about 3,000 member families of sheep
fattening cooperatives whose average incomes would increase by an estimated
45% from an average US$1,295 to US$1,880. The economic rate of return for the
project is estimated to be 21% and would not be less than 9% even under the
two combined most adverse assumptions about costs and benefits.
viii.     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, subject to
the conditions of effectiveness, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$5.0 million equivalent and a Third Window loan of US$12.5 million equiv-
alent to the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic. The Bank loan would be
for 20 years including 5 years of grace, and the Third Window loan would be
on standard terms.



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
SYRIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Syrian Arab Republic has requested a Bank loan
to help finance a project to stabilize the feed base of the livestock sector and
to strengthen the veterinary services to improve livestock production.
1.02      The project was identified by a FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
Msission in February-March 1974 from a range of possibilities proposed by the
Government and was prepared by a further Cooperative Program Mission jointly
with the Government in September 1974.
1.03      This report is based on the Cooperative Program's Preparation
Report, on additional information provided by the Syrian authorities, and on
the findings of an apDraisal mission consisting of Messrs. J. R. Vaughn,
W. A. Hardison, H. van Wersch (Bank) and J. D. McCrary (Consultant) and of a
post-appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. M. D. ffrench-Mullen and
4. F. Carter (Bank).
1.04      During appraisal one component of the project as originally proposed,
namely hay production through intensification of a biennial wheat-fallow
rotation, was eliminated. This was done on the grounds that the Government
had decided to greatly accelerate fallow elimination. This would jeopardize
the success of the proposed hay production component. Moreover, the Govern-
ment and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) had
concluded a loan agreement which included financing for this project component.
Following appraisal, it was decided not to include the emergency feed reserve
in the project as the Government undertook to finance entirely such a reserve.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General Description
2.01      Agriculture is the single most important sector of the Syrian economy
with about half of the national labor force, a 21% share in GDP, and 60% of
total export earnings. Major crops are cereals, pulses, cotton and a variety
of fruits and vegetables. Livestock, mainly sheep. accounts for about 35% of
agricultural output.
2.02      Agricultural production is closely linked to the amoumt and distri-
bution of rainfall, both in space and in time. As a result, out of a total
land area of 18.5 million ha, 7.9 million ha are cultivable.  However, only



-2-
3.4 million ha were under crops in 1973, of which onlv 0.6 million ha irri-
gated. Much of the uncultivable and most of the uncultivated lands are uti-
lized for grazing. Extersive sheep production is varticularly vulnerable
to drought conditions as these reduce both the amount of range feed and of
supplemental farm-produced feed.
2.03      Crop yields and sheep production vary considerably with rainfall
patterns and so do marketings, although to a lesser extent. as in drought
years bad crops go with high levels of sheep sales and in high rainfall
years good crops go with smaller sheep sales due to the need to rebuild
breeding flocks. Over the past decade, agricultural output has shown no
discernible growth trend and consequently agricultural output per caput ha
declined because of increased population.
2.04      While national income per caput remained constant in 1972 and 1973,
respectively LS 1,168 and LS 1,172 (US$320), agricultural income dropped
from LS 680 (USS185) to LS 470 (US$128), primarily because of drought condi-
tions.
2.05      The Government is making a large effort to both increase and stabi-
lize agricultural production and incomes through a major expansion of the
irrigated area and through intensifying cropping patterns in rainfed farming
areas. Major investments are also made in dairy and poultry production.
B. The Livestock and Feed Subsectors
2.06      The livestock sector in Syria (Annex 1) is based on cattle. poultry
and sheep production. The cattle population is about 500,000, some 40,000 of
which are reported to be medium-to-high producing dairy animals of either the
local Shami breed, crossbreeds, or purebred foreign dairy breeds. These animals
are found in the irrigated areas while the remaining cattle, consisting of
small indigenous low-yielding breeds, are mainly located in the higher rain-
fall areas. Poultry numbers have increased considerably in recent years with
the development of large-scale poultry units. Present annual production
amounts to 10 million chickens and 350 million eggs, of which 6 million
chickens and 100 million eggs are accounted for by the modern sector.
2.07      Sheep husbandry is the most important component of livestock pro-
duction in Syria, accounting for more than 65% of all meat produced, and about
50% of the total output of milk and milk products. The population of adult
sheep is about 6.4 million (1967-73 average). There are three characteristic
forms of sheep production: (a) range-based sheep raising, which is the major
source of income for some 35,000 transhumant bedouin families, amongst the
poorer people in Syria, and which is concentrated in the low rainfall areas
of central and eastern Syria, (b) farm-based sheep production, carried out by
most of the country's half million farm families. to supplement cash income
and for family consumption and (c) intersive lamb fattening and finishing of
cull ewes in and near towns.



-3-
2.08      Since on average about two-thirds of sheep feed intake comes from
natural grazing land, sheep are subject to large interannual nutritional
fluctuations due to rainfall variability. This in turn leads to considerable
variations in fertilitv levels, weaning rates, mortality, population and pro-
ductive output. During drought years, sheep raisers are forced to sell breed-
ing stock while in years of good rainfall offtake rates are reduced in order
to rebuild flocks. As a result, rainfall fluctuations impose considerable
losses on the Syrian economy, and meat and milk supply and prices fluctuate
considerably.
2.09      While most sheep are used for domestic consumption. Syria has bene-
fitted from a substantial but fluctuating import and export trade in meat and
live animals. Typically, yearling rams are imported from Turkey and Iraq for
fattening; and exports, both of meat and live animals are directed towards
Jordan and Lebanon. Occasionally imports are interrupted by Turkev and Iraq
on animal health grounds, and, more frequently, in years of poor rainfall,
exports are restricted or banned by the Government in order to keep down
domestic prices. However there is substantial illegal trade. Over 1967-73
recorded imports of sheep and goats averaged 250,000 head, valued at $3.2
million, and recorded exports averaged 389,000 head, valued at $11.2 million.
However, over the same period the trade surplus in live animals has declined
and an average annual trade deficit in fresh and frozen meat of 82,000 tons
has been recorded.
2.10      The marketing and prices of sheep and sheep products within Syria
are free, except for supplies to Damascus, which are channelled through the
General Supply Institution at fixed prices. Bedouin sheep are marketed mainly
through merchants or small shopkeepers, while villagers usually sell their
animals at regional markets or, on occasion, to merchants. Typically, fattened
animals are sold to traders in regional markets, or to the General Supply Insti-
tution, or are exported. Sheep milk is marketed in the cities mostly in the
form of cheese. Wool is marketed through merchants who use commission agents
to determine its availability for sale. The wool is subsequently sold to
larger merchants who control both domestic and export trade.
2.11      The main livestock feed resources in Syria are rangeland, crop
residue, fallow grazing, straw and concentrates. In general range grazing
provides about 50% of the feed consumed by all livestock; crop residue, straw
and fallow about 32%, and concentrates (barley, cottonseed cake, wheat bran,
sugarbeet pulp, beet molasses) about 16%. Dependence on range grazing is
greatest in the case of bedouin sheep and extensively managed goats (approx-
imately 70% of total intake from range) followed by farm sheep and local
cattle (48%), draught animals (20%) and high producing dairy cows and milking
goats (0%). On average, sheep receive from 25% (in the case of bedouin sheep)
to 40% (for farm sheep) of their total feed intake from crop residue, fallow
and straw, and from 3% (bedouin sheep) to 13% (farm sheep) from concentrates.
2.12      Concentrate prices are affected by Government intervention.  The
prices paid by livestock producers for barley, wheat bran, cottonseed and
sugarbeet pulp reflect the growers' prices for these commodities fixed by the
Government. Barley is Purchased from merchants acting as intermediaries with
the General Organization for Trade and Processing of Cereals. Other concentrates
are obtained directly from processing plants, which are Government-owned.



-4-
C. Livestock Services
2.13      Development of the livestock sector is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), through its Departments of
Animal Hlealth and Animal Production and through several parastatal organisations
which are directly responsible to the Minister. These Departments provide
extension services through the provincial offices of MAAR. The Animal Health
Department operates the veterinary field clinics, which administer about 6
million vaccinations and treat some 5 million cases of disease a year. However
the Department is seriously short of qualified staff and of funds, particularly
to purchase pharmaceuticals which at present are provided free to livestock
owners.
2.14      In 1965 a National Feed Revolving Fund (NFRF) was established with
the proceeds from the sale of feed supplied by the World Food Program (WFP).
The fund is administered by the Sheep and Range Section of the Animal Produc-
tion Department and held in the Agricultural Cooperative Bank (ACB). The
fund provides short-term credit to sheep producers who are organized in coop-
eratives for feed purchases and to sheep cooperatives for the construction of
feed stores. With the original WFP feed aid and later with interest-free
loans from the revolving fund NFRF has stimulated the creation to date of 14
sheep and range cooperatives and 22 sheep fattening cooperatives. Assistance
to farmers in farming and running cooperatives is provided by the general
Farmers' Union and by the Animal Production Department.
2.15      The General Organization for Feed (GOF) was established in February
1974. It has broad responsibilities in the feed sector, including the super-
vision of feed processing and establishment of feed mills, establishment of
feed storage warehouses, supervision of the marketing of all feed commodities
both inside and outside the country, supervision of domestic feed distribution
and the purchase of feed from producers through advance contracts.   GOF has
also assumed responsibility for planning the feed needs of the livestock sector
and the allocation of feed resources. GOF warehouses, both existing and under
construction, have a storage capacity of 245,000 tons of grain in sacks. In
addition, cooperative warehouses provide space for about 155,000 tons, giving
a combined total storage capacity of 400,000 tons of feed (Map 11912).
2.16      The General Organization for Trade and Processing of Cereals purchases
wheat and barley, through its collection points, at fixed prices and operates
flour mills. It is the public sector source of barley and the sole source of
wheat bran used as animal feed.
2.17      The National Feed Policy Committee (NFPC) discusses, approves and
submits general feed policy guidelines to the Minister of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform for issue as ministerial decisions. NFPC also discusses and
makes recommendations on feed prices to the Council of Ministers for Economic
Affairs. The Committee is composed of the heads or their representatives of
all Government departments and parastatal organizations concerned with the
production, marketing or consumption of feed and is chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture or his deputy.



D. Agricultural Credit
2.18      The role of institutional credit in the livestock sector is very
limited at present (Annex 2).  The main source of lending for agricultural
producars, ACB, has in recent years made no loans for feed or feeder stock
purchases. Only a few loans were made for acquisition of breeding and dairy
stock and for the establishment of irrigated forage crops, totalling about
USS2 million, or 4' of its total lending. ACB lending rates are 4% to coopera-
tives and 5.5% to private producers or. loans for all durations and all purposes.
The bank has a good repayment record due to its stringent security requirements.
2.19      The only other source of institutional credit for livestock pro-
ducers is the NFRF which, since its creation in 1965, has grown to some LS 10.1
million at the end of 1974, with support of both WFP and the Government.  NFRF
makes available to members of livestock cooperatives short-term loans for feed
purchases and to the cooperatives long-term loans for the construction of feed
storage facilities. Feed loans are interest free and storage construction
loanscarrv a one-time service charge of 1% to encourage sheep producers to
join cooperatives. In 1974, NFRF lent LS 3.1 million for feed loans while
another LS 2.4 million was disbursed for storage construction. Demand for
feed loans, however, greatly exceeded available lending resources and credit
was rationed by decreasing the number of loans made or reducing the financing
percentage of individual feed needs.
2.20      Private traders continue to be the major source of credit in the
livestock sector, offerin- deferred payment facilities at annual interest
rates of 10 to 25% under normal conditions. The Meat Bureau of the General
SuDply Institution, a public sector organization supplying the Damascus market,
provides credit for fattening animals in the form of advance payments under
supplv contracts, with delivery prices negotiated in advance.
E.  Government Livestock Programs
2.21      The current 5-Year Plan, 1971-1975, has as a general objective the
raising of livestock production through, inter alia, expanded veterinarv
services, increased feed availability, improved extension services and the
provision of additional credit for livestock development purposes. Under the
plan, meat, milk and egg production is expected to increase 32, 23 and 67%,
respectively. It appears unlikely that any of these targets will be reached
with thie possible exception of the latter. A livestock development plan drafted
in 1V73, but not officially approved, contains the general lines of development
as envisaged by the Government to 1980. The plar calls for a tripling of meat
and milk nroduction from cattle while meat and milk output from the sheep sub-
sector is expected to increase 2.5 ard 4 times respectively. Broiler produc-
tion would triple and the number of layers increase 7-fold.



- 6 -
2.22      With the help of a loan from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development and bilateral assistance the Government is proceeding with the
construction of several large state dairy farms together with a number of
heifer rearing and bull fattening stations. Each state farm will accommodate
600 imported dairv cows while the total annual throughput of the rearing and
fattening stations will be 10,600 head and 5,500 head respectively. Two arti-
ficial insemination centers for cattle and a 200-head quarantine station are
also being developed. The Government is in the process of organizing some
120 dairy cooperatives. In 1974 about 3,500 dairy animals were imported and
distributed to private and state farms. Large scale developments with bila-
teral assistance are also underway in the poultry field with the aim of in-
creasing broiler and egg production by 40 million and 350 million annually.
2.23      Government efforts to increase production from sheep, and parti-
cularly from the nomadic and semi-nomadic flocks, are continuing with assist-
ance from the WFP and UNDP. Special attention has been given to the estab-
lishment of sheep fattening cooperatives and sheep and range cooperatives and
to increasing the availabilitv of feed through the growing of fodder crops on
fallow land (recently with USAID assistance) and the establishment of fodder
shrubs in the steppe for emergency feeding. The WFP has provided over US$2
million worth of food aid for these activities.
F. Previous Bank Project in Agriculture
2.24      In March 1974, the Bank approved a US$73 million loan and credit
for the Balikh Irrigation Project, which consists of development of irrigated
agriculture over 45,000 ha in the Balikh River Basin and the resettlement of
farmers displaced by the filling of Lake Assad. The project suffers from sub-
stantial delays in implementation and cost overruns. The first three civil
works contracts have been awarded. In view of the greatly increased cost of
the project, the plan for its financing is now being reviewed.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project aims at increasing and stabilizing the production of
and income from the sheep subsector throughout Syria, through the strengthen-
ing of national feed policy, the increased use of supplementary feed, and the
reinforcement of the animal health services.
3.02      The project would complement the national emergency feed reserve,
to be established, operated and wholly financed by the Government. The es-
tablishment of the emergency feed reserve would provide subsistence rations,
consisting mostly of feed grains co sheep producers in drought years, in order
to reduce the losses from the national sheep flock. Details on the emergency
feed reserve are in Annex 3.



-7-
B.  Description
3.03      The project elements, more fully described below and in Annex 3 and
4, are:
(a)  strengthening of the  organizational framework including NFPC,
GOF, NFRF and ACB, to be responsible for defining and imple-
menting feed policies aiming at optimizing, on a national
basis, the use of available feed materials and feed storage
facilities;
(h) provision of financing for the annual purchased feed needs
of sheep cooperatives, while permitting the establishment of
12 new sheep and range cooperatives as well as of 12 new
sheep fattening cooperatives;
(c) reinforcement of the animal health services of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform;
(d) execution of a study of feed prices; and
(e) execution of a study of manpower requirements and staff
training needs in the animal health field.
3.04      The feed resources problem has to be approached on a national basis
given the competing demands of different subsectors as well as export demand
for available supplies. The Government has recognized the need to think in
terms of a national feed development scheme to ensure that through reducing
the strong seasonal and inter-annual fluctuations in supplies and prices, all
livestock producers (State farms, cooperative and private sector operators)
can satisfy their feed requirements at reasonable prices. The organizational
framework for feed allocation to be developed under the project would include
the NFPC with a secretariat (para 4.02), and the existing GOF, NFRF and ACB.
Within this framework, a national plan for the distribution of feed resources
would be drawn up annually in line with domestic availabilities, storage
capacities, and policy objectives. It would also serve to define and modify
national feed policy including decisions on feed prices and imports and exports.
Under the project, technical assistance would be provided in three crucial
areas through the attachment to the Committee's secretariat of a price policy
adviser, a feed distribution adviser, and a cost accounting adviser.
3.05      The financing to be provided for annual purchased feed would provide
for the major needs of the existing sheep cooperatives and the new ones to be
established through NFRF. The total annual financing needs for feed of the
cooperatives would be for the purchase of about 243,000 tons, on credit made
available under the project to NFRF.



-- 8 -
3.06      Within the NFFC's secretariat's terms of reference a stuldy would be
carried out by a task force of Government officials appointed by the committee
and chaired by the executive secretary of the committee to review feed prices
and the feed/meat price relationships, paving particular attention to present
price distortions, and to make recommendations for a more rational feed price
policy (para 4.02). During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that a study would be carried out to review feed price policy,
that the terms of reference of the study would be drawn tip in consultation with
the Bank, that the restults of the study and its recommendations would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review before June 30, 1977, and that the Bank would be
informed of the proposed program to implement these recommendations and that
the imDlementation would be initiated before December 31, 1977.
3.07      The Animal Health Department of MAAR would be strengthened under
the project to improve disease control for sheep and provide improved health
services to cattle and poultry based on private farms. This would entail
the provision of equipment and technical assistance (a laboratory equipment
adviser) for ungrading the vaccine production capability of the Central
Veterinarv Laboratory, equipment and vehicles for veterinary field centers and
mobile teams, sheen dipping centers, pharmaceuticals, (insecticides and anthel-
mintics) and incremental operating expenditures for vehicles and laboratory
staff.
3.08      Present Government planning for staffing can be expected to lead to
an imbalance between graduate veterinarians and other animal health workers.
In conjunction with the investment efforts to strengthen the Animal Health
Services, a study should be made, if necessary with outside assistance, to
find ways to correct this misallocation of resources. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the Government that it would undertake a study
of the manpower requirements and training needs for staff in the animal health
area, and that this study, of which the terms of reference would be drawn up
in consultation with Bank, would be completed and sent to the Bank for review
by June 30, 1977, and that the proposed program to implement the recommendations
of the study would be communicated to the Bank and that implementation would
commence before December 31, 1977.
C. Cost Estimates
3.09      Total project cost is estimated at US$34.5 million equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies. The foreign exchange component is US$10.3 million or
30% of total project cost.  The cost  of financing the annual feed needs of
cooperatives is based on the requirements for each type of sheep production
and on the projected number of animals to be included in the project. The
costs of the animal health services component are based on projected require-
ments and on unit rates obtained from current contracts in Syria or from sup-
Pliers.  The base cost has been adjusted to end-1975 price levels.  Physical
contingencies included are 10%, of the cost of the animal health component and
52/ of the cost of technical assistance. Price contingencies, which total
13.5Y of base cost plus physical contingencies, were compounded at the follow-
ing annual rates for equipment and feed, 12° for 1975, 10% for 1976. 8" for
1977-79 and 7%' for 1980 onwards, and for civil works and consultants, 16%h, 14%,
12% and 10a,, respectively.



- 9 -
3.10      The foreign exchange cost of financing the cooperatives' annual
feed needs is defined as the indirect foreign exchange element in the produc-
tion and marketing costs of these feeds, estimated at 17%.
3.11      Detailed cost estimates are in Annex 5, and are summarized below.
Discrepancies are due to rounding.
Project Costs
% Foreign
LS million             U$S million       Exchange
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  ComRp onent
A. Cooperatives'
annual feed
needs                  75.3   15.4   90.7    20.5    4.2   24.7       17
B. Animal health
services                4.0   13.2   17.2      1.1    3.6    4.7      77
C. Technical
assistance              0.3    1.5    1.8      0.1    0.4    0.5      80
Subtotal              79.6   30.1  109.7    21.7    8.2   29.9       27
D. Contingency
allowances
1. Physical con-
tingencies
(1.7%)               0.4    1.4    1.8       0.1    0.4    0.5
2. Price increases
(13.51%)             8.8    6.2   15.0       2.4    1.7    4.1
Total Project Cost   88.8   37.7  126.5    24.2   10.3   34.5        30
D.  Financing
3.12      The Bank loan of US$5.0 million together with a Third Window loan
of US$12.5 million would finance 51% of total project cost. Bank financing
would cover the total foreign exchange cost plus 30% of local cost of the
project. The Bank loan would be made for a 20-year term including 5 years
of grace, and the Third W'indow loan would be on standard terms. The borrower
would be the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic.
3.13      Through budgetary allocations, the Government would make the neces-
sary resources available to NFRF to enable it to make loans to members of sheep
cooperatives for the purchase of 243,000 tons of feed annually. The cost of
this is currently estimated at US$19.7 millior equivalent.  These loans
would finance 80% of the cost of purchased feed, leaving 20% (US$5.5 million)



- 10 -
for self financing by the cooperatives' members.  NFRF would le.v an irterest
charge of 7.5%Y. and 5.5% per annum on beneficiaries denendTn> on the income
levels of the loan applicants and would use the irterest payments to expand
its feed loan operations.  The lower rate would anDly to bereficiaries with
net annual incomes below LS 3,500, in 1976 prices, which is less than 30% of
the average national family income (para 4.10).  The proposed interest rates
would be a major advance and would be an accentable first step in. a rational-
ization of agricultural interest rates.  Presentlv  loans extended by NTFRF
are interest free. Furthermore, the national agricultural credit institution
(ACB) presently lends to the cooperative sector at an interest rate of 4.5%
per annum.
3.14      The animal health services component of the project would be financed
through annual budgetary allocations to MAAR's Animal Health Department, total-
ling an estimated US$4.9 million equivalent over 5 years.
3.15      The technical assistance component of the project would be financed
through (a) budgetary allocations to MAAR totalling US$0.44 million equivalent,
for the consultant to the Animal Health Department (para 3.07) and the three
consultants to the executive secretariat of the NFPC (para 3.04), and (b) a
Government grant to GOF for financing the cost of the feed stock management
consultant.
3.16      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that it (a) would make budgetary allocations available to NFRF covering the
total resource requirements for the annual financing to members of sheep
cooperatives of purchased feed, totalling about 243,000 tons; (b) would require
NFRF to levy an interest charge of 7.5% and 5.5% (the lower rate for farmers
with net annual incomes below LS 3,500) on feed loans, the revenue of which
would be used to increase NFRF's lending operations; (c) would make available
to MAAR's Animal Health Department a total of US$4.9 million equivalent over
5 years through annual budgetary allocations to meet both the foreign and
local currency cost of the project's animal health services component and the
laboratory equipment consultant; (d) would make available to MAAR US$0.32 mil-
lion equivalent over 3 years through annual budgetary allocations to finance
the cost of three consultants to the executive secretariat of NFPC; and (c)
would provide a grant to GOF covering the cost of the feed stock management
consultant.
3.17      The project's financing plan is as follows:



- 11 -
Cooperatives'      Animal     Technical  Contin-
Annual Feed        Health    Assistance  gencies
Needs         Services/i                         Total
… ------------------ US$ million equivalent ----------
Members of Cooperatives       5.0               -           -          0.5      5.5
Government                    8.4              1.6         0.1         1.4     11.5
IBRD                         11.3               3.1        0.4         2.7 /2  17.5
Total Project Cost           24.7              4.7         0.5         4.6      34.5
/1   Beneficiaries would in year 4 and 5 contribute US$1.6 million through
recovery of drug expenses.
/2   This would form the unallocated category.
E.  Implementation
3.18      The project would be completed in 5 years and its full development
would be attained in about 8 years. The project implementation schedule is
shown in Chart 15363.
3.19      The cooperatives' annual needs for purchased feed have been based
on the 1975 estimated needs and allow for a 10% increase in 1976 and 5% increases
for 1977-80, due to enlarged membership as well as a larger number of animals
per member.
3.20      During negotiations the Government undertook to establish, as from
the date of effectiveness of the loan, over a period of 3 years and to maintain
thereafter an emergency feed reserve to provide adequate feed resources to sheep
producers during drought years. It was further agreed that GOF would appoint
(a) a Director, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank,
to be solely responsible for the establishment and operation of the emergency
feed reserve, and (b) a feed stock management adviser whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Bank. These appointments would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
Details on the emergency feed reserve are in Annex 3.
3.21      For the animal health component the investment expenditures are
expected to be incurred almost entirely in the first and second years. Expen-
ditures for pharmaceuticals, however, would gradually increase to reach a maxi-
mum in the fourth year. Operating expenses are assumed to be constant over
the implementation period.
3.22      Technical assistance to be provided to the NFPC secretariat, the
Animal Health Department and GOF is scheduled for the first two years of the
project.



- 12 -
3.23      Procurement.  Vehicles required for the animal health component would
he procured under international competitive biddirg ir accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement'. Equipment required for the animal health
component would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, under procedures acceptable to the Bank, or if international shopping
is found more appropriate on the basis of at least three quotations from over-
seas suppliers. Pharmaceuticals would be procured through international shop-
ping on the basis of at least three quotations from overseas suppliers. The
feed purchased with the aid of NFRF financing would be procured by the sheep
cooperatives through existing private and public trade channels. Cortracts for
the construction of sheep dipping centers (total cost USSO.6 million) would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, following a
review by the Bank of the bidding documents. The requirements for vehicles,
equipment and pharmaceuticals would be grouped as far as practicable in order
to ensure effective competition for procurement. The list of goods to be
procured is in Annex 6.
3.24      Storage Facilities and Stock Management.  A tentative least cost
system of total feed movements is given in Chart 15309. Sheep cooperatives
have adequate storage capacity to accommodate the needs of their members for
seasonal purchased feed. A problem of rodent and insect infestation exists at
present in the storage facilities of GOF and of the cooperatives. During nego-
tiations, an assurance was obtained that GOF and MAAR would, by December 31,
1976 at the latest, submit to the Bank for comments plans for rodent and insect
control in the warehouses operated by GOF and the sheep cooperatives, respec-
tively, and that these plans would be implemented no later than June 30, 1977.
F. Disbursements
3.25      The proposed loan would reimburse 51% of total project cost over
5-3/4 years as follows:
(a) 57% of gross disbursements made by NFRF until December 31,
1976, and thereafter of annual incremental gross disburse-
ments of feed loans to members of sheep cooperatives;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures or 70% of local expenditures
for equipment, pharmaceuticals and vehicles for animal
health services; and
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for consultants' services.
3.26      The proposed schedule of capital expenditures (Annex 5) is summarized
below. An estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 7.



- 13 -
Syrian Fiscal
Year              1976     1977      1978     1979    1980    1981   Total
…US$ million 
Local Expenditures    5.8      9.5       5.5       1.2      1.1    1.1    24.2
Foreign Expenditures  1.4      4.4       2.0       1.2      0.9    0.4    10.3
Total             7.2    13.9       7.5       2.4      2.0    1.5    34S.5
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
The National Feed Development Scheme
4.01      The organizational components of the feed development part of the
project would be:
-    the National Feed Policy Committee, with a secretariat
to be established;
-    the General Organization for Feed;
-    the National Feed Revolving Fund;
-    The Animal Production Department of MAAR; and
-    the Agricultural Cooperative Bank.
4.02      The Secretariat of the National Feed Policy Committee.  Under the
project, a small permanent secretariat would be created under the executive
secretary of the NFPC. The executive secretary would be a full-time staff
member of MAAR directly attached to the office of the Minister. The qualifica-
tions and experience required and the functions to be performed are outlined
in Annex 8. The secretariat would formulate proposals and clear and coordinate
proposals from other organizational units in the feed/livestock sector to be
placed before the Committee. In particular, the secretariat would concern
itself with the establishment and periodic review of general feed policy guide-
lines, the preparation of annual national estimates of the sources and distri-
bution of feed, export/import decisions, and the size of emergency feed reserve.
During the initial years the secretariat would be reinforced by three consul-
tants provided under the project. These consultants would include a price
policy adviser, a feed distribution adviser and a cost accounting adviser. The
price policy adviser would review feed prices and the feed/meat price relation-
ship, paying particular attention to present price distortions, and would offer
general guidance for a more rational price policy; in doing so he would work
closely with the Government's task force set up to carry out the study of feed
prices to be undertaken as part of the project (para 3.06); the feed distribu-
tion adviser would assist in the preparation of at least two annual plans for



- 14 -
feed distribution to the various user categories; the cost accounting adviser
would introduce cost accounting and analysis in state enterprises operating
in the feed sector such as GOF and the General Organization for Trade and
Processing of Cereals. Draft terms of reference for these consultants are
given in Annex 8. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that (a) MAAR would establish not later than October 31, 1976
within NFPC an adequately staffed secretariat headed by an executive secretary
whose qualifications and experience would be acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
MAAR would employ four consultants i.e. a price policy adviser, a feed distri-
bution adviser and a cost accounting adviser for the secretariat of NFPC, and
a laboratory equipment adviser for the Animal Health Department (para 3.07).
The appointment of the executive secretary of NFPC and that of the price
policy adviser, the feed distribution adviser, the cost accounting adviser
and the laboratory equipment adviser would be conditions of effectiveness of
the loan.
4.03      The National Feed Revolving Fund.  Under the project, NFRF would
continue to be responsible for financing the annual purchased feed needs of
sheep cooperatives. The Sheep and Range Section of MAAR's Animal Production
Department, which is responsible for NFRF's day-to-day operations, would need
to be reinforced to carry out its expanded technical responsibilities. This
refers particularly to the establishment of the 12 new range cooperatives
and 12 new sheep fattening cooperatives, the provision of adequate guidance
on appropriate stocking rates and range utilization of both the 14 existing
range cooperatives and the new cooperatives to be formed under the project,
and to the establishment and implementation of 3 monitoring programs (paras
4.18-4.20). There is also a need for strengthening the accounting capability
of NFRF commensurate with the major increase in its lending activity going
from LS 3.1 million for feed loans in 1974 to an expected LS 91 million in
1980. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained to this effect.
4.04      The General Organization for Feed. GOF would be responsible for the
establishment and operation of the emergency feed reserve, including the pro-
curement of feed grain, through the General Organization for Trade and Pro-
cessing of Cereals, its storage and distribution and sale to end users.
Details on the emergency feed reserve are in Annex 3.
4.05      The Animal Production Department of NAAR.  Besides its responsibility
for NFRF, the Animal Production Department would be the principal source of
technical information for the NFPC. It would also make the technical decision
on when and where the conditions are met for distribution of emergency feed.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the Animal Production
Department, through MAAR's provincial services, would monitor the shortfall
of available feed required by sheep producers.
4.06      The Agricultural Cooperative Bank. ACB would continue as banking
agent for the NFRF. ACB is well-managed and has an adequate staff to carry
out the additional operations generated by the project. It has branch offices
within reach of all cooperatives and it has an established procedure for deal-
ing with them on NFRF feed loans.



- 15 -
Animal Health Services
4.07      The Director of the Animal Health Department of MAAR would be re-
sponsible for the implementation of the animal health project component. The
veterinary field service would be organized in 56 mobile teams each with the
necessary staff, vehicles, equipment, and pharmaceuticals. The Central Labora-
tory would supply adequate quantities of vaccines. During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained from Government that in the event adequate quantities of
vaccine should not be produced by the Central Veterinary Laboratory, the Gov-
ernment would provide such quantities of vaccine from external sources.
4.08      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government
would cause MAAR and the other agencies responsible for carrying out the
project to cooperate effectively in implementing the project.
B. Credit and Cost Recovery
NFRF Financing of Cooperatives Annual Feed Needs
4.09      Through NFRF the project would provide short-term credit to members
of sheep and range and fattening cooperatives for purchased feed. Total re-
volving fund requirements are estimated at US$19.7 million, based on 80% of
the full annual needs of farm and range sheep and of two-thirds of the annual
needs of fattened sheep, the latter on the premise that repayment of the loan
for the first fattening batch would allow financing of the third batch. This
leaves 20% of feed costs for self-financing. The procedure for NFRF's dealing
with sheep cooperatives and the role of ACB as NFRF's banking agent is well
established and would continue to be followed under the project. NFRF would
continue to bear the credit risk. During negotiations an assurance was ob-
tained that NFRF would be the exclusive source of institutional financing of
feed, except for emergency feed, for the members of sheep cooperatives.
4.10      The existing credit terms need to be hardened to reflect the fact
that a sector-wide demand for purchased feed is now well established and no
longer needs to be encouraged by highly subsidized credit. Under the project,
beneficiaries of NFRF loans would pay an interest charge of 7.5% per annum.
Cooperative members with an annual family income of less than LS 3,500 (in
1976 prices), which is below the relative poverty level, would receive loans
at 5.5% interest per annum, provided that they can show evidence of such
income levels satisfactory to NFRF on the basis of criteria acceptable to the
Bank. These criteria are to be established by a study, undertaken by the Gov-
ernment on terms of reference prepared in consultation with the Bank, of the
pre-project income and credit situation of members of sheep cooperatives.
Until these criteria have been established, members of sheep and range coop-
eratives will be considered eligible for the 5.5% interest rates if they hold
less than 60 ewes, and members of sheep fattening cooperatives if they fatten
less than 255 sheep per year. On the basis of the income and credit monitoring
studies (para 4.20), the Government and the Bank will review, not later than
July 30, 1978, the need for the preferential interest rate (5.5%) and the need
for a revision of the LS 3,500 income level criterion. During negotiations
assurances were obtained to this effect.



- 16 -
4.11      No administrative costs would be charged by MAAR to borrowers as
those of NFRF would be small and corsist of part-time use of technical staff
of "AAR's Animal Production Department. These costs are similar to those
incurred by the crop extension service for the technical assessment of loan
applications to ACB and for which no charge is made. The existing arrange-
ment between NFRF and ACB whereby ACB pays 1.5% annual interest on the posi-
tive balance in NFRF's account, rather than the usual demand deposit rate of
4% per annum, would continue to meet ACB disbursement and collection costs
for NFRF loans. Loan repayments would go back to the revolving fund for the
following year's operation and the revenues of the service charge would be
used to expand the fund's loan operations.
Animal Health Services
4.12      To ensure continued success of this project component after the
implementation period, it would be necessary to ask the beneficiaries to repay
the cost of vaccines and pharmaceuticals. Availability of budgetary means
would be a serious constraint to continuation of drug treatments on the scale
envisaged by the project. Therefore, the veterinary services would, after a
3-year period of gratis treatment for demonstration and incentive reasons, re-
quire a 50% repayment of drug costs in the fourth year and full payment from
the fifth year onward.  The funds thus collected would, at the end of the
fifth year, constitute a revolving fund, to be established in MAAR under the
control of the Director of the Animal Health Department. This fund would be
used exclusively for the purchase of new pharmaceuticals and the production
of new vaccines.
4.13      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) beneficiaries of veterinary services would pay for the full
cost of pharmaceuticals and vaccines after a 3-year demon-
stration period at the rate of 50% of cost during the fourth
project year and 100% from the fifth project year onward; and
(b) the funds thus collected would be placed in a revolving fund
administered by MAAR's Director of Animal Health and used
exclusively to purchase pharmaceuticals and manufacture
vaccines.
C. Accounts and Audit
4.14      NFRF.  The accounting capability of NFRF would be strengthened
and an assurance to that effect was obtained during negotiations (para 4.03).
NFRF would establish a separate project account showing loan disbursements
and repayments by type of sheep cooperative as well as expenses incurred in
administration of the project funds.



- 17 -
4.15      MAAR.  Separate accounts would be established for the animal health
services project component and for the Drug Revolving Fund to be established
at the beginning of the fourth project year.
4.16      During negotiations the Bank obtained assurances that (a) no later
than October 31, 1976 separate project accounts would be established in NFRF,
GOF and MAAR, (b) these accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and (c) these accounts together with the audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank within 4 months of the end of each fiscal year.
A further assurance was obtained that a separate account be kept in MAAR's
Animal Health Department for the Drug Revolving Fund to be established at the
beginning of the fourth project year which would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
D. Monitoring
4.17      Under the project the number of animals held by members of sheep
and range cooperatives is expected to double by about 1980, going from 0.76
million to 1.6 million head. This would bring roughly 40% of the range sheep
population and about 20% of the total steppe area under control of the coop-
eratives.
4.18      By legislative action each cooperative is allocated a specific
geographic area over which it has control with respect to sheep numbers carried
and grazing systems followed. With the project, the productive potential of
these areas would materially improve relative to that of the steppe in general.
The extent to which such improvement occurs can only be determined by examining
over a period of several years the vegetation trends in representative range
areas utilized by the cooperatives. Agreement to carry out such studies has
been reached between the Sheep and Range Section of MAAR's Animal Production
Department and the Range Section of the University of Aleppo. To date this
agreement has not been implemented. This would permit the establishment of
baseline data which are essential for evaluating future progress. During loan
negotiations, assurances were obtained that by June 30, 1977 MAAR would imple-
ment a system, acceptable to the Bank, which would effectively monitor the
vegetative changes in the range areas used by the sheep and range cooperatives.
4.19      In the past, range and sheep cooperatives have been provided concen-
trates through WFP-assisted projects. While it is generally recognized that
this increased availability of feed has had a favorable effect on animal pro-
ductivity, no empirical data are available showing the extent of this effect
or how it has been brought about, thereby providing a check on the assumptions
underlying the project benefit estimates. Under the project, purchased feed
would continue to be provided annually to the same and additional cooperatives.
It is recommended that the Sheep and Range Section of MAAR seek the cooperation
of the Animal Producon Department of the University of Aleppo, or the Arab
League Arid Zone Center, in carrying out field studies, utilizing sampling
techniques, designed to determine the effect of feeding purchased concentrates
on the production of sheep belonging to members of sheep and range cooperatives.
The studies would measure, inter alia, changes in breeding performance, mortality



- 18 -
rates and growth rates. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that no
later than December 31, 1977, MAAR would in consultation with the Bank, initiate
such studies.
4.20      Furthermore, studies would be undertaken by the Government, under
the project, of the provision of credit to members of both fattening and sheep
and range cooperatives. These studies would include:
(a)  a survey of the pre-project income situation and of the avail-
ability of credit for the purchase of feed from existing
sources, as well as the terms and conditions of such credit.
This study, the terms of reference of which would be prepared
in consultation with the Bank, would be carried out before
December 31, 1976, and the results made available to the Bank.
It would include recommendations for criteria to be used by NFRF
in determining which members of the cooperatives are eligible
for obtaining feed loans at the preferential interest rate of
5.5% per annum;
(b) a quarterly monitoring of the income levels and of the avail-
ability and cost of credit would provide information about
the debt service burden and debt service payment capacity
of members of the cooperatives. The terms of reference of
this monitoring exercise would be prepared in consultation
with the Bank and the results would be incorporated in the
quarterly progress reports on the project to be submitted to
the Bank.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      In conjunction with the Government-financed emergency feed reserve,
which would prevent the decimation of flocks now occurring in drought years,
the project would lead to a major increase in output of the national sheep
flock. Through the provision of adequate financing of purchased feed the proj-
ect would provide incentives for fattening for about twice the number of animals
fattened at present, strengthen the recent trend of providing supplementary
winter feed to animals on the range, and increase the availability of grazing
resources to range sheep. The strengthening of animal health services would
consolidate the gains in sheep flock stabilization by sharply reducing the
losses in livestock and production resulting from preventable infectious dis-
eases and parasites.
5.02      The overall production effect of the project and the emergency feed
reserve in an average rainfall year at full development, about 1983, is derived
in Annex 9 and summarized below:



- 19 -
Present     Full Development       Increase With
Iterm                                Without        With      over Without
Protect      Prpject       Proiect
thousand ton ---------                  ()
Lamb/Mutton (liveweight)          81.2        88.6        148.4          67
Milk                             144.1       148.8        198.4          33
Wiool (greasv)                    12.2        13.5         14.8          10
Over the develonnent period the production increase attributable to the
project and the emergency feed reserve represent average annual growth rates
of 8% for meat, 4% for milk and 2.5% for wool. Incremental production, valued
at economic prices, would amount to US$75.4 million at full development com-
pared with a total production of USS139 million without the project and the
emergency feed reserve.
B. Markets
5.03      syrian foreign trade statistics show the country as a net importer
of fresh and frozen meat and the State Planning Commission has estimated
the import gap for 1974 at 20,000 tons, carcass weight equivalent, out of a
total consumption of 107,000 tons. Indications of significant illegal border
crossings of animals into Syria from Turkey and Iraq, and out of Syria into
Lebanon and Jordan cast doubt on the realism underlying these figures. Never-
theless, these indications confirm that a sizeable export demand exists,
particularly for fattened sheep, in Lebanon and Jordan which is far from
being satisfied. Occasionally, the Government has imposed volume controls
on meat exports and has even banned exports in an effort to relieve pressure
on domestic meat prices.
5.04      Domestic demand for meat is determined by the high rate of popula-
tion growth, rising income levels, and the pronounced consumer preference for
lamb and mutton. The recent phenomenon of cheap poultrv meat increasing its
market share at the expense of mutton is expected to be temporary in view of
rising feed prices on the world market on which Syria's poultrv industry would
largely depend. Under these circumstances, it is likely that the growth rate
of the poultry industry would decline. The supply of beef from on-going
development efforts in the dairv subsector is not expected to pose a threat
to demand for mutton. The existing market for imported frozen beef is limited
and could in the future be supplied with the culled animals from the dairy
subsector. Moreover, the Beirut market and Syria's expanding hotel and
tourist trade offer an assured outlet for baby beef.
5.05      The incremental milk production resulting from the project and the
emergency feed reserve would make a welcome contribution to reducing the large
import gap for milk and milk products which currently is valued at about US$17.5
million. The additional wool output would be absorbed by the domestic market,
notably in the expanding manufacture of both handknotted and machine-made
carrets, and by exports.



- 20 -
5.06      In summary, no marketing difficulties are anticipated for the incre-
mental production generated.
C. Prices
5.07      Prices for livestock and meat are free except for meat supply to
the Damascus urban market where administrative prices apply set in agreement
with the General Supply Institution. Concentrate feeds handled by the public
sector are priced by the Government, often below export market prices. How-
ever, barley prices have been set above world market price levels since 1973/
74.  Price relationships between various tvnes of feed and between feeds and
meat are distorted, leading to inefficient utilization of some feed resources
because of the coexistence of excess supply and a ban on exports. The price
policv adviser, provided under the project would advise the task force, led
by NFPC, in reviewing these price relationships and in defining a price policy
based on efficiency considerations (para 4.02).
5.08      In this report, prices are based on local prices collected during
appraisal. For the economic analysis, these financial prices are adjusted.
if aDDlicable, for local subsidv elements, regional export market conditions,
and for the long-term price projections provided by the Bank's Economic
Analvsis and Projections Department. The actual prices used for the major
commodities are:
Financial            Economic
Price               Price-
----------US $/ton-----------
Meat (liveweight)                           1,360                 1,100
Milk                                          163                   163
Wool (greasy)                               1,088                 1,300
Barley                                        125                   105
D.  Producer Income
5.09      Around 1983, when the full effect of the project and the emergency
feed reserve on the national sheep flock would be felt, the annual net income
of a member family of a range and sheep cooperative, would have increased by
82% over the present level to reach about LS 8,900 (US$2,420). This would
permit these semi-nomadic flock owners to keep pace with the projected growth
in average national income, thereby maintaining their 49% gap. 1/ These
1/   This assumes an average family size of 6.  Present average national in-
come (in 1974 prices) is US$535 per caput. Projected average national
income (in 1974 prices) per caput:  US$740 in 1980 and U1S$950 in 1983.



- 2 1 -
income figures refer to an average rainfall year.  Details of producer income
estimates are given in Annex 10. Of perhaps greater importance than the in-
crease in income expected is the reduced variability in income between years,
and in particular the change from a loss to a profit position in a drought
year.
5.10      Around 1980, when the full effect of the project and the emergency
feed reserve on sheep fattening cooperatives would be felt, the average income
of a member family of a sheep fattening cooperative is expected to increase
by 45%  to LS 6,900 (U,S$1,880). This would raise the income of cooperative
fatteners from 63%'. below the present average national income to 58% below the
proiected average national income for 1980. This increase would derive chiefly
from the stabilization of feed prices and from the resultant higher average
utilization of feedlot capacity.
E. Benefits and Beneficiaries
Benefits
5.11      Primarv benefits, i.e. benefits that have been quantified for the
economic analysis of the project and the related emergency feed reserve, would
be (a) the overall increase in sheep production during average and good rainfall
years through credit availability and stabilized feed prices which would result
from the financing of the sheep cooperatives' annual feed needs; (b) the pre-
vention of major losses in productive potential of flocks and the increase in
overall production which would result from the availability of feed in drought
years through the emergency feed reserve; and (c) the overall rise in flock
productivity and reduction in mortality rates which would result from the
strengthening of animal health services.
5.12      The secondary benefits of the project, and of the emergency feed
reserve, which are not expressed in the economic rate of return, would never-
theless be real and quite substantial. Producer incomes would be stabilized,
thus reducing the degree of flock owners' indebtedness to private money
lenders. Furthermore, in the economic analysis only benefits derived from
the sheep subsector have been taken into account. Nevertheless, it is certain
that the feed price stabilization and the improved veterinary services would
provide important benefits to other livestock subsectors.
5.13      Another major secondary benefit would be the project's support to
the viability of existing and the establishment of new cooperatives in the
livestock sector. The success of cooperatives in this sector would boost the
Government's effort to effectively extend services to small operators in other
sectors of agriculture. The project would contribute to the success of the
pioneer effort of organizing semi-nomads in order to open a channel for pro-
viding Government services and to make them directly responsible for a more
rational management of range resources.



- 22 -
5.14      Finally, the experience gained from this project, but particularly
the results obtained from operating the emergency feed reserve, would be of
great value to other countries in the Middle East and North Africa.
Beneficiaries
5.15      The principal beneficiaries of the project would be the bedouin and
semi-nomadic flock owners, members of the sheep and range cooperatives. Under
the project, their number would increase from 11,400 at present to 24,000 by
1980, thus covering two-thirds of the bedouin flock owners. They control 1.6
million sheep or about 40% of the total range sheep population and 25% of the
national sheep flock. They would be assured of supplementary feed, which
would qualify for short-term institutional financing.
5.16      The number of sheep fatteners benefitting from the project is ex-
pected to increase from about 1,600 at present to 2,800 by the end of project
implementation. While fatteners generally are not among the poorest of the
agricultural population, those who belong to cooperatives are as a.rule less
well off than others.
5.17      Given the average income of the beneficiaries, around US$1,300
(Annex 10), and the relative poverty level of about US$1,070 for a family of
6, a significant proportion of the beneficiaries has an income below the
relative poverty level.
5.18      All bedouin flock owners (estimated at 35,000), and to a lesser
extent all sheep fatteners, would benefit from the Government's emergency
feed reserve. This would protect them from extreme variability in income
from year to year and from, an often, perpetual indebtedness to merchants.
F. Economic Evaluation
5.19      At appraisal, the sheep production part of the project was seen as
an integral package of three interdependent components, viz., the provision
of subsistence feed rations during drought years (the emergency feed reserve),
the provision of credit for the annual requirements of purchased feed of mem-
bers of sheep cooperatives, and the strengthening of the animal health ser-
vices to reduce the losses in livestock and animal production. The total
impact of this package would be greater than the sum of the parts. Conse-
quently, no consideration was given to the effect that the project components,
taken separately, might have on sheep production. Therefore, in the economic
analysis of the project as appraised no attempt was made to estimate the
viability of the separate components.
5.20      The quantifiable economic benefits of the project and the inter-
related emergency feed reserve, when compared with total investment and
incremental operating costs, give rise to an economic rate of return of 21%
(Annex 11).  This return is based on economic prices for both output and cost
items and on a 20-year project life.



- 23 -
5.21      Sensitivity tests run on the basic assumptions indicate that even
if operating cost increased bv 10% simultaneously with a 15% decline in
incremental output, the rate of return would not fall below 9%.
5.22      An analysis was also undertaken of an alternative for the emergency
feed reserve of domestically produced feed grain. This alternative would
consist of feed grain exports in surplus years and imports in deficit years.
The leadtime required to procure (i.e. locating supplies, placing order,
shipping, and clearing through port) and distribute imported feed grain to
flock owners in the areas affected by drought was estimated at a minimum of
two to three months. To be effective, however, the emergency feed distribu-
tion must commence immediately following the identification and declaration
of a drought. As the imported feed grain could not be available to end users
within two to three months after the onset of a drought, and since by that
time the need for such feed grain would have ceased, this alternative was
rejected.
VI.  AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECONMDENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  NFRF would levy an interest charge of 7.5% and 5.5% (the
lower rate for farmers with net annual incomes below
LS 3,500, in 1976 prices, which is less than 30% of the
average national family income) on feed loans, the reve-
nue of which would be used to increase its lending
operations (para 3.16);
tb)  the Government would establish, as from the date of
effectiveness of the loan, over a period of 3 years and
maintain thereafter an emergency feed reserve to provide
adequate feed resources to sheep producers during drought
years. It was further agreed that GOF would appoint (i)
a Director, with qualifications and experience satis-
factory to the Bank, to be solely responsible for the
establishment and operation of the emergency feed reserve,
and (ii) a feed stock management adviser whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.20);
(c)  MAAR would establish not later than October 31, 1976 within
NFPC an adequately staffed secretariat headed by an exe-
cutive secretary whose qualifications and experience would
be acceptable to the Bank (para 4.02);



- 24 -
(d) the Government would assure an effective coordination between
MAAR and the other agencies responsible for carrying out the
project (para 4.08); and
(e)  a study would be undertaken by the Government, on terms of
reference prepared in consultation with the Bank, of the
pre-project income and credit situation of members of
sheep cooperatives with a view to establishing criteria
providing evidence, acceptable to the Bank, of a family
incone of less than LS 3,500 in order to benefit from the
preferential (5.5%) interest rate on NFRF feed loans
(para 4.10).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan are:
(a) the appointment of the Director of the emergency feed
reserve and of the feed stock management adviser to GOF
(para 3.20);
(b)  the appointment of the executive secretary of NFPC (para 4.02),
(c) the appointment of the price policy adviser, the feed dis-
tribution adviser and the cost accounting adviser to NFPC
(para 4.02); and
(d) the appointment of the laboratory equipment adviser tc
MAAR's Animal Health Department (para 4.02).
6.03      The project is technically feasible, economically sound and finan-
cially viable. Having received the necessary assurances and subject to the
conditions of effectiveness, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$5.0
million equivalent for 20 years including 5 years of grace, and for a Third
Window loan of US$12.5 million equivalent on standard terms. The borrower
would be the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
The Livestock Sector
Importance of Livestock in the Economy
1.        The livestock sector accounts for about 35% of agricultural produc-
tion and contributes approximately 5% to gross domestic production (1970-73,
constant 1963 prices). In 1973 livestock and animal products accounted for
about 6% of the total export earnings.
Production and Trade
2.        Total annual meat production is estimated at 75,000 tons, of which
some 50,000 tons are sheep and goat meat, 15,000 tons beef and 10,000 tons
poultry meat. Output of cow's milk is estimated at 140,000 tons annually,
while sheep and goats produce on average about 170,000 and 30,000 tons per
year respectively.
3.        There is a considerable regional trade in live animals.  Significant
numbers of livestock cross the frontier illegally into Syria from Turkey and
Iraq, and out of Syria to Lebanon and Jordan. Over the period 1967-73, the
recorded number of sheep and goats imported annually averaged about 250,000
head at a total cost of US$3.2 million. Comparable figures for sheep and
goats exported were 389,000 head valued at US$11.2 million. However, a de-
clining trend is evident in the value of the trade surplus in live animals
with a persistent trade deficit, in physical terms, since 1971. Moreover,
the import gap of fresh and frozen meat has been about 33,000 tons per year
over the period 1971-73. Over the same period net exports of cattle averaged
about 37,000 head per year (US$5.7 million). Syria is a net importer of milk
and milk products. The value of net imports which was estimated at US$2.7
million in 1968 rose to US$11.1 million in 1971 and increased to US$17.5 mil-
lion in 1973.
Sheep Production
4.        Importance.  The adult sheep population as recorded at the time of
collecting the annual head tax is about 5.5 million (1967-73 average). Assum-
ing that 15% of the animals are not covered by the tax enumeration, total sheep
numbers are estimated at approximately 6.4 million head. Sheep husbandry is
the most important component of livestock production in Syria, accounting for
more than 65% of all meat produced and about 50% of the total output of milk
and milk products. Total value of sheep production is estimated at about
US$110 million per year, approximately 68% of which comes from meat while



ANNEX 1
Page 2
milk and wool contribute about 25% and 7%, respectively. Some 35,000 bedouin
families depend largely'or wholly on sheep raising for their livelihood, while
most of the countrv's estimated 500,000 farm families raise sheep to supplement
their cash income and family food production. Lamb fattening and the finishing
of cull ewes are important enterprises near the towns located on the fringe of
the range area (Homs, Hama, Deir-ez-Zor) and close to import routes (Aleppo).
5.        Fluctuations in Output.  Since, on average, an estimated 60% of
their total feed intake comes from natural grazing land (steppe and sub-humid
areas), sheep are subject to large inter-annual nutritional fluctuations due
to rainfall variability. This in turn leads to considerable variations in
fertility levels, weaning rates, mortality and productive output. It is re-
ported that lambing rates vary from about 40% in a drought year to 90% in a
good rainfall year, adult mortality rates range from 20% to 5%, and lamb mor-
talities from 20% to 6%. During drought years sheep raisers are forced to
sell breeding stock while in years of good rainfall offtake rates are reduced
in order to rebuild the flocks. The net result of these interrelated factors
is an irregular supply of meat and milk.
6.        Production Systems.  Roughly 60% of the sheep population are bedouin
sheep, the majority of which are tended by semi-nomadic people who may or may
not own the animals. Only a small portion of bedouin sheep are found in truly
nomadic flocks. In years of medium to good rainfall bedouin sheep spend about
9 months in the steppe where they obtain about 75% of their total annual in-
take from range grazing. The other 3 months of the year are spent in the cul-
tivated area grazing cereal stubble and crop residue. During a drought year
the sheep may be in the steppe for no more than 4 months and obtain only about
40% of their total intake from the range (Map IBRD 11912).
7.        Approximately 2.5 million or about 40% of the estimated 6.4 million
sheep are classified as farm sheep. Most of these are owned by farmers in the
relatively densely populated rainfed agriculture areas of western Syria. Com-
pared with bedouin sheep the sheep in these areas obtain a larger proportion
of their total feed from crop residue, fallow land, straw and concentrates.
However, on average, it is estimated that farm sheep spend from 2 months
(drought year) to 7 months (good year) per year on the range. During winter
the sheep graze near the villages and are usually tended by members of the
farmers' families. In the spring when animals are moved to grazing areas some
distance from the villages, flocks of 50-100 head are made up from sheep of
several different farmers and shepherds are hired to tend the flocks.
8.        Government Assistance.  Since the prolonged drought of 1958-60 which
resulted in severe sheep losses, the Government has undertaken programs aimed
at stabilizing sheep production, particularly bedouin sheep, through improved
range management and the provision of extra feed during critical periods. Both
FAO and the World Food Program (WFP) have provided technical and material as-
sistance to the Government in the execution of its proRrams. Initially, emer-
gency and supplementary feed were provided as incentives for deferred and con-
trolled grazing of the range, but since 1967 the WFP-assisted project has been



ANNEX 1
Page 3
based on the establishment of sheep and range cooperatives which provide mem-
bers with supplementarv feed and make collective arrangements for the con-
trolled grazing of allocated range areas and for flock migrations at deter-
mined periods for crop residue grazing. The legislative framework for effec-
tive operation of the sheep and range cooperatives was established by Legisla-
tive Decree No. 140 in 1970 and Law No. 13 in 1973. On the basis of these
acts gradual improvements are to be made in controlling the number of animals
grazing within the range area of a cooperative. Limits are also set on the
number of animals per family for which feed can be obtained through the co-
operative. An important element of this approach to assistance is that re-
sponsibility for proper range utilization and increased sheep production
rests with the community, i.e., the cooperative, rather than with the Gov-
ernment.
9.        Sheep Fattening.  Sheep fattening is a long-established practice,
particularly in western Syria. The practice was originally based on importa-
tion of yearling rams from Turkey and, to a lesser extent, Iraq. However,
over the past decade the fattening of local animals has greatly increased,
primarily as a result of the formation of fattening cooperatives and the
availability to members of credit for the purchase of feed. On average about
1 million animals from the national flock are fattened annually in addition
to approximately 500,000 imported sheep. The degree of utilization of avail-
able feed yard capacity depends on the supply and demand of animals, prices
and availability of feed and expected profit margins. The feeding period is
usually about 90 days and normally 2 to 3 batches of sheep are fattened per
year. Average liveweight gain per head is estimated to range from about 10
kg for cull ewes to 20-25 kg for yearling rams. Traditionally, sheep fatten-
ing rations consisted of cereal and/or legume straw and barley. In recent
years cottonseed cake has become an important feed ingredient and at present
ration composition may vary considerably depending upon the availability and
price of individual feeds.
10.       Research.  Studies on range carrying capacity, sheep management and
sheep selection are carried out at the Wadi El A'azib Range and Sheep Station.
Recently 10 Government Range Sheep Centers have been established to demonstrate
improved systems of range utilization and sheep husbandry, and for the training
of local technicians. In cooperation with the Arab League Arid Zone Research
Center a breeding and selection program with Awassi sheep is underway at Hama
and the Marj El Kreim Center near Selemiye. The program aims first at select-
ing for meat, milk and wool lines within the Awassi breed. Later, exotic
blood is to be introduced in an attempt to raise fertility levels and increase
meat production under intensive management conditions. Lamb fattening experi-
ments are carried out at the University of Aleppo. Also, the Range Section of
the University and the Sheep and Range Section of MAR have agreed to collabor-
ate on a study of the vegetation trends in the grazing areas utilized by the
sheep and range cooperatives.
Cattle and Poultrv Production
11.       The total cattle population is estimated at 500,000 head, some
40.000 of which are reported to be medium- to high-producing dairy animals
of the local Shami breed, often crossed with imported stock, or purebred



ANNEX 1
Page 4
foreign dairy breeds. These animals are found in irrigated areas while the
remaining cattle, consisting of small indigenous low-vielding breeds, are
located in the higher rainfall areas. The small breeds average about 500
kg milk per cow per year while production of higher vieldir. cattle ranges
from about 2,000 kg to 4,000 kg ner lactation.
12.       Poultry numbers have increased considerably in recent years with
the establishment of commercial type poultry farms. Present annual production
is estimated at 10 million chickens and 350 million eggs, of which about 4
million chickens and 250 million eggs are produced by the traditional sector.
The output of poultrv meat amounts to about 10,000 tors yearlv.
Animal Health and Veterinarv Services
13.       The most important infectious diseases of sheep are sheep pox and
anthrax. The incidence of enterotoxemia and pasteurellosis has increased in
recent years. Parasitic diseases, both internal (roundworms, lungworms, tape-
worms and liverfluke) and external (mange, ticks), have a very high incidence.
In cattle both internal and external parasites are very common while foot-
and-mouth disease, rinderpest and blackleg are also important problems. New-
castle disease is the most important poultry ailment.
14.       The Animal Health Department of MAAR is responsible for providing
veterinary services through its central facilities and field offices. There
are about 120 graduate veterinarians in the country; however, only 40 (10 in
central services and 30 in field services) are actually working in the veter-
inary service. The remainder are allocated to other duties or under military
service. About 200 veterinary assistants work in the field. There is a Faculty
of Veterinary Medicine at Hama and a school for training of veterinary assis-
tants in Damascus. Current Government programs call for a very substantial
increase in the number of veterinarians through the expansion of training
facilities at Hama. At the present rate of admission 330 graduates would
be produced annually from 1979 on. Using FAO recommendations for the Middle
East region of one veterinarian per 20,000 head of livestock, 400-500 veter-
inarians would be adequate to serve the country's needs. In contrast, the
number of veterinary assistants, the staff that presumably could perform
most of the routine veterinary tasks, will increase at a much lower rate,
thus creating a ratio between veterinarians and assistants which appears to
be a gross misallocation of resources.
15.       The veterinary field clinics administer about 6 million vaccinations
(covering only 25 to 30% of the sheep population) and treat some 5 million in-
dividual cases (mainly for parasitic diseases) per year. All pharmaceuticals
and vaccines are provided free of charge to livestock owners. Lack of trans-
port facilities and staff prevent the undertaking of systematic disease surveys
and adequate disease control programs. Another constraint is the shortage of
vaccines and drugs due to insufficient budgetary funds and scarcity of foreign
exchange for imports. The Central Veterinary Laboratory produces all the vac-
cines presently used with the exception of those against rinderpest and foot-
and-mouth disease, which are imported. Production techniques of the laboratory
need improving and production capacity is limited by obsolete equipment. Prac-
tically all the anthelmintics and insecticides used for the control of para-
sites are imported.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Feed Resources and Co_nsump'tion
16.       The main feed resources are range land, crop residue, fallow graz-
ing. straw and concentrates. In general rarge grazine Drovides about 50% of
the feed consumed by all livestock7 cron residue, straw and fallow about 32%;
and concentrates about 16%. Most of the remainder comes from green foraRe.
Dependence on range grazing is greatest in the case of bedouin sheep and ex-
tensively managed goats (aDproximately 70% of total intake from range) fol-
lowed by farm sheep and local cattle (about 48% from range).  High producing
dairv animals and mnilking goats receive none of their feed requirements from
the range, while draught animals get onlv about 20% of their needs from this
source.  On average, sheep receive from 25% (in the case of bedouin sheep) to
40% (for farm sheep) of their total feed intake from cron residue, fallow and
straw, and from 3% (bedouin sheep) to 13% (farm sheep) from concentrates.
Institutions Concerned with Livestock Production
17.       MAAR.  The sections of the Ministry that have direct responsibilitv
for the livestock subsector are the Animal Health and Animal Production Depart-
ments. Animal health services have been discussed above (paras 13-15). The
Animal Production Department includes a Sheep and Range Section as well as a
Cattle and Poultry Section. Public sector institutions concerned with live-
stock production, e.g., the Dairy Institution and the Poultry Institution,
report directly to the Minister through a special office for public sector
enterprises.
18.       National Feed Revolving Fund (NFRF).  The NFRF, which was established
from the proceeds of feed supplied by the WFP, is held at the Agricultural Co-
operative Bank (ACB) and is under the day-to-day management of the Sheep and
Range Section of the Animal Production Department. The operations of NFRF are
described in Annex 2.
19.       The General Organization for Trade and Processing of Cereals is the
public sector agency in charge of wheat flour mills and the procurement and
marketing of wheat, barley and lentils. Its relevance to the livestock sec-
tor rests in the fact that through its buying points it purchases a portion
of the barley output and is the main source of wheat bran and wheat screenings.
20.       The General Farmers' IUnion is responsible for the supervision of
agricultural cooperatives, including the sheep fattening and sheep and range
cooperatives, and is the spokesman for all farm organizations. The Union re-
ceives half of the LS 10 per ton tax on all feed sold by the public sector
(para 23). This income is used for promoting cooperative work.
21.       The General Supply Institution, through its Meat Bureau, supplies
meat to the Damascus market in order to reduce fluctuations in supply. The
Institution makes advance contracts with fattening cooperatives for delivery
at specified periods and at specified prices. It gives advances of LS 100
per head to sheep fatteners to help finance the purchase of feeder animals.
Some 100,000 head were contracted in 1973. The Institution itself also
fattens animals.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
22.       General Organization for Feed (GOF).  The GOF was established by
Presidential Decree in February 1974 and became operational ir August of the
same year. It has broad responsibilities in the feed sector, including the
supervision of feed processing and establishment of feed mills, establishment
of feed storage warehouses, supervision of the marketing of all feed commodi-
ties both inside and outside the country, supervision of domestic feed dis-
tribution and the purchase of feed from producers through advance contracts.
Although not specificallY stated in the degree establishing it, the (0F has
assumed responsibility for planning the feed needs of the livestock sector
and the allocation of feed resources. GOF warehouses, both existing and
under construction, have a storage capacity of about 245.000 tons of grain
in sacks. In addition, cooperative warehouses provide space for about
155,000 tons, giving a combined total storage capacity of 400,000 tons of
feed.
Market;1M and Price Policy
23.       Producer prices, for major agricultural commodities, are controlled
by the Government, and in general they have been rather stable and quite low
over the last decade. Prices of concentrate feeds handled by the public sec-
tor are set by government policy, often at levels below foreign market prices.
This led in the past to rather large quantities of feed being exported and to
shortages on the local market. At present, the export of feed concentrates
is banned, except under special circumstances, and this has resulted in some
price distortions between feeds and the misallocation of some feed resources.
Livestock producers pay a tax of LS 10 per ton on all feed sold by the public
sector. One half of this tax goes to the General Farmers' Union and the other
half to the NFRF. Recently, GOF was to take over the distribution of all
feed controlled by the public sector on which it would levy a standard charge
of LS 50 per ton (LS 40 per ton for cooperatives and state enterprises) to
cover transportation, overhead and related costs incurred between the feed
production point and the Organization's warehouses. This levy would replace
the LS 10 per ton feed tax.
24.       Prices of livestock are free with the exception of that for meat
supplied to Damascus by the General Supply Institution which is set by the
Institution with the approval of the Governor of Damascus Province. Bedouin
sheep are marketed mainly through merchants or small shopkeepers while vil-
lagers usually sell their animals at regional markets or, on occasion, to
merchants. Sheep milk is marketed in the cities mostly in the form of cheese.
In certain areas cheesemakers enter into contracts with groups of bedouins for
the supply of fresh milk. Wool is marketed through merchants who use commis-
sion agents to determine its availability for sale. Tle wool is subsequently
sold to larger merchants who control both the domestic and export trade.
25.       Fattened sheep are sold either to the General Supply Institution
under contract, on a carcass weight basis, or to traders in regional markets
on a per head basis. Slaughterhouse records show that about 50% of all lambs
are slaughtered in the April-June period while about 25% of the slaughterings
occur during the July-September period. The slaughtering of a4tilt sheep is



ANNEX 1
Page 7
lowest between April and June, with the other quarters each accounting for
about 30% of the total. About one third of the sheep fattened annually are
imported animals. Except in years of meat scarcity, when exports may be com-
pletely banned, fattened lambs and yearlings are exported live to Lebanon and
Jordan.
Government Livestock Prgr ams
26.       With regard to livestock development the current Five-Year Plan (1971-
1975) has the general objective, 'to raise and diversify livestock and crop
production by achieving integration between them ... .  Specific objectives
include:
(a) strengthening and expansion of the veterinary services to cover
prevention and treatment of epizootic diseases,
(b) increased construction of wells and small dams in the steppe;
(c) establishing a feed reserve;
(d) expansion of the extension services for animal production;
(e) support of projects for the improvement of local cattle and
their crossbreeding with exotic animals;
(f) ensuring self-sufficiency in eggs and broiler production; and
(g) participation of the Agricultural Cooperative Bank (ACB) in
financing livestock projects with medium- and long-term loans,
particularly for cooDeratives.
27.       A draft livestock develonment plan to 1980 was preDared in 1973, the
targets of which are quite ambitious. The national sheeD flock would be sta-
bilized at around 6 million breeding animals and production would increase
2.5 (milk) and 4 (meat) times present levels. The plan aims at raising cattle
numbers 150% and milk and meat production more than threefold. Broiler produc-
tion would increase from 10 million to 32 million and lavers from 0.5 million
to 3.5 million. In the field of feed production and processing, the plan rec-
ommends the establishment of 5 new feed mills with a capacitv of 100,000 tons
each (in 3 shifts). Fodder crops are to be introduced into the rotation on
irrigated landz fallow land in areas receiving over 350 mm rainfall annually
would be seeded to fodder crops; and perennial fodder shrubs would be estab-
lished on marginal land.  The number of sheep and range cooperatives would be
increased to cover half the area of the steppe.
28.       Some progress has been made in implementing the plan objectives.  The
construction of 26 government dairy stations with a total of 15,600 head of
imported cattle is underway. Thirteen of the stations are being financed by
a loan from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Develonment and 13 by the



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Romanian Government.  Included in the loans is the establishment of 4 heifer
rearing statiors (10,600 total head per year) and 2 bull fattening stations
(5,500 head total per year). Also included are 2 artificial insemination
centers and a quarantine station. Large scale developments with outside as-
sistance are also underway in the poultry field. If all these projects are
successfully implemented, it is estimated that annual broiler and egg produc-
tion would increase by 40 million and 350 million respectively. A new WFP
project is assistine in the formation of additional sheep and ranee coopera-
tives, the establishment of fodder shrubs on marginal land and the introduc-
tion of fodder crops into the rotation.
June 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Sheep Cooperatives and Credit
Present Situation
Sheep Cooperatives
1.        Syria has been the site of an interesting pioneer experience in
the Middle East in the development of the sheep subsector, both in sheep
breeding and range management under marginal and steppe conditions and in or-
ganization of sheep breeders and fatteners in cooperatives. These coopera-
tives have been established with feed aid and later with credit from the Na-
tional Feed Revolving Fund (NFRF) financed from the proceeds of feed supplied
by the World Food Program (WFP). There are at present 14 sheep breeding co-
operatives and 37 sheep fattening cooperatives. Additional sheep cooperatives
will be established under a new WFP project and under the proposed Bank-
assisted project. Moreover, about 12 dairy cooperatives have been established
and other cooperatives such as for beef fattening are being considered.
2.        The legislative framework for an effective operation of the range
cooperatives was established by Legislative Decree No. 140 of 1970 and Law
No. 13 of 1973. These provide for gradual improvements in control of animal
numbers and in grazing systems within the range area of each cooperative.
Limits are set on the number of animals per family for which feed rations
can be obtained through the cooperative. The underlying principle of this
approach is that responsibility for proper range management lies with the
social group rather than with Government.
3.        Membership in a fattening cooperative entitles the fattener to a
maximum of 14 shares in the cooperative. Each share gives right to feed loans
for 15 sheep per fattening cycle, or 45 sheep per year for the normally prac-
tised 3 fattening cycles.
4.        Each cooperative has an elected board of directors.  The Government
assists the cooperatives through the assignment of a technical supervisor and
a clerk. Members who are found to act contrary to cooperative rules, e.g.,
through resale of feed to outsiders or by not respecting loan repayment sched-
ules, are disqualified from receiving loans in the next season.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Credit
5.        The National Feed Revolving Fund (NFRF).  The incentive for organi-
zing sheep producers into cooperatives was originally feed aid and later credit
for construction of warehouses and for feed purchases using the proceeds of
WFP assistance. With NFRF loans 47 cooperative warehouses have been con-
structed or are tmder construction. These loans are interest-free, but
carry a one-time service charge of 1% and are repayable over a 10-year
period. Farm and range sheep cooperatives obtain short-term credit for
the purchase of supplementary feed requirements and cooperatives of feed-
lot fatteners are given loans for the purchase of their feed needs.
6.        According to present procedures NFPF provides interest-free loans
for two thirds of a cooperative member's annual feed requirements. For sheep
and range cooperatives, repayment of credit for supplementary feeding is due
by the end of June. For fattening cooperatives, 50% repayment is due after
4 months atnd 50% after 8 months. If these due dates are not met, prevailing
ACB interest rates as well as fines for late payment are assessed. The Min-
ister of Agriculture is empowered at any time to impose interest charges on
NFRF loans.
7.        The NFRF is held at the ACB which acts as NFRF's disbursing and
collecting agent. ACB disburses against the NFRF to cooperative borrowers
on instructions from MAAR's Animal Production Department which on a day-to-
day basis acts for NFRF's Executive Board. Currently, ACB performs this
function free of charge but pays NFRF interest of 1.5% p.a. on its positive
balance as compared with 4% paid to private depositors. The loan risk is
carried entirely by NFRF. Repayment rates for both short- and long-term
credit have been excellent, nearly 100%.
8.        As of December 31, 1974, NFRF's assets amounted to LS 10.1 million
and although a cash availability is shown of LS 2.5 million, this was already
committed for the ongoing warehouse construction program. Feed loans made in
1974 amounted to LS 3.1 million, while another LS 2.4 million was disbursed in
the same period for warehouse construction (Table 1). Over the same period
cooperatives repaid LS 3.2 million, mostly for feed loans. Other sources of
NFRF income have been its share of LS 5/ton in the LS 10/ton tax levied on
feed sales by the public sector. 1/ In view of its existing commitments, es-
pecially for warehouse construction, NFRF falls considerably short of financing
the feed requirements of sheep cooperatives. Full feed requirements of already
existing cooperatives, calculated according to NFRF standards, would amount to
180,000 tons or about LS 40-45 mmillion of which producers would provide one
third under present conditions.
9.        Other activities of NFRF have been the provision of material, equip-
ment and breeding stock for government range and sheep stations (LS 1.0 mil-
lion) in exchange for which NFRF received the net income from these stations
1/   The remaining LS 5/ton goes to the G'eneral Farmers' Union.



ANINTEX 2
Page 3
(LS 0.7 million). NFRF has also made short-term loans to livestock coopera-
tives in farming areas to help finance production costs of the establishment
of annual and perennial forage crops, mostlv for demonstration purposes (LS
0.4 million).
The Agricultural Cooperative Bank (ACB)
10.       ACR is the sole institution for lendinR to agricultural producers.
Its total lending in 1974 amounted to LS 173 million of which LS 87 million
in kind and LS 86 million in cash. Abotut 80% of total lending was in short-
term loans, mainly for cotton production. The provision of credit in kind--
fertilizers, pesticides and seeds--involves the bank in transnortation, stor-
age and distribution of these inputs. ACB's policy and operations are over-
seen by M4AAR and by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Through its
virtual monopoly of input distribution and the need for producers to obtain
licenses from MAAR as a condition for credit, ACB is the principal instrument
of agricultural production policy.
11.       The bank finances about 65% of its operations from its own capital
and the balance, in about equal proportions, from resources obtained through
its rediscount facilities with the Central Bank and through deposits for which
it pays 4% on demand and 6% on time deposits. These deposits belong mainly to
cooperatives and public sector organizations. ACB lending rates are 4% to co-
operatives and public sector organizations and 5.5% to the private sector,
for both short- and longer-term credit. The bank has a good repayment record
(around 95%), maintained by requiring for short-term loans two cosignatories
known to the bank or, for members of cooperatives, the cosignature of the co-
operative. For medium- and long-term loans title to the land must be presented
or the loan risk must be assumed by a farmers' organization.
12.       ACB has not been a source of financing for livestock feed since 1972
when it lent LS 1.5 million for this purpose to the entire livestock subsector.
Existing lending norms do not seem attractive as the maximum loan amount of
LS 3,000 would permit fattening of only about 65 head, i.e., one third of the
size of the typical fattening batch. Yet, NFRF credit is only available to
members of cooperatives and, moreover, has been rationed by a sharp reduction
in the percentage of individual feed needs financed and an embargo on admission
of new members to participating cooperatives. On the other hand, private feed
suppliers and livestock traders are an important source of credit particularly
to sheep fatteners. This type of credit is customarily provided in the form
of deferred payments with the finance charge concealed in the purchase price.
For suppliers' credit over a 2-4 month period, feed prices are typically raised
between 10 and 25% on an annual basis.
13.       NFRF does not provide credit for the purchase of livestock.  ACB data
show only small amounts for this purpose, most of which would be for dairy cat-
tle. The main source of credit here is again the private sector. Also the
Meat Bureau of the General Supply Institution, a public sector organization
supplving the Damascus meat market, provides short-term credit for the pur-
chase of lambs or yearling rams bv members of fattenina cooperatives. In this



ANNEX 2
Page 4
case, a marketing contract is required. This form of credit is not very reli-
able as its supply fluctuates strongly with the meat demand faced by the Meat
Bureau. It is also expected to remain rather limited as the Meat Bureau is
building up its own fattening capacity.
Proposed Situation Under the Project
Sheep Cooperatives
14.       The existing sheep and range cooperatives are expected to increase
from 14 to 26 by 1980, and the sheep fattening cooperatives would increase
from the present 37 to 49. Total membership is estimated to double to about
24,000 bedouin or semi-nomadic families for the sheep and range cooperatives
with an expected total sheep population of some 1.6 million and membership in
fattening cooperatives is expected to go up by 70%, thereby increasing the
number of animals to be fattened by 84% to 1.4 million.
Credit
15.       Cooperatives Annual Feed Needs.  A basic feature of the project would
be the expansion of NFRF's capacity for financing the annual requirements for
purchased feed of members of sheep and range cooperatives as well as of sheep
fattening cooperatives. These requirements are estimated at 243,000 tons,
requiring a revolving fund of US$19.7 million based on the full annual needs
of farm and range sheep and on two thirds of the annual needs of fattened sheep,
the latter on the premise that repayment of the loan for the first batch would
permit financing of the third batch. Credit would be provided for 80% of
needs only, leaving 20% for self financing. NFRF would be the sole source
of financing the annual feed requirements of members of sheep cooperatives.
16.       The demand for supplemental feed is now well established, particu-
larly due to the very favorable terms on which it is being made available to
members of cooperatives. The incentive of interest-free feed loans has played
a useful role during the introductory period and this period should now be
ended. Under the project, beneficiaries of NFRF loans would therefore pay
interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum, the maximum legal interest rate for
institutional credit to the agricultural sector. However, for beneficiaries
below the relative poverty level, defined as those with annual incomes of
LS 3,500 or less, a rebate of 2% would be applied to the regular interest
rate, provided that they show evidence, satisfactory to NFRF, of such income
levels. The criteria used by NFRF to determine income levels of cooperative
members would be developed through a baseline study of the pre-project income
situation to be carried out under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, before
December 31, 1976. Until the conclusion of this baseline study, NFRF would
consider eligible for the preferential interest rate those members of sheep
and range cooperatives holding less than 60 ewes and those members of sheep
fattening cooperatives fattening less than 255 sheep per year. The income
and credit situation would be monitored quarterly to provide information about



ANNEX 2
Page 5
the cooperative members' debt service burden and debt service payment capacity.
On the basis of the income and credit studies a joint review would be carried
out by the Government and the Bank before July 30, 1978 to determine the need
for maintaining the preferential interest rate of 5.5% and for revising the
LS 3,500 income criterion.
17.       The interest payments would accrue to NFRF's revenues for the pur-
pose of making additional feed loans. A tentative cash flow projection for
NFRF's feed loan operations is shown in Table 2. No administrative costs
would be charged by MAAR to borrowers as those of NFRF would be small and
consist of part-time use of MAAR's Animal Production Department staff. These
costs would be similar to those borne by the crop extension service for the
technical appraisal of agricultural loan applications. The existing arrange-
ment between NFRF and ACB, whereby ACB pays 1.5% annual interest on the posi-
tive balance in NFRF's account instead of the regular deposit rate of 4%,
would continue to meet ACB's disbursement and collection costs for NFRF loans.
June 1976



ANNEX 2
Table I
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
NFRF Cash Flow Statement
Inflow                                                               LS thousand
Cash balance on January 1, 1974                                         4,752
Transfer of end-of-period balance of cattle
and poultry feed fund                                                   639
Interest on cash balances in ACB during 1973
and until June 30, 1974                                                  19
Loan repayments over 1974                                               3,168
Income from sheep centers                                                 723
WhFP contributions (in kind)                                               334
Feed tax revenue share                                                    393
Down payments for 1974/75 feed orders                                       40
Subtotal                                   10,069
Outflow
Feed loans to cooperatives                                              3,139
Disbursements on cooperative warehouse
construction loans                                                    2,446
Short-term loans for fodder production                                    377
Transfers to sheep centers                                              1,025
Other                                                                     582
Subtotal                                    7,569
Cash balance on December 31, 1974                                       2,500
June 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 2
APPRAISAI OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
NFRF - Sheep Cooperatives Feed Loan Operations
Cash Flow Projection
Year
Item                           1         2        3        4        5        6
---------------- US$ million -----------------
Cash at beginning of year              0.8      12.1     12.9      13.5    14.1      15.6
Inflow
Government contribution /1          15.6       0.9      0.8       1.0     1.4        -
Principal repayment /2
Sheep and range cooperatives       6.3       6.6      6.9       7.4     7.9       7.9
Sheep fattening cooperatives       8.6      13.4     13.9      14.7    15.6      15.6
Interest /3
Sheep and range cooperatives       0.4       0.5      0.5       0.5     0.6       0.6
Sheep fattening cooperatives       0.9       1.0      1.0       1.1     1.1       1.1
Total                        31.8     22.4      23.1     24.7    26.6      25.2
Outflow
Feed loans
Sheep and range cooperatives       6.6       7.0      7.3       7.8     8.3       8.3
Sheep fattening cooperatives      13.6      14.3     14.9      16.0    16.5      16.5
Administrative expenses /4            0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1     0.1       0.1
Increase in reserves /5              0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2     0.2       0.2
Total                        20.5      21.6     22.5      24.1    25.1     25.1
Cash at end of year                    12.1     12.9     13.5      14.1    15.6      15.7
/1 First year:  total estimated amount of gross disbursements for feed loans to sheep
and range cooperatives, and two-third of gross disbursements for fattening coopera-
tives; years 2-5: estimated incremental gross disbursements for sheep and range
cooperatives, and two-third of incremental gross disbursements for fattening
cooperatives.
/2 95% average repayment rate assumed.
/3 7.5% of five-sixth of loans repaid and 5.5% of one-sixth of loans repaid, assuming
that borrowers eligible for the reduced interest rate constitute one-third of total
borrowers and that the size of their loans is one-half that of the wealthier
borrowers.
4 0.5% of loans made.
/5 1% of loans repaid.
June 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
National Feed Development Scheme
General
1.        The Syrian Government has recently embarked on several large-scale
intensive dairy and poultry development projects with external financial and
technical assistance. While some effort has been made at intensification of
sheep production, most sheep are maintained under extensive conditions (with
more than 60% of their total feed requirements coming from range land grazing)
and their productive output is greatly influenced by fluctuations in feed
availability brought about by variability of rainfall and the occurrence of
drought. The main feeds used for supplemental feeding of sheep, as well as
cattle, are straw and barley. Since much of the barley is grown in areas
that are marginal for crop production, the output of this grain is also sub-
ject to extreme inter-annual fluctuations. These factors cumulate to create
crises during low rainfall years. The typical cycle of events leads to a re-
duction in sheep numbers during drought years due to deaths and forced slaugh-
tering, with consequent low meat prices, followed by periods of meat shortage
and high prices in good years when flocks are being rebuilt. Ensuring the
feed needs during normal years and a minimum feed base during drought years
would stabilize sheep numbers, increase production and provide for a more
balanced development of the whole livestock sector.
Present Feed Situation
2.        Feed availability and consumption vary from year to year as a result
of variations in inter-annual and intra-annual rainfall. The supply and in-
take of feed for all livestock have been estimated based on a model providing
for the occurrence, in an average 5-year period, of a good, poor, medium, good
and medium rainfall year, in that order. These estimates are presented in
Table 1. As indicated, some 190 million feed units in the form of straw and
cottonseed hulls are available for feeding in a drought year as carry-over
from the 4 preceding medium to good rainfall years. Most of this feed is
stored on farms or held by private traders. In addition, about 268,000 tons
of concentrates (barley equivalent) are carried over to a drought year, of
which approximately 200,000 tons are held by the private sector, and 70,000
tons are supplied by the public sector either through imports or from reserve
stocks. However, despite the carry-over of an estimated 458 million feed
units, in a drought year, sheep receive only about 75% of the feed consumed
in a normal year. This reduction in feed availability results in important
production losses and a decrease in size of the breeding flock.



ANNNEX 3
Page 2
3.        The average production and availability of feed concentrates are
shown in Table 2.  Barley is the sinple most important feed. accounting for
55% of total concentrate production.  However, since it is largely grown
under marglral climatic conditions on the fringe between the higher rainfall
areas and the stepne, barlev production shows gfreat vear-to-year fluctuations.
Over the last 10 years the area sown to barley varied from 300,000 ha to
slightly over 1 million ha, and per ha yield ranged from about 100 ko to
1,200 kg. Average total production amourted to about 420,000 tons per year
with a range fror 100,000 to 700,000 tons. Exports of barlev occurred follow-
ing bumper cron vears while barley was imported in drought years. Net arnual
exports over the last 10 vears amounted to 70,000 tons. Seed requirements
accounted for another 70.000 tons annually and 280,000 tons were used as
animal feed. On average, over 75% of the barley produced is retained on
individual farms or held by private traders, and only about 24% is purchased
by the public sector.
4.        The year-to-year production of other feed grains (grain legumes,
maize, sorghum) and agricultural by-products (cottonseed cake, wheat bran,
sugarbeet pulp, beet molasses) is more uniform than that of barley since
most of these feeds originate from irrigated or high rainfall areas. Regular
annual exports of cottonseed cake occurred through 1972 while the exportation
of wheat bran has been prohibited since 1970. Roughly 65% of the total avail-
able concentrate feed is consumed by sheen and goats and the remainder is
divided about equally among cattle, poultry and draught animals.
F.pected Future Production of Feed
5.        Total feed consumption is expected to increase on average by about
25%, from an estimated 3,200 million feed units at present to just under 4,000
million feed units by 1980, due to expanded poultry production, an expansion
of intensive dairv farming, increased cattle and sheep fattening, and improved
feeding of sheep breeding flocks. Most of the additional feed requirements would
be met through the increased availability of concentrates which would rise
from some 500,000 tons at present to about 990,000 tons by 1980, including
the net importation of 130,000 tons of poultry feed (Table 3). The national
production of concentrates would increase mainly as a result of an expansion
of maize, wheat bran and cottonseed cake production. Approximately 20% of
the concentrate feeds would be held on-farm and 80% would be provided from
commercial sources (public and private). If the poultry industry develops
as planned, less than half of the commercial feed would be available for
sheep. It is expected that part of the additional feed required would come
from the increased availability of irrigated crop residue and green forage
and the production of a limited amount of hay.
A National Feed Developyment Scheme
6.        The'distribution of feed resources has to be organized on a national
basis given the competing demands of different livestock subsectors as well as
export demand and the different sectoral origins of feed supplies. The Govern-
ment has recognized the need for a national feed development scheme that through



ANNEX 3
Page 3
reducing the strong seasonal and inter-annual fluctuations in feed supplies
and prices would satisfy the feed requirements of all livestock producers at
reasonable prices. The National Feed Development Scheme would consist of
three components, of which two would be included in the project. The project
would provide for development of an organizational framework for defining and
implementing national feed policies which would optimize the use of available
feed stuffs and feed storage facilities. In conjunction with this, technical
assistance would be provided in the form of consultants and a study of feed
pricing would be carried out. The project would further provide financing
for the annual purchased feed needs of the sheep cooperatives (Annex 2). The
Government would undertake to establish and operate an emergency feed reserve
to provide feed to sheep producers in drought years. Because it is intimately
related to the project and because the project justification assumes the estab-
lishment and operation of the emergency feed reserve, agreement was reached
with the Government on its major features.
7.        The Organizational Framework.  The organizational framework for feed
distribution decision making to be developed under the project would include
the National Feed Policy Committee (NFPC) with a secretariat, IAAR's Animal
Production Department, the General Organization for Feed (GOF) and the Agri-
cultural Cooperative Bank (ACB). Based on the information provided by the
various department and agencies involved in the feed-livestock sector, all of
which are represented in NFPC, the Committee would discuss, approve and submit
to the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, or the council of Ministers
for Economic Affairs as the case may be, for issuance as ministerial decision:
(a) general feed policy guidelines, (b) annual feed distribution plans, and
(c) recommendations for feed prices and feed/meat price relationships. NFPC
would also monitor feed utilization and issue periodic reports on this subject.
8.        NFPC's secretariat would be headed by an executive secretary whose
qualifications and experience would be acceptable to the Bank. Initially,
the secretariat would be reinforced by three consultants, a price policy
adviser, a feed distribution adviser and a cost accounting adviser. The
functions and qualifications of the executive secretary as well as draft terms
of reference for the consultants are in Annex 8. NFPC would sponsor a study
to review feed prices and the feed/meat price relationship and to make recom-
mendations for a more rational policy in this area. The study would be carried
out by a task force of Government officials assisted by the price policy
adviser provided under the project and under the chairmanship of NFPC's exe-
cutive secretary. The terms of reference of this study would be prepared in
consultation with the Bank, its conclusions and recommendations would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review by June 30, 1977, and the Government s plan
for implementation would be communicated to the Bank before December 31, 1977
at which time implementation would be initiated.
9.        Financing the Cooperatives' Annual Purchased Feed Needs.  The total
annual financing needs for purchased feed of the projected membership of sheep
cooperatives have been estimated at 243,000 tons (Table 4), requiring an initial



AINEX 3
Page 4
revolving loan fund currently valued at US$19.7 million equivalent, which
would he made available under the project (Table 5). This is based on the
total feed needs of the sheep and range cooperatives (81,000 tons) and two
thirds of the total feed needs of the sheep fattening cooperatives (108,000
tons). In the case of the latter this assumes that 3 batches of animals are
fattened each year, with repayment of the credit for fattening the first
batch allowing financing of the third batch. Credit would be provided for
only 80% of total feed needs; the remaining 20% would be self-financed by
the cooperative members.
10.       The Emergency Feed Reserve.  In conjunction with the project, but
wholly financed by the Government, an emergency feed reserve with a target
level of 280,000 tons would be established, consisting of 215,000 tons of feed
grains, mostly barley, and 65,000 tons of cottonseed cake. Over the previous
decade barley production has averaged 420,000 tons annually and it is expected
that this level of production would be maintained in the future (Table 3). The
emergency reserve of feed grain would be built up over a 3-year period in 3
approximately equal additions. Save for exceptional circumstances, the feed
grain component would be built up and replenished from surpluses in domestic
production which otherwise would have been exported. If serious droughts
occur early in the life of the reserve, a part of the feed grain requirement
would be procured abroad. In any case, no exports of feed grain would be per-
mitted whenever the emergency feed reserve is below its target level. The
availability of cottonseed cake is rather stable, even in drought years, and
normally the surplus over domestic consumption is exported. In a drought
year, 65,000 tons of cottonseed cake would be withheld from export to be
directed for use as part of the emergency feed reserve.
11.       The 280,000 tons are considered to constitute a sufficient reserve
level given current information about supply and demand for feed in future
emergency situations. When experience has been gained from operation of the
emergency reserve scheme and when more reliable production data become avail-
able, a more elaborate approach may be adopted, leading possibly to a dif-
ferent optimal stocking level. The reserve would provide feed during drought
years for both range and farm breeding flocks. In addition, a small amount
would be allocated to fattening cooperatives. The emergency needs were esti-
mated as follows:
(a)  Range sheep:  3.85 million x 50 kg   =   192,500 tons
(b)  Farm sheep:   2.57 million x 15 kg   =    38,500 tons
(c)  Sheep fattening cooperatives           =    49,000 tons
Total                                - 280,000 tons
Range sheep would receive the largest share of the feed since they would suffer
most from the effects of a drought. Considerably less feed would go to farm



ANNEX 3
Page 5
sheep on the assumption that farmers in the higher rainfall areas would nor-
mally have available some feed from their own stores. Emergency feed would
be distributed for a period of about 60 to 90 days in those years when the
amount of rain received by the middle of February is less than two third of
the normal rainfall. The decision to set the emergency allocation system
in motion would be taken by the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
upon recommendations of the Director of the Animal Production Department. In
order to improve the basis for decision making, the Animal Production Depart-
ment would develop a procedure through MAAR's provincial extension services
to monitor continuously the shortfall of available feed required by sheep
producers.
12.       The establishment and operation of the emergency feed reserve would
be the responsibility of GOF. The funds to establish the reserve would be
provided by the Government. Feed grains would be purchased by the General
Organization for Trade and Processing of Cereals (GOTPC) through its estab-
lished buying points. The Government would make available to GOF the funds
required to purchase the quantities of feed provided by GOTPC. GOF would
charge beneficiaries of emergency feed allocations the actual cost of this
feed, including procurement, storage, and distribution charges, determined on
the basis of norms to be reviewed by the Bank, as well as any interest payment
obligations on loans obtained from the Government to purchase emergency feed.
Under exceptional circumstances, defined as two consecutive severe drought
years declared by the Government, GOF would be allowed to charge beneficiaries
less than the actual cost of emergency feed (as defined above). In this case,
the Government will compensate GOF for the shortfall in revenues from the sale
of this feed. In the event that emergency feed will be made available on
credit, the Government would make available to ACB, when necessary, the funds
required to provide adequate credit for this purpose. GOF and ACB would es-
tablish not later than December 31, 1976 and thereafter apply, coordinated
procedures, to be reviewed by the Bank, for providing emergency feed on credit.
13.       Procurement, Storage and Distribution of Feed.  Barley and other
feed grains would be procured by GOTPC acting on behalf of GOF. GOF would
resell these feeds to cooperatives who would store them in their warehouses.
Most of the other feed ingredients would be obtained by users direct from the
flour and oil mills and sugar factories, on a regular basis. The distribution
of animal feed by the cooperative from their warehouses to individual members
is already well established. A suggested scheme for the efficient handling
of feed materials is presented in Chart 15309. A problem of rodent and insect
infestation exists at present in the storage facilities of GOF and of the co-
operatives. The Government has agreed that GOF and MAAR would prepare plans
for rodent and insect control which would be submitted to the Bank for comments
by December 31, 1976 and then implemented before June 30, 1977.
June 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Estimated Ouantities of Feed Available and ConsuXmed in Good. Mediuma and Poor Rainfall Year
Crop Residue                           Straw
Range                                                              Cottonseed                      Green
Grazing    Rainfed   IrriRated   Fallow   Cereal   Leae               hulls        Concentrates   Forage
---------------____--------------- million feed unit --------------------------… ----------
Good Year
Bedouin sheep                                    886        200           39          --        30        --           1              20            --
Farm sheep                                       431          74          40          42        90        --          --               79           --
Sheep fattening                                   --          --          --          --         3         7           1             165            --
Total                                    1,307         274           79         42       123         7            2             264            --
Goats                                            125          30           14         10         3         3          --              11             4
Cattle                                           154         40           46          25        50        21           1              67            80
Poultry                                           --          --          --          --        --        --          --               66           --
Drought animals                                   38         100          27          23        94        12          --              52             4
Camels                                             7                --          --         --             --          --               --            --
Total available                                1,641        575          200         100       300       53           23             580            88
Total consume                                  1,641        444          166         100       270       43            3             460            88
Carryover                                         --          --           /1         Li        30        10          20             120            --
Medium Year
Bedouin sheep                                    971         159          60          --        20        --           5               25           --
Farm sheep                                       355         142          80          60        60         4           --              99           --
Sheep fattening                                   --          --          --          --         5         5           5             170            --
Total                                    1,326         301          140         60         85        9           10             294            --
Goats                                            157          28            6         10         9         3          --               11             4
Cattle                                           175          48          42          15        46        12           4               62            80
Poultry                                           --          --          --          --        --        --          --               66            --
Drought animals                                   94          48          12          15        90        --          --               53             4
Camels                                             6          --           --         --        --        --          --               --            --
Total available                                1,758         425         200         100       250        30          23             500            88
Total consumed                                 1,758         425         200         100       230        24          14             486            88
Carryover                                         --          --           --         --        20         6            9              14            --
Drought Year
Bedouin sheep                                    422         254         100          10        54        --          40              110            --
Farm sheep                                       190         167          35          20       100         6          15              139            --
Sheep fattening                                   --          --          --          --         8        18           8             180             --
Total                                      612         421          135         30        162       24           63             429            --
Goats                                            125          25           18         10        15         5          --               11             4
Cattle                                           167          25           22         20        24        27          18               47            81
Poultry                                           --          --           --         --         --       --          --               --            66
Draught animals                                   58          79           25         15        49        --                           55             3
Camels                                             5                      --          --        --          --                         --            -
Total available                                  967         550         200          75       150        24          23              340            88
Carryover from previous years                     --          --           --         --       100        32          58              268            --
Total consumed                                   967         550         200          75       250        56          81              608            88
/1 Unutilized aftermath ploughed under.
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Production and Availability of Feed Concentrates, 10-yr. Average, 1965-74
Retained                Commercial
Total            on                          Public
Production        farm        Total    Domestic    Exports         Private
______________________   thousand tons__---__---------------------
Barley                                420            170           250         30           70          150
Cottonseed cake                       110              --          110  -      30           80           --
Grain legumes                          50              30           20         --           10            10
Maize                                   8               3            5         --           --             5
Sorghum                                35              20           15         --           --            15
Screenings                              5              --            5          5           --            --
Wheat bran                             65              __           65         50           15            __
Beet pulp                               8              --            8          8           --            --
Beet molasses                           9              --            9         --            9            --
Others                                 50              17           33         12            1            20
Total production                      760            240           520        135         -185           200
Used for seed /1                      -80            -50           -30        -20           --          -10
Imports /2                             40             --            40         --           --            40
Exports /3                           -185              --         -185         --          185            --
Losses                                -35            -10           -25        -15           --           -1G
Total availability                    500            180          320         100           __          220
/1  70,000 tons of total was barley seed.
7T  Mostly poultry feed.
T Net exports.
Source:  rAU/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FLRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Estimated Annieal Production and Avail abiity of Feed Concentrates by 1980
Retained                 Commercial
Total       on farm        Tota  Public            Private
------------------thousand   tons   ------------ ------ ---
Barley                                          420           140           280         203           77
Cottonseed cake                                 1)40           -            140         140            -
Grain legumes                                    55            45            10          -            10
Maize                                             Bo           10            70           6            5
Sorghum                                          45            30            15          -            15
Wheat screenings                                  10           -             10           10           -
Wheat bran                                      120            -            120         120            -
Beet pulp                                         20           -             20          20            -
Beet molasses                                    20            -             20          20            -
Soybean meal                                     10            -             10          10            -
Other                                            60            45            15           5           10
Hay (barley equivalent)                          50            - __                _     ro            -
Total                                    1,030           270           760         643          117
Used for seed                                  - 85          - 55          - 30        - 20         - 10
Imports (poultry feed)                          195            -            195         195            -
Exports (cottonseed cake)                      - 65            -          - 65         - 65            -
Losses                                         - 35          -10           - 25        - 20          - 5           d 3
Total availability                            1,o40 /1        205           835         733          102           X X4
/1  1,040,000 - 50,000 (barley, equivalent as hay) = 990,000 tons concentrates.
Source: FAO/WB Cooperative Program and mission estimate.
June 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 4
APrRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Estimated Annual Feed ( Concentrate ) Need of Cooperatives
by 1980 ( Average Year )
A.   Sheep Fattening Cooperatives
Number expected to be fattened in 1975                 - 1,060,000 head
Number expected to be fattened in 1980                 - 1,400,000 head
( 10% increase for 1976; 5% annually thereafter)
Feed needed: 114 kg x 1.4 million head                 - 160,000 tons
B.   Sheep and Range Cooperatives
Number sheep expected in 1975                          - 1,040,000 head
Number sheep expected in 1980                          - 1,600,000 head
( 25% increase for 1976; 5 %' annually thereafter )
Feed needed: 50 kg x 1.6 million head                  -    80,000 tons
Total                                             -   240,000 tons
Including losses at cooperative warehouses       -   243,000 tons
Source:   FAO/WB Cooperative Program and mission estimate.
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Basis for Credit Requirements for Annual Purchased Feed Needs of Sheep Cooperatives /1
Sheep and Range           Sheep Fattening Cooperatives           Total Basis
Feed                        Cooperatives          Total Feed       Basis for Revolving    for Revolving
Financed         Credit Needs /2        Credit Fund
…________-_--------------- thousand tons ---------------------------
Barley                                 25                   78                  52                   77
Cottonseed cake                         -                   17                  11                   11
Wheat screenings                        -                   10                    7                    7
Wheat bran                             36                   33                   22                  58
Low quality wheat                       -                    3                    2                   2
Beet pulp/molasses                      -                    6                    4                   4
Hay (barley equivalent)                20                   15                   10                  30
Total                             81                 162                  108                  189
/1  NFRF would provide credit for only 80% of feed needs; the remaining 20% would be supplied by the
beneficiaries.
/2 Assuming that three batches are fattened annually. The credit funds needed are only for two-thirds
of total annual feed needs of the sheep fattening cooperatives because of the possibility of revolving
the repayments from the first batch to finance the third batch.
Source: FAO/WB Cooperative Program and mission estimate.
June 1976
'J1M
(D 
tn 



ANNEX 4
._ -_ _ _
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Animal Health Develonpment
Introduction
1.        As indicated elsewhere (Annex 1, para 15), only a small portion of
the sheep ponulation is presently provided with adequate health services, and
although the economic importance of this inadequate coverage is not known in
precise terms, it seems safe to assume that productive output is materially
reduced as a consequence. The project would seek to increase production by
providing the Animal Health Department of MAAR with the means to ensure
optimum disease control in the sheep population, as well as improved health
services to cattle and poultry at the village level.
PrSject Activities
2.        Vaccine production by the Central Veterinary Laboratory would be
improved and expanded through the provision of equipment and technical assis-
tance. A laboratory equipment adviser would be provided for a period of 2
years to assist in the selection and installation of new equipment and the
maintenance of existing and new equipment.  He would also train local per-
sonnel. Equipment would be provided for the following functional units of
the laboratory: virology; bacteriology; cleaning and sterilization; freeze-
drying, bottling and storage. In addition, equipment for air filtering and
air conditioning, power supply and a workshop would also be provided, along
with 2 vehicles for field use by the staff of the laboratory., The new equipment
would allow local vaccine production to increase from the present level of
about 6 million doses per year to about 20-25 million doses annually. Most
of this production would be accounted for by vaccines for sheep pox, anthrax
and Newcastle disease in poultry. If the quantities produced of these vac-
cines would fall short of requirements, the Government would assure that the
shortfall be imported. Vaccines against foot-and-mouth disease and rinder-
pest would continue to be imported.
3.        Implementation of the animal health program would be the responsi-
bility of MAAR's Animal Health Department. The veterinary field services
would be organized into 56 mobile teams, i.e. an average of 4 teams per prov-
ince, and each team would include 4 veterinarv assistants, one worker and a
driver. Every 2 teams would be supervised by a graduate veterinarian. The
project would provide each team with a vehicle as well as the necessary equip-
ment, vaccines and pharmaceuticals. Vaccines used by the mobile teams would
be stored at the provincial veterinary centers and sub-centers and these
centers would be provided with refrigerators for this puirpose.



KNNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Seven sheep dipping centers would be constructed on the main migra-
torv routes of the bedouin sheen flocks. The provirces of Alepno, Damascus,
Deir-ez-Zor, -oms and Raqqa would have one center each, while 2 centers would
be built in Hama Province. Each of the first 5 centers would have 2 baths
while the centers in llama would have 3 each. Fach center would be located
where a known water source already exists, and in addition to the baths (with
roof and drains), each would consist of a holding yard, a dripping area, in
and out corridors and watering troughs. The total capacity of the centers
would be about 3 million animals twice a year durinlz the 2 migratory periods
of about 30 days each, i.e. 6,000 sheep per bath per day.
5.        In order to continue the veterinary services on the scale envisaged
under the project, the Animal Health Department would, after a 3-year period
of free treatment for demonstration and incentive purposes, require benefi-
ciaries to repay 50% of the costs of vaccines ard pharmaceuticals provided
in the 4th year and 100% of costs from the 5th year onward. The funds thus
collected would constitute a revolving fund to be established in MAAR under
the control of the Director of the Animal Health Department. This fund would
be used exclusively for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and production of
new vaccines.
6.        Present Government programs for training of staff in the animal
health area will lead to an imbalance between graduate veterinarians and
veterinary assistants. The resulting ratio of veterinarians to the national
livestock population would exceed by far the FAO recommendations for the re-
gion. It is therefore proposed that under the project the Government, if
necessary with outside technical assistance, would carry out a study to
determine the country's optimal requirements for animal health staff and
their training needs. The results of this study, for which the terms of
reference would be drawn up in consultation with the Bank, would be sent to
the Bank for review before July 1, 1977, and the Government would inform the
Bank of the proposed program for implementing the study's recommendations and
begin implementation not later than December 31, 1977.
Estimated Cost
7.        The cost of the animal health services component of the project,
including technical assistance but excluding contingencies, is estimated at
US$4.9 million with a foreign exchange component of US$3.8 million.
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Cost Estimtes
Projet Cost                     1976                        1977                        1978                        1979                         1980                        1981
Project Ele-,ent                 Local   Foreign   loal    L         Feig    Total    Local   Poteigo   Total    Local   Fo-eigo   Total   I-cal   Feig9   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
A. Cooperatives Ansoal
Feed Needs                       20.48     4.19    24.67      5.12      1.05     6.17     8.19      1.68     9.87     4.71      0.96     5.67     0.82      0.17     0.99      0.82     0.17      0.99     0.81      0.17     0.98
B. Animal Health Servains
1.  Vaonine production
equipment                     0.04     0.37     0.41       -        -         -       0.04     0.37      0.41      -         -        -
2. Refrigerators                   0.01     0.02      0.03      -         -                0.01      0.02     0.03
3.  Equaiptsent for mobile
tean     f                    0.01     0.11     0.12       -        -         -       0.01     0.11      0.12
4.  Vehicles                       0.04     0.39      0.43      -         -        -       0.04      0.39     0.43       -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -
5.  Sheep dipping cent-ca          0.03     0.03      0.06      -         -       0.01     0.01      0.01     0.02     0.01      0.01     0.02     0.01      0.01     0.01       -        -
6.  Incre1 estal operatiog
expenses
a.  Ph..mareoticals            0.22     2.20      2.42      -        -         -       0.05     0.50      0.55     0.05      0.50     0.55     0.06      0.63     0.69      0.04     0.45      o.49     0.02     0.12      0.14
b.  Vehicles                   0.13     0.29      0.42     0.01     0.02      0.03     0.02     0.09      0.11     0.03      0.05     0.08     0.03      0.05     0.08      0.03     0.05      0.08     0.01      0.03     0.04
c. Cemtral veterinary
laboratory               0.03      0.23     0.26       -        -         -       0.01     0.07      0.08     0.01     0.04      0.05     0.01     0.04      0.05     0.01      0.04     0.05      0.01     0.02      0.03
d.  Salaries                   0.69      -        0.60     0.03       -       0.03     0.12       -       0.12     0.12       -       0.12     0.12       -       0.12      0.12      -        12 2     0.09       -       0.09
Subtotal                1.11     3.64     4.75      0.04     0.02     0.07      0.31     1.56      1.87     0.22     0.60      0.82     0.23      0.73     0.95      0.20     0.54      0.74     0.13     0.17      0.30
C. Tenhnical Ansiatance
1. National Feed Develop-
nent Scheme                   0.06     0.26      0.32     0.02     0.06      0.08     0.04      0.18     0.22       -       0.02     0.02
2.  Animal health services         0.03     0.13      0.16      -       0.02      0.02     0.02      0.06     0.08     0.01      0.05     0.06
Sobtotsl                    0.09     0.39      0.48     0.02     0.08      0.10     0.04     0.24      0.30     0.01      0.07     0.00      -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -
D. C0ntinen0cie0
1.  Physinal                       0.10     0.39      0.49      -       0.01      0.01     0.03     0.17      0.20     0.02      0.06     0.08     0.02      0.07     0.09      0.02     0.05      0.07     0.01      0.02     0.03
2.  Price                          2.37     1.74      4.11     0.57     0.22      0.79     0.93      0.74     1.67     0.53      0.35     0.88      0.12     0.20     0.32      0.11     0.15      0.27     0.10      0.07     0.18
Subtotal                    2.47     2.13     4.60      0.57     0.23      0.80     0.96     0.91      1.87     0.55      0.41     0.96     0.14      0.27     0.41      0.13     0.20      0.34     0.11      0.09     0.21
Total Project Cost-         24.15    10.35    34.50      5.75     1.38      7.14     9.52     4.39    13.91      5.49      2.04     7.53     1.19      1.17     2.36      1.15     0.92      2.07     1.05      0.44     1.49
/1  e-lsdi.g local tunes sod duties.
Note: Disc-epancien ace doe to coonding.
Sorne:  Mission estimate.
Jlne 1976



ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DgVELOPHENT PROJECT
SYR1A
List of Go2ds to be Pvoeured
Item                                           Quantity       Unit Cost   Total Cost
-  Us$-
Equipment for Central Veteripary Laboratory                 1 aet          410,000      410,000
Cleaning and sterilization unit
Cleaning and autoclaving equipment                                                   38,500
Production of distilled water                                                         2,100
Miscellaneous                                                                         2,600
Freeze-drying, bottling and storage unit
Lyophilizator (industrial type, with fittings)                                       77,200
Walk-in deep freezers                                                                18,000
Bottling equipment                                                                    5,100
Refrigeration room                                                                   10,300
Virology unit
Large equipment                                                                      51,4oo
Small equipment                                                                     12,800
Fixed installations                                                                  38,500
Bacteriology unit
Large equipment                                                                      38,500
Small equipment                                                                     12,800
Fixed installations                                                                  38,500
General equipment (power supply, air filteving                                         37,000
and air conditioning equipment)
Workshop equipment                                                                     12,300
Vehicles                                                                               14,400
Refrigerators                                              74                  425       31,450
Equipment for mobile veterinary teams                      56 sets           2,100      117,600
Syringes (normal and automatic)
Hypodermic needles
Drenching guns
Spraying pumps
Thermo-containers
Post-mortem equipment
Specimen jars
Instrument sterilizers
Vehicles
Four-wheel drive stationwagons                           58                7,400      429,200
Pharmaceuticals
Anthelmintics                                     17,5 million doses       0.13/1  2,245,000
Insecticides                                              "                0.01/1    175,000
Subtotal                                                                      2,420,000
Total                                                                    3 40,250
/1  USB per dose
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimate.
June 1976



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                              Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                    at End of Quarter
(US$ million)
1976/77:
September 30, 1976
December 31, 1976
March 31, 1977
June 30, 1977                                          0.8
1977/78:
September 30, 1977                                     1.2
December 31, 1977                                      1.7
March 31, 1978                                         2.4
June 30, 1978                                          3.2
1978/79:
September 30, 1978                                     4.0
December 31, 1978                                      6.1
March 31, 1979                                         7.0
June 30, 1979                                          8.5
1979/80:
September 30, 1979                                    10.0
December 31, 1979                                     11.5
March 31, 1980                                        12.5
June 30, 1980                                         13.1
1980/81:
September 30, 1980                                    13.6
December 31, 1980                                     14.1
March 31, 1981                                        14.5
June 30, 1981                                         14.9
1981/82:
September 30, 1981                                    15.3
December 31, 1981                                     15.7
March 31, 1982                                        16.1
June 30, 1982                                         16.6
1982/83:
September 30, 1982                                    17.0
December 31, 1982                                     17.5
Source: Mission estimate.
June 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Draft Terms of Reference
Executive Secretary, National Feed Policy Committee
1.        Duties.  The Executive Secretary would be a full-time staff member
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, directly attached to the
office of the Minister, having the rank of Director. Under him would be a
small permanent secretariat which would formulate proposals, and approve and
coordinate proposals presented to the Committee by other organizational unite
within the feed/livestock sector. The secretariat would in particular concern
itself with the establishment and periodic review of general feed policy
guidelines, preparation of annual estimates of the sources and distribution
of feed, feed export/import decisions and the size of emergency feed stocks.
The Executive Secretary would coordinate the work of the price policy, feed
distribution and cost accounting advisers, who would be attached to the
secretariat during the initial years of the project.
2.        Qualifications.  The Executive Secretary would be a qualifted and
experienced administrator, with at least five years' experience in an adminis-
trative position, preferably in government service. He should have at least
a university degree, and preferably post-graduate study, in economics, public
administration, or in the area of livestock production, with practical expe-
rience in these or closely related fields. A background in research or exten-
sion work would be desirable.
Price Policy Adviser
3.        Duties.  Under the authority of the Executive Secretary of the Na-
tional Feed Policy Committee, and in collaboration with the staff of the GOF
and the Meat Bureau of the General Supply Institution, the Price Policy Adviser
would be responsible for:
(a) Advising on price levels of feed and meat and price relation-
ships between various feeds and between feed and meat;
(b) Drawing up general guidelines for establishing price levels
for feed and meat; and
(c) Training of local staff.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
In the discharge of his duties, the Adviser would take into account:
(a)  The overall low price level in Syria, state intervention and
control of prices and their effects:
(b) Costs of production of various feed commodities and meat:
(c) Present conversion ratios of feed to meat and possible im-
provements in the ratios; and
(d) Price levels of feed, livestock and meat in neighboring coun-
tries and legal and illegal export/import possibilities.
4.        Qualifications.  A university degree in agricultural economics and
preferably post-graduate work in price policy. Candidates must have at least
7 years experience in a government department or marketing board concerned
with establishing pricing policy and commodity price levels.
Feed Distribution Adviser
5.        Duties.  Under the authority of the Executive Secretary of the Na-
tional Feed Policy Committee, and in collaboration with the staff of GOF, the
Feed Distribution Adviser would be responsible for:
(a) Advising on the distribution of available feed resources in
order to satisfy the nutritional requirement of livestock to
a given standard of performance at least cost, with due con-
sideration of the needs of the various livestock sub-sectors
and their comparative advantage of production: and
(b) Training of local staff.
In the discharge of his duties the Adviser would:
(a) Assist in establishing standards of performance of all cate-
gories of livestock, taking into consideration present levels
of performance and those which might be obtained in the fore-
seeable future;
(b) Assist in establishing the nutrient specifications of all avail-
able feedstuffs:
(c)  Recommend ration formulations and feeding rates for each class
of livestock.
(d)  Assist in determining the need for inportina feed as well as
export possibilities and making recommendations accordingly.



.XIEx 8
rage 3
6.        Qualifications.  A university degree in agricultural science, pre-
ferably with an animal husbardry and/or agricultural economics bias, or the
equivalent. Candidates must have broad professional experience of at least
7 years in livestocl nroductior ar.d nutrition and first-hand knowledge of
feed commodity values on the world market.  Candidates should also have ex-
perience ir. least-cost ration formulation.
Cost Accounting Adviser
7.        Duties.  Under the authority of the Executive Secretary of the Na-  o
tional Feed Policy Committee, and in collaboration with the staff of GOF and
the Cereals Organization, the Cost Accounting Adviser would be responsible
for:
(a)  Reviewing present systems of cost accounting, taking account
of government regulations concerning general accounting pro-
cedures in public sector institutions!
(b)  Assessing the suitability of present systems in allowing
identification of cost elements and in allowing close watch
over current operatirg cost and administrative overhead;
(c)  Recommending guidelines for cost accounting and for cost
monitoring which would be compatible with Government account-
ing regulations, and
(d) Training of local staff.
8.        Qualifications.  A university degree in cost accounting or business
finance, or the equivalent. Candidates should have at least 7 years expe-
rience in cost accounting in a public sector commodity marketing organization
or in a large commodity trading firm.
Feed Stock management Adviser
9.        Duties.  Under the authority of the Director-General of GOF and in
collaboration with local staff (and particularly the management of coopera-
tives), the Stock Management Adviser would be responsible for:
(a)  Ensuring that feed mater4als which are required to be stored
suffer minimum loss and damaae;
(b) Ensuring that costs of movement in and out of store as well
as during storage are at a minimum;



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(c) Initiating and ensuring the execution of a system of stock
inventory and managemert;
(d)  Keeping under review all methods of feed handling and storage
and making recommendations for improvements in efficiency; and
(e)  Training of local staff.
10.       Qualifications.  Candidates must have broad experience in warehous-
ing techniques and systems, with particular reference to feed materials, in-
cluding methods of control of rodents and insects which attack feedingstuffs.
Laboratoy Equipment Adviser
11.       Duties.  tinder the authority of the Director of the Central Veterin-
ary Laboratory and in collaboration with the laboratory staff, the Equipment
Adviser would be responsible for:
(a) Assisting in the selection of new laboratory equipment,
arranging for its procurement and supervising its installa-
tion;
(b) Supervising the operation and maintenance of both existing
and new equipment;
(c) Assisting in the installation of basic services such as
electrical systems, air conditioning systems, gas and water;
and
(d) Training of local staff.
12.       Qualifications.  A university degree in engineering, preferably with
an electrical or mechanical engineering bias.  Candidates must have at least
7 years experience in procuring, installing, operating and maintenance of
biological laboratory equipment.
13.       The total provision for ronsixltants tinder the project would be:



A>NEX 8
Page 5
Months
Price policy adviser                             12
Feed distribution adviser                        18
Cost accounting adviser                           6
Feed stock management adviser                    12
Laboratorv equipment adviser                     24
Total                            72
June 1976



ANNEX9
Table I
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVEL/7PMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
National Bre-dinR  Flock S-r,th Pro1RCCEoRO - Without Proec t
YerA
Item             Pre-ent
Situation     1        2       3       4        5      6         7       8       9        10      11       12      13      14       15      16       17      18       19      20
-________________________--____------thooRsed head ---------- -
Breedion RR
Total mated                5,140   4,678   4,896   4,935   5,022   5,097   5,176   5,202   5,228   5,254   5,280   5,306   5,332   5,359   5,386   5,413   5,440   5,467   5,494   5,521   5,549
Ieee de ths                  514     468      490     493      502     510     518      520     523     525      528     531      533     536      539     541     544      547     549      552     555
LeRa offtake
"Ir slsghhtRI              411     374      391     395     402      408     414     416      418     420      422     424     426      429     431      433     435      437     439     442      444
for fattening              360     327      342     345     352      357     362      364     366     368      370     371     373      375     377      379     381      383     384      386     388
On hee.d Rod of year       3,855   3,509   3,673   3,702   3,766   3,822   3,882   3,902   3,921   3,941   3,960   3,980   4,000   4,019   4,039   4,060   4,080   4,100   4,122   4,141   4,162
Breediny r-ns
On hand hei.Rning of yr.    243       223     232     235      239     234     246      248     249      250     251     253      254     255      256     258      259     260      262     263      264
L.a. daths                    24       22      23      23       24      24       25      25      25       25      25      25       25      25       25      26       26      26       26      26       26
Less nffteke fer slaughter   48       45       46      47       48      49      49       50      50      SO       50      SO       50      SO      5       52       52      52       52      52      52
On hand end of year          171      156     163     165      167     170      172     173     174      175     176     178      179     180      180     180      181     182      184     185      186
Rise replate,sts
Oheed hegfsing of Y          945   1,594   1,450   1,517   1,530   1,557   1,S17   1,524   1,532   1,539   1,547   1,553   1,562   1,571   1,579   1,086   1,594   1,602   1,608   1,618   1,627
Lees deaths  94     159     145     552      153     156~~~~~i  152   152     153      154     15       55       56     15       18       59159           160      161     162      163
Lessefftske fr slaghter   28          48       43      45       46      47      45       46      46      46       46      46       47      47      47       47       48      48      48       48      49
On hssd end of year          823   1,387   1,262   1,320   1,331   1,354   1,320   1,326   1,333   1,339   1,346   1,352   1,354   1,367   1,374   1,380   1.387   1,394   1,399   1,408   1,415
RB  e1laI-nts
On hand begcnning of yP       60       88      83      85       88      88       88      88      88       88      89       88      88      88       90      92       92      93       92      92       92
Les deaths                     6        9       8       8        9       9        9       9       9        9       9       9        9       9        9       9        9       9        9       9        9
Lesseifft.ke                   2        3       3        3       3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3       3       3        3       4        4       4        4       4        4
On hnd end  fyar              52       76      72       74      76      76       76      76      76       76      77       76      76      76       78      79       79      80       79      79       79
Yeatlie wale Ia hs
On hand b gisnn-   of yr.    257      334     309     325      326     332      344     353     355      357     359      375     377     380      382     383      383     385      386     390      393
Less offtake
fon slsoghteriig           180     234     716      227     228      232     241      247     248     250      251     262      264     266     267      268     268      269     270      273     275
for fattening               77     102       93      98       98     100     103      106     107     107      108     113      113     114      115     115      I15     116     116      117     118
Onhad -defy-r                         -       -            -       -        -       -       -        -           -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Males weaned               1,593   1,450   1,518   1,530   1,SS7   1,605   1,630   1,639   1,647   1,655   1,706   i,724   1,733   1,742   1,750   1,359   1,768   5,777   1,788   1,794   1,804
Les ofLtake
for sIaughte-              450     406      425     428     436      450     456      459     461     463      480     483      485     488     490      492     495      498     500      502     505
for fattening              721     652      683     688     701      723     733      737     741     745      772     776      780     784      787     792      796     800     803      807     812
On hand end of year
for replaneeseta            88      83       85      88       88      88      88       88      80      88       89      88       88      88       90      92       92      93       92      92       92
for sale as yearlings      334     309      325     326      332     344     353      355     357     359      375     377      380     382      383     383      385     386      390     393     395
e-les weaned               1,594   1,450   1,517   1,530   1,557   1,606   1,630   1,638   1,647   1,655   1,716   1,725   1,733   1,741   1,751   1,759   1,768   1,776   1,786   1,794   1,803
Less efftake                 -        -       -        -                89      103     106     108      108     163      163     162      162     165     165      166     168      168     167      169
for replan.eents         1,594   1,450   1,517   I,53O   1,557   1,S17   1,527   1,532   1,539   1,547   1,553   1,562   1,571   1,579   1,586   1,594   1,602   1,608   1,618   1,627   1,634
---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---  pe -e tag    I     --------- ----- ---~---- -~~~~------------- ----------- ------------ -----------
ProdcLtion Ceefficie-ts
Wening rets                    62      62      62       62      62       63      63      63       63      63      65       65      65       65      65       65      65       65      65       65      65
Adult aertality                10      10      10       10      18      10       10      10       10      10      10       10      10       10      10       10      10       10      10       10      10
Offtaks, sl-ught-r
Puss                         8       8        8       8        8       8        8       8       8        8       8        8       8       8        8       8        8       8        8       8        8
Eii                         20       20      20      20       20      20       20      20      20       20      20       20      20      25       25      20       20      20       20      20       20
Replanesteves                3        3       3        3       3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3       3        3       3        3       3        3       3       3
Sspla enent rs               4        4       4       4        4       4        4       4       4        4       4        4       4        4       4       4        4       4        4       4        4
Y-arlin.g                   70       70      70       70      70      70       70      70      70       70      70       70      70       70      70      70       70      70       70      70       70
La,=s (sles)                28       28      28      28       28      28       28      28      28       28      28       28      28       28      28      28       28      28       28      28       28
I bS  (feele)               -        -       -        -       -        5        6       6       6        6       9        9       9        9       9       9        9       9        9       9        9
Fattening
fuss                         7       7        7       7        7       7        7       7       7        7       7        7       7        7       7       7        7       7        7       7        7
Ye-allnge                   30       30      30       30      30      30       30      30      30       30      30       30      30       30      30      30       30       30      30      30       30
Lbs  (-.le.)                45      45       45      45       45      45       45      45      45       45      45      45       45      45       45      45       45      45       45      45       45
Surne:  FAO/World 8Rak Ceoperati-e Pr-gra-  Preparation Report and eission putisates.
Juse 1976



ANNEX 9
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
SYRIA
National Breeding Flock Growth Prolactions - With Project
Year
Item                                     Situation      1          2          3         4          5          6          7          8          9          10-19          20
---------- --- ---- ------- -----------------------   thousand   head   ---------------------------------------------------------
Breeding ewes
Total mated                                    5,140       4,678      4,896      4,723      4,875      5,013    5,246        5,461     5,654      5,654         5,654       5,654
Less deaths                                      514         468        441        301        341        351       367         382        396        396          396         396
Less offtake
for slaughter                                  411         374        392        378        390        401      420         437        452        452          452         452
for fattening                                  360         327        588        567        585        602      630          655       678        678          678         678
Os hand end of year                            3,855       3,509      3,475      3,477      3,559      3,659    3,829        3,987      4,128     4,128         4,128       4,128
Breeding rams
On hand beginning of year                        243         223        233        225        232        239       250         260        269        269          269         269
Less deaths                                        24          22        21         16         16         17        17          18         19         19           19          19
Less offtske for slaughter                         48         44         58         56         58         59        62          65         67         67           67          67
On haed end of year                              171         157        154        153        158        163       171         177        183        183          183         183
Ewe replacenents
On hand beginning of year                        945       1,594      1,450      1,591      1,653      1,803    1,855        1,895      1,734      1,734        1,734       1,734
Less deaths                                        94        159        130        113        116        126       130         133        121        121          121         121
Less offtake for slaughter                         28         48         72         80         83         90        93          95         87         87           87          87
(In hand end of year                             823       1,387      1,248      1,398      1,454      1,587    1,632        1,667      1,526      1,526        1,526       1,526
lam replanements
On hand beginning of year                          60          88        84         90         92        100       102         105         99         99           99          99
Less deaths                                         6           9         8           6         6          7         7           7          7          7            7           7
Less offtake                                        2           3         5          5          5          6         6           6          6          6            6           6
On hand end of year                                52          76        71         79         81         87        89          92         86         86           86          86
Yearling male labs
On hand beginning of year                         257         334       305        302        248        198       204         214        222        230          230         230
Less offtake
for slaughter                                  180         234        153        151        124         99      102          107        111       115          115          115
ton fattening                                   77         102        152        151        124         99       102         107       111        115           115         115
Onhandendofyear                                    -           -          -          -          -         -         -           -          -          -            -           -
Males weaned                                   1,593       1,450      1,591      1,653      1,804      1,855    1,941        2,020      2,092      2,092        2,092       2,092
Less offtabe
for slaughter                                  450         414        464        482        528        542       568        597         620        620          620         620
for fattening                                  721         647        735        831        978      1,007    1,054       1,102      1,143      1,143        1,143       1,143
On htnd end of year
for replana-ants                                88          84         90         92        100        102       lO5          99         99         99           99          99
for sale as yearlings                          334         305        302        243        198        204       214         222       230        230           230         230
Females weaned                                 1,594       1,450      1,591      1,653      1,803      1,855    1,941        2,021      2,092     2,092         2,092       2,092
Less oftake                                      -           -         -          -          -          -         46         287        358        358          358         358
fot replacements                             1,594       1,450      1,591      1,653      1,803      1,855    1,895        1,734     1,734      1,734         1,734       1,734
Prod.cti..~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ oefi.iat  --------------------------------------- per-et ---------~----~~--------------------------------
Production coefficients-pret
Weaning rate                                       62          62         65         70        74         74        74          74         74         74           74          74
Adult mrtality                                     10          10          9          7         7          7         7           7          7          7            7           7
Offtake
For slaughter
Ewes                                           8           8          8          8          8          8         8           8          8          8            8           8
Ras                                           20          20         25         25         25         25        25          25         25         25           25          25
Replacement ewes                               3           3          5          5          5          5         5           5         5          5             5           5
Replacement rams                               4           4          6          6          6          6         6           6          6          6            6           6
Yearlings                                     70          70         50         50         50         50        50          50         10         50           50          50
Lamb  (males)                                 28          28         29         29         29         29        29          29         29         29           29          29
For fattening
Ewes                                           7           7         12         12         12         12        12          12         12         12           12          12
Yearlings                                     30          30         50         50         50         50        50          50         s0         50           50          50
Lambs (males)                                 45          45         46         50         54         54        54          54         54        54            54          54
Lambs (females)                               -           -          -          -          -          _         _           14         17         17           17          17
Source: FAO/World Bank Ctoperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
Jlne 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
National Sheep Flock Production Projections - Without Project
Present                                                                           Year
Item            Unit     Situation   1        2       3      4       5        6       7       8        9      10      11     12      13      14     15      16      17     18      19      20
Meat Production
Anisals Sold
Lambs from pasture        '000 head      450     406    425    428    436    539         559     565    569       571     643    646    647    650    655    657    661    664    668    669    674
Lambs for fattening           "          721     652    683    688    701    723        733      737    741      745      772    776    780    784    787    792    796    800    803    807    812
Cull ewes from pasture                   411     374    391    395    402    408        414      416    418      420      422    424    426    429    431    433    435    437    439    442    444
Cull ewes fattened            "          360     327    342    345    352    357        362      364    366      368      370    371    373    375    377    379    381    383    384    386    388
Cull rams from pasture        "           48      45      46      47     48      49       49      50      50       50      50      50     50      50      51     52      52      52     52      52      52
Yearlings from pasture                   180     234    216    227    228    232         241     247    248      250      251    262    264    266    267    268    268    269    270    273    275
Yearlings fattened                        77      102     93      98     98    100       103     106    107       107     108    113    113    114    115    115    115    116    116    117    118
Average Livewseight
Lambs from pasture           kg           25       25     25      25     25      25       25      25      25       25      26      26     26      26      26      26     26      26      26     26      26
Lambs for fattening           "           40      40      40      40     40      40       40      40      40       40      40      40     40      40      40     40      40      40     40      40      40
Cull ewes from pasture                    31      31      31      31     31      31       31      31      31       31      32      32     32      32      32      32     32      32      32     32      32
Cull ewes fattened                        41      41      41     41      41      41      41       41      41      41       41      41     41      41      41     41      41      41     41      41      41
Cull rams from pasture        "           45      45      45      45     45      45       45      45      45       45      47      47     47      47      47      47     47      47      47      7      4
Yearlings from pasture                    35      35      35      35     35      35      35       35      35      35       36      36     36      36      36     36      36      36      36     36      36
Yearlings fattened            "           55      55      55     55      55      55      5        5       5        5       5       5      "       "       5       5      5       5       5 
Total Liveweight
Lambs from pasture        '000 ton      11.25   10.15  10.62  10.70  10.90  13.47   13.97   14.12  14.22   14.27   16.72  16.80  16.82  16.90  17.03  17.08  17.19  17.26  17.37  17.39  17.52
Lambs for fattening                     28.84   26.08  27.32  27.52  28.04  28.92   29.32   29.48  29.64   29.80   30.88  31.04  31.20  31.36  31.48  31.68  31.84  32.00  32.12  32.28  32.48
Cull ewes from pasture        '         13.61   11.59  12.12  12.24  12.46  12.65   12.83   12.90  12.96   13.02   13.50  13.57  13.63  13.73  13.79  13.86  13.92  13.98  14.05  14.14  14.21
Cull ewes fattened            "         14.76   13.41  14.02  14.14  14.43  14.64   14.84   14.92  15.01   15.09   15.17  15.21  15.29  15.37  15.46  15.54  15.62  15.70  15.74  15.83  15.91
Cull rams from pasture        "          2.25    2.02   2.07   2.11   2.16   2.20    2.20    2.25   2.25    2.25    2.35   2.35   2.35   2.35   2.40   2.44   2.44   2.44   2.44   2.44   2.44
Yearlings from pasture        "          6.30    8.19   7.56   7.94   7.98   8.12    8.43    8.64   8.68    8.75    9.04   9.17   9.50   9.58   9.61   9.65   9.65   9.68   9.72   9.83   9.90
Yearlings fattened            "          4.23    5.61   5.11   5.39   5.39   5.50    5.66    5.83   5.88    5.88    5.94   6.21   6.21   6.27   6.32   6.32   6.32   6.38   6.38   6.43   6.49
Total                              81.24   77.06  78.83  80.04  81.36  85.50   87.28   88.15  88.64   89.07   93.60  94.35  95.02  95.56  96.09  96.57  96.98  97.46  97.82  98.35  98.95
Milk Production
Ewes lambing              '000 head    3,495   3,181  3,329  3,356  3,415  3,517   3,571   3,589  3,607   3,625   3,749  3,767  3,786  3,805  3,824  3,843  3,862  3,882  3,901  3,920  3,940
Ewes milking                            2,621   2,386  2,497  2,517  2,561  2,638   2,678   2,692  2,705   2,719   2,812  2,825  2,839  2,854  2,868  2,882  2,896  2,911  2,926  2,940  2,955
Yield per ewe                kg           55      55      55     55      55      55      55       55      55      55       56      56     56      56      56      56     56      56      56     56      56
Production                '000 ton     144.1   131.2  137.3  138.4  140.8  145.1   147.3   148.1  148.8   149.5   157.5  158.2  159.0  159.8  16.01  161.4  162.2  163.0  163.9  164.6  165.5
Wool Production
Animals shorn             '000 head    6,085   6,272  6,346  6,452  6,552  6,654   6,693   6,726  6,760   6,793   6,827  6,859  6,894  6,930  6,965  6,999  7,034  7,069  7,102  7,139  7,176
Yield per head               kg           2       2       2      2       2       2       2        2       2        2       2       2      2       2       2       2      2       2       2      2       2
Production                '000 ton       12.2    12.5   12.7   12.9   13.1   13.3    13.4    13.4   13.5    13.6    13.7   13.7   13.8   13.9   13.9   14.0   14.1   14.1   14.2   14.3   14.3
Source:  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Paper and mission estimate.
June 1976



ANNEX 9
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
National Sheep Flock Production Proiections--With Proisct
Present                                                    Years
Item                                            Unit    Situation                    2         3         4         5          6         7         8       9-19       20
Meat Production
Animals Sold
Lambs from pasture                               '000 head       450         414       464       482        528       542       568       597       620       620      620
Lambs fattened                                        "          721         647        735      831        978    1,007      1,100    1,389      1,501     1,501   1,501
Cull ewes from pasture                                "          439         422        464       458       473       491       513       532       539       539      539
Cull ewes fattened                                     '         360         327        588       567       585       602       63  -tt  655        678       678      678
Cull rams  from pasture                               "           50           47        63        61        63        65        68        71        73        73       73
Yearlings from pasture                                "          180          234       153       151       124        99       102       107       111       115      115
Yearlings fattened                                    "           77          102       152       151       124        99       102       107       111       115      115
Average Liveweight
Lambs from pasture                                   kg           25           26        27        28        28        28        28        28        28        28       28
Lambs fattened                                        "           40           42        43        44        44        44        44        44        44        44       44
Cull ewes from pasture                                "           31           33        35        36        36        36        36        36        36        36       36
Cull ewes fattened                                    "           41           43        45        46        46        46        46        46        46        46       46
Cull rams from pasture                                            45           48        50        52        52        52        52        52        52        52       52
Yearlings from pasture                                "           35           37        38        39        39        39        39        39        39         39      39
Yearlings fattened                                    "           55           56        56        57        57        57        57        57        57        57       57
Total Liveweight
Lambs from pasture                                '000 ton    11.25        10.76     12.53    13.50    14.78    15.18    15.90    16.72    17.36            17.36   17.36
Lambs fattened                                                 28.84       21.17    31.60    36.56    43.03    44.31    48.40    61.12    66.04    66.04   66.04
Cull ewes from pasture                                "        13.61       13.93    16.24    16.49    17.03    17.68          18.47     19.15     19.40     19.40   19.40
Cull ewes fattened                                    "        14.76       14.06    26.46    26.08    26.91    27.69    28.98    30.13            31.19    31.19   31.19
Cull rams from pasture                                "         2.25         2.26     3.15       3.17      3.28      3.38      3.54      3.69      3.80      3.80    3.80
Yearlings from pasture                                "         6.30        8.66      5.81      5.89       4.84      3.86      3.98      4.17      4.33      4.48    4.48
Yearlings fattened                                    "         4.23        5.71       8.51      8.61      7.07      5.64      5.81      6.10      6.33      6.55    6.55
Total                                                     81.24       82.55   104.31   110.30   116.93   117.74   125.08   141.08   148.45   148.83  148.83
Milk Production
Ewes bombing                                       '000 head    3,495         3,181    3,525    3,542    3,802    3,910    4,092    4,260    4,410    4,410   4,410
Ewes milking (757. of ewes lambed)                       "       2,621        2,386    2,644    2,656    2,851    2,932    3,069    3,195    3,307    3,307   3,307
Yield per ewe                                          kg            55          55        58        60        60        60        60        60        60         60      60
Production                                          '000 ton   144.15        131.23   153.35   159.36   171.06   175.92   184.14   191.70   198.42   198.42  198.42
Wool Production
Aniimals shorn                                     '000 head    6,085         6,272    6,346    6,314    6,528    6,816    7,101    7,356    7,388    7,388   7,388
Yield per head                                         kg             2           2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2          2       2
Production                                          '000 ton       12.2        12.5      12.7      12.6      13.1      13.6      14.2      14.7      14.8      14.8    14.8
Source:  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FTRST LTVEsIrOK nFVFLOPMENT PROJFCT
SYRIA
Incremental Production of National Sheep Flock
Year
Item                           Before
oevelopment    1         2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9        10       11       12       13       14       15      16       17       18       19       20
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- thousand to  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Without Proiect
Meat (liveweight)                     81.2         77.1    78.8    80.0    81.4    85.5    87.3    88.1    88.6    89.1    93.6    94.3    95.0    95.6    96.1    96.6    97.0    97.5    97.8    98.3    98.9
Milk                                 144.1         131.2   137.3   138.4   140.8   145.1   147.3   148.1   148.8   149.5   157.5   158.2   159.0   159.8   160.1   161.4   162.2   163.0   163.9   164.6   165.5
Wool (greasy)                         12.2         12.5    12.7    12.9    13.1    13.3    13.4    13.4    13.5    13.6    13.7    13.7    13.8    13.9    13.9    14.0    14.1    14.1    14.2    14.3    14.3
With Prolect
Meat (liveweight)                     81.2         82.5   104.3   110.3   116.9   117.7   125.1   141.1   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4   148.4
Milk                                 144.1         131.2   153.3   159.3   171.1   175.9   184.1   191.7   198.4   198.4   198.4   198.4   198,4   198.4   198.4   198.4   198.4   198.4   198.4   198.4   198.4
Wool (greasy)                         12.2         12.5    12.7    12.6    13.1    13.6    14.2    14.7    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8    14.8
Incremental Production
Meat (liveweight)                      -            5.4    25.5    30.0    35.5    32.2   37.8          53.0    60.0    59.3    54.8    54.1    53.4    52.8    52.3    E1.8    51.4    50.9    50.6    50.1    49.5
Milk                                   -             -      16.0    20.9    30.3    30.8   36.8         43.6    49.6    48.9    40.9    40.2    39.4    38.6    38.3    37.0    36.2    35.4    34.5    33.8    32.9
Wool (greasy)                          _             _       _       (0.3)    -         0.3    0.8        1.3     1.3      1.2      1.1      1.1      1.0     0.9      0.9      0.8      0.7      0.7      0.6     0.5      0.5
Value of Incremental Production
at financial far                    ---te  -rices-----------------------------------------------------------            US$ millio  -------------io--___________________________________________________________
Meat (liveweight)                      -            7.3    34.7    40.8    48.3    43.7   51.4          72.0    81.6    80.6    74.5    73.6    72.6    71.8    71.1    70.4    69.9    69.2    68.8    68.1    67.3
Milk                                   -             -       2.6      3.4      4.9      5.0    5.9       7.1      8.0      7.9      6.6      6.5      6.4     6.3      6.2      6.0      5.9      5.7      5.6     5.5      5.3
Wool (greasy)                          -             -       -       (0.3)    -         0.3    0.9        1.4     1.4      1.3      1.2      1.2     1.1       0.9      0.9     0.8      0.7      0.7      0.6      0.5      0.5
Total                -            7.3    37.3    43.9    53.2    49.0   58.2          80.5    91.0    89.8    82.3    81.    80.1    79.0    78.2    77.2    76.5    75 6    75.0    74.1    73.1
at economic farmgate PricesL
Meat (liveweight)                      -            5.9    28.0    33.0    39.0    35.4   41.6          58.3    66.0    65.2    60.3    59.5    58.7    58.1    57.5    56.9    56.5    56.0    55.7    55.1    54.4
Milk                                   -             -       2.6      3.4      4.9      5.0    5.9       7.1      8.0      7.9      6.6      6.5     6.4      6.3      6.2      6.0      5.9      5.7      5.6      5.5      5.3
Wool (greasy)                          -             -        -      (0.4)    -         0.4    1.0        1.7     1.7      1.6      1.4      1.4      1.3      1.2     1.2      1.0      0.9      0.9      0.8      0.6      0.6
Total                -            5.9    30.6    36.0    43.9    40.8   48.5          67.1    75.7    74.7    68.3     67.4    66.4    65.6    64.9    63.9    63.3    62.6    62.1    61.2    60.1
I-cremental Flock Vaue.Z                 -             -       _-                                                                                                                                                            45.6
/1  Meat (liveveight) US$1,360/ton;  milk US$163/ton;  wool US$1,088/ton.
72  Meat (liveweight) US$1,1OQ/ton;  milk US$163/ton;  wool US$1,300/ton,
3  Valued at liveweight meat prices.
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
Preparation Report and mission eatieate.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
APPRAISAL OF                                         Table 1
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Bedouin Sheep Flock - Member of Range and Sheep Cooperative
Flock Projection
Year
Present    __________________________________________
Item              Situation       1       2       3      4       5       6       7       8       9      10   11-20
----------------------------------- head ----------------------------------------
Breeding ewes
Total mated                    80     75      80      80      86      88      88     88      88      88      88      88
Less deaths                     8      7       6       4       4       4       4      4       4       4       4       4
Less offtake                   11     11      15      15      17      18      18     18      18      18      18      18
On hand end of year            61     57      59      61      65      66      66     66      66      66      66      66
Breeding rams
On hand beginning of year    4          5      4       3       4       4       4      4       4       4       4       4
Less deaths                     -       1       -      -       -       1       -       -      -       1       -       -
Less offtake                    1       1      1       1       1       1       1      1       1       1       1       1
On hand end of year             3       3      3       2       3       2       3       3      3       2       3       3
Ewe replacements
On hand beginning of year   15        26      24      27      25      24      24     24      24      24      24      24
Less deaths                     1       2      2       1       1       1       1       1      1       1       1       1
Less offtake                    -       1      1       1       1       1       1       1       1      1       1       1
On hand end of year            14      23     21      25      23      22      22     22      22      22      22      22
Ram replacements
On hand beginning of year    2          1       -      2       1       3       1       1       2      2       1       1
Less deaths                     -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      1       -       -       -
Less offtake                    -       -      -       -       -       1       -       -      -       -       -       -
On hand end of year             2       1       -      2       1       2       1       1      1       2       1       1
Yearling male lambs
On hand beginning of year    4         5       5       5       4       4       4      4       4       4       4       4
Less offtake                    4      5       5       5       4       4       4      4       4       4       4       4
On hand end of year             -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -
Lambs
Males weaned                   26      24      27     29      33      34      34      34     34      34      34      34
Less offtake                20      19      20      24      26      29     29      28      28      29      29      29
For replacements              1      -       2       1       3       1       1      2       2       1       1       1
For sale as yearlings        5       5       5       4       4      4       4       4       4       4       4       4
Females weaned                 26     24      27      29      33      34      34     34      34      34      34      34
Less offtake                  -       -      -       4       9      10     10      10      10      10      10      10
For replacements            26      24      27      25      24      24     24      24      24      24      24      24
-------------------------------- percent  ---------------------------------
Production coefficients
Weaning rate                   65      65      68     73      77      77      77      77      77     77      77      77
Adult mortality                10      10       8      5       5       5       5       5      5       5       5       5
Offtake
Ewes                         13     14      19      19      20      20      20     20      20      20      20      20
Rams                         20     20      25      25      25      25      25     25      25      25      25      25
Replacement ewes              3      3       5       5       5       5       5      5       5       5       5       5
Replacement rams              4      4       6       6       6       6       6      6       6       6       6       6
Yearlings                  100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100
Lambs                       38      39      37      49      54      59     59      57      57      59      59      59
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Bedouin Sheep Flock - Member of Range and Sheep Cooperative
Sales Projections
Year
Present
Item                      Unit        Situation           1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9           10          11-20
Animals Sold
LZZms-                         head             20             19         20         28         35         39         39         38         38         39         39              39
Cull ewes                       "               11             12         16         16         18         19         19         19         19         19         19              19
Cull rams                       "                1              1          1          1          1          2          1          1          1          1          1               1
Yearlings                        "               4              5          5          5          4          4          4          4          4          4          4               4
Average Liveweight
T-mbs                           kg              27             27         29         31         31         31         31         31         31         31         31              31
Cull ewes                       kg              35             35         38         40         40         40         40         40         40         40         40              40
Cull rams                       kg              50             50         54         57         57         57         57         57         57         57         57              57
Yearlings                       kg              38             38         41         43         43         43         43         43         43         43         43              43
Total Liveweight
Lambs                           kg             540            513        580        868      1,085      1,209      1,209      1,178      1,178      1,209      1,209           1,209
Cull ewes                       kg             385            420        608        640        720        760        760        760        760        760        760             760
Cull rams                       kg              50             50         54         57         57        114         57         57         57         57         57              57
Yearlings                       kg             152            190        205        215        172        172        172        172        172        172        172             172
Sub-total                   kg          1,127          1,173      1,447      1,780      2,034      2,255      2,198      2,167      2,167      2,198       2,198          2,198
Income from Sale of Animals
Lambs    s                      LS          2,484           2,360      2,668      3,993      4,991      5,561      5,561      5,419      5,419      5,561      5,561           5,561
Cull ewes42                     LS           1,771          1,932      2,797      2,944      3,312      3,496      3,496      3,496      3,496      3,496      3,496           3,496
Cull rams!l                     LS             230            230        248        262        262        524        262        262        262        262        262             262
Yearlings g                     LS             760            950      1,025      1,075        860        860        860        860        860        860        860             860
Sub-total                   IS          5,245          5,472      6,738      8,274      9,425    10,441    10,179    10,037    10,037    10,179    10,179                10,179
Income from Milk
Ewes milking                  head              43             40         44         47         52         53         53         53         53         53         53              53
Yield                        kg/ewe             60             60         63         65         65         65         65         65         65         65          65             65
Produc7on                       kg           2,580          2,400      2,772      3,055      3,380      3,445      3,445      3,445      3,445      3,445      3,445           3,445
Value    n                      LS           1,548          1,440      1,663      1,833      2,028      2,067      2,067      2,067      2,067      2,067      2,067           2,067
Income from Wool
Animals shorn                 head              95            101        104        107        111        112        112        112        112         112        112            112
Yield                        kg/head             2              2          2          2          2          2          2          2           2          2          2              2
Produg5ion                      kg             190            202        208        214        222        224        224        224        224        224        224             224
ValueL_                          LS            760            808        832        856        888        896        896        896        896        896         896            896
Total Income                       LS          7,553          7,720      9,233    10,963    12,341    13,404    13,142    13,000    13,000    13,142    13,142                  13,142
Sold for LS 4.60 per kg liveweight.
Sold for LS 5.00 per kg liveweight.
75% of ewes lambing                                                                                                                                                                      I
Sold for LS 0.60 per kg.                                                                                                                                                                 1°
Sold for LS 4.00 per kg.
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
5-year Average Annual Producer Income
Member of Sheep and Range Cooperative
(80 ewe semi-nomadic sheep flock)
Present   Full development
Item                Situation   With project /1                   Increase
---------- LS --------------                      %
Sales 12
Meat                    5,245             10,179                        94
Milk                    1,548               2,067                       33
Wool                      760                 896                       18
Total sales         7,553             13,142                       74
Operating Costs
Feed/3                  1,828               3,238                       77
Watering/4                48o                 528                       10
Veterinary expenses/5.    48                  106                     121
Head tax /6               278                 321                       15
Short-term credit/7        40                  66                       65
Total cost          2,674              4,259                       59
Net Returns               4,879               8,883                       82
---------US$-
1,328              2,417
L   About year 6 of project.
2  From Annex 10, Table 2.
Estimated at LS 22.85 and LS 36.80 per breeding unit, respectively;  all con-
centrates for supplemental feeding.
/4 Assuming LS 6 per breeding unit.
/5 LS 0.60 without and LS 1.20 with the project.
LS 2.65 for each animal over 1 year of age.
/7 Without project: two thirds of feed reauirements financed interest-free
through NFRF, the remainder through private dealer at 20% interest p.a.; with
project: 80% financed at 8.5% p.a. interest through NFRF, and remainder
paid cash.
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimate.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Average Producer Income in Drought Year
Member of Sheep and Range Cooperative
(80 ewe semi-nomadic sheep flock)
Present          Full development
Item                  Situation          with project /1         Increase
Sales    12      ----------------------   LS   ---- --- --- ---- --- ---
Sales /2…S
Meat                     3,446                10,434
Milk                       183                   301
Wool                       912                   948
Total sales         4,541               11,683                 7,142
Operating Costs
Feed/3                   5,150                 9,960
Watering/-                 492                   507
Veterinary expenses/5       49                   101
Head tax /6                299                   308
Short-term credit/7        255                   219
Total cost          6,245               11,095                 4,850
Net Returns               .1,704                   588                2,292
_______------------- US$ --------------------------
-464                  160                   624
/1 About year 6 of project.
/2 Present drought year sales: ewes 568 kg (liveweight) at LS 3.70,lambs,
yearlings and rams 320 kg at LS4.20, milk 305 kg at LS 0.60, and wool
228 kg at LS 4. Future, with project, drought year sales: ewes 737 kg
at LS 3.70, lambs, yearlings and rams 1,835 kg at LS 4.20, milk 502 kg
at LS 0.60, and wool 237 kg at LS 4.
/3 Present drought year feed costs based on current prices, except for a
75% increase in average year barley price. Future, with project,
drought year: annual feed price based on current prices, except for a
20% increase in average year barley price; emergency feed price of
LS 0.67/kg for a 50 kg feed allocation per breeding unit.
/4  Assuming LS 6 per breeding unit.
/5 LS C.60 without and LS 1.20 with the project
/6 LS 2.65 for each animal over 1 year of age.
/7 Present drought year: two thirds of feed requirements financed
interest-free through NFRF, the remainder financed through private
dealer at 20% interest p.a. with loan outstanding over 9 months. Future,
with project, drought year: 80% of annual feed financed by NFRF with
8.5% interest p.a. over 4 months and balance of feed self-financed;
emergency feed half self-financed and half with ACB loan at 4% interest
p.a. for 1 year.
Source: FAO/WB Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
June 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Producer Income - Member of Sheep Fattening Cooperative
Full Development
Item                         Without Project  With Project
Assumptions
Number of batches fattened per year                       3              3
Average number of sheep fattened per year               345            460
Number of sheep by type
lambs                                                 114            207
yearlings                                             159            124
ewes                                                   72            129
Average liveweight at purchase/sale (kg/head)
lambs                                                20/35          23/39
yearlings                                            32/54          32/54
ewes                                                 29/40          33/44
Average purchase/sale price (LS/kg liveweight)
lambs                                              4.60/4.60      4.60/4.60
yearlings                                          5.00/5.00      5.00/5.00
ewes                                               4.60/4.60      4.60/4.60
Value of wool and manure (LS/head)                     5.00           5.00
Feed price (LS/l,O00 F.U.)                              449            428
Feed consumed
lambs & ewes 100 F.U.
yearlings 130 F.U.
Investment in feedlot (160 head capacity)             2,300          2,300
320 m2 @ LS 100 = LS 32,000
20% self-financing and 80% loan from
ACB at 4% repaid over 15 years
Sales                                                  ---------LS---------
Meat                                                 74,532         96,725
Other:  manure and wool                               1,725          2,300
Less: 2% for mortalities
Total sales                                     74,732         97,044
Costs
Feeder animals                                       45,533         61,323
Feed                                                 17,632         21,280
Water, electricity (LS 1.00/head)                        345           400
Veterinary expenses (LS 0.60/1.20/head)                 207            552
Labor (½ man @ LS 3,000/yr)                           1,500          1,500
Debt service
repayment principal and interest                    2,300          2,300
construction loan
interest on feed loans!!                            1,175          1,447
Maintenance of feed yard/2                            1,280          1,280
Total cost                                      69,972         90,142
Net Return                                              4,760          6,902
Net Return (US$)                                        1,295          1,878
Increase:                                                        45%
/1 Without project: 20% p.a. over 1/3 of feed needs (private credit); other 2/3 of
feed financed interest free by NFRF.   With project: 8.5% over 4 months, for each
batch, over 80% of feed needs; remainder self-financed.
/2 4% on investment.
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report and mission estimates.
June 1976



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LTVFSTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Economic Analysis
Rate of Return
1.        The quantifiable economic benefits of the project together with the
emergency feed reserve would be the incremental production of meat, milk and
wool obtained through stahilizing and increasing the feed availability to
flock owners and sheep fatteners, and through the strengthening of veterinary
services. These benefits have been valued over the 20-year life of the proj-
ect at economic prices reflecting export parity prices in regional markets
and the long-term price projections provided by the Bank's Economic Analysis
and Projections Department.
2.        The economic costs were obtained by deducting from financial costs
price contingencies, and making adjustments for taxes and subsidies. The
incremental value of the breeding flock, the cost of establishing the NFRF
cooperative feed fund and the emergency feed reserve as well as the assets of
the drug revolving fund. after a 15% adjustment for possible defaults, have
been added to the benefits in the last project year to reflect their residual
value.
3.        Based on the economic benefits and costs, as defined above, a 21%
economic rate of return was estimated for the project (Table 1). A number
of sensitivity tests were made on the rate of return (Table 2). These tests
showed that, if the two most adverse hypothesized conditions would occur to-
gether, the rate of return would not fall below 9%.
Benefits not Included in Rate of Return Calculation
4.        The non-quantified economic benefits of the project and the emergency
feed reserve, while not reflected in the rate of return. greatly support its
justification. They would include:
(a)  higher income stability for flock owners and consequent reduc-
tion in their degree of financial dependence or private mer-
chants and money lenders;
(b)  increased productivity in other livestock subsectors due to
the general effect of feed price stabilization and improved
veterinary services;



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(c)  the demonstration effect of the success of sheep cooperatives
on small farmers' interest in joining cooperatives in general;
(d)  the support for the experiment to design an organization form
which facilitates the provision of Government services to prev-
iously hard-to-reach Bedouins and which provides incentives for
more rational range management.
Emergency Reserve of Domestic Feed Grain vs. Export/Import
5.        The basic justification for an emergency reserve of concentrate
feed is the insurance of having a guaranteed stock under public sector con-
trol which can be allocated rapidly in cases of drought emergency to avoid
disastrous reduction of the breeding flock. The emergency reserve would
also exercise a moderating influence over otherwise speculative trade by the
private sector in whatever small quantities of feed are available in drought
years.
6.        Two main considerations enter into the choice between such an em-
ergency reserve and the alternative of permitting barley to be exported during
surplus years and, importation of barley in drought years: first, the timely
delivery of minimum emergencv requirements must be assured, and second, the
cost of the export/import solution should not be significantly higher than
the real cost of creating and holdirg the domestic reserve.
7.        The leadtime required for procurement, i.e. locating supplies,
placing order, shipping, and clearing through port of entry, and for distri-
bution of adequate quantities of imported feed grain to flock owners in the
areas affected by drought was estimated at a minimum of 2 to 3 months. To be
effective, however, the distribution of emergency feed must begin immediately
after the identification and declaration of a drought.  After 2 to 3 months
the need for emergency feed would have ceased since by that time flocks would
have access to crop residue in the rainfed and irrigated farming areas. During
the 1972/73 drought, orders for barlev were placed abroad but they arrived
after considerable slaughtering of both production and breeding stock had
already taken place. In addition, speculative buying of barley in 1972/73
drove local prices up 40%' over the official Government-set price for that
year and more than 75% over the official price ir normal years. As the im-
ported feed grain could not be made available to end users within the required
time, the export/import alternative was rejected. iloreover, a comparative
cost analysis of the two alternatives shows the emergency feed reserve only
at a slight disadvantage (Table 3).
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMRYT PROJECT
SYRIA
EconAoc Rate of Return
Project Year
Item                                          I        2         3         4        5         6        7         a        9         10        11       12        13       14        15        16       17        18        19       20
--------------------   --------------------- - - -------------------------------- US$ 0  lli$    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Costs
1. Project invesue9 eLJ                            23.8      10.3      8.8       8.9       8.7      0.3        -
2.  R.plecenot cost                      /3           -        -         -        -         -        -        0.6        -        -         -        -        1.1       -         -         -        -        0.5
3.  Increeestal i-vest_et. - feed Iota-              5s.5     5.5       3.6      3.6       3.6        -        -
4.  Incrent-l oparatinag cost - sheep flock         25.7     26.1      23.9     26.1      29.6     33.5      36.5     37.8      37.8     36.9      36.9      36.9     36. 1     36.1      36.1     35.2      35.2     34.3      34.3      34.3
5.  Incrmest.l op.r.ting coat - fatteiog             1.2      1.2       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8 0.8            0.8       0.8                                                       0.8      0.8       0.8       0,8      0.8       0.8
6.  Incrental operatioR cost - sotm4l he1Sh           -        -         -        -         -       0.5       0.7      0.8       0.7       0.8      0.7       0.8      0.7       0.8       0.7      0.8       0.7      0.8       0.7       0.8
servic          _        -         -
Total iecrastal co.t                     56.2      43.1     37.1      39.4     42.7      35.1     38.6      39.4     39.3      38.5     38.4      39.6      37.6     37.7      37.6      36.8     37.2      35.8      35.8     35.9
Benefits
1.  In.cr.etal valua of praduction/5                5.9      30.6      36.0     43.9      40.8     48.5      67.1     75.7      74.7     68.3      67.4      66.4     65.6      64.9      63.9     63.3      62.6     62,1      61.2      60.3
2.  Increnot-l vl  oE nbrredSog f1lok/5               -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -         .        _       45.6
3.  Re.idal valw  of project i.sveateets              -        -         -        -         -        -         _         _        _         _        _         _         _        _         _         _        _         _                89.5
Total i-crmeotal benefits                 5.9      30.6     36.0      43.9     40.8      48.5     67.1      75.7     74.7      68.3      67.4     66.4      65.6     64.9      63.9      63.3     62.6      62.1      61.2    195.4
Net I-aerenstel bRaefits                            (50.3)   ( .5       (1. 1)    4.5      (.9       13.4     28.5      36.3     35.4      29.8     29.0      26.8     28.0      27.2      26.3     26.5      20.4      2        2.       159.5
Ecosic Rate of Retuzn:  21%
L1  Pr. Aosei 5, including physical cootisgegeiea.
/2  Veterinary laboratory equipst replaced after 10 years; veterin-ry field equip-et adc vehicles replaced every 1 years.
/ Csdtitru-tion by sheep fatt ners of feed lots, a.sa ig a  aver-age 160-head caparity and a unit cost of LS 32,000 fer the in-reseotal osaber of sheep to ba fattened (400,000 head).
4Icileldd to project coat during ieple.entatios period.
Valued at e"ooodc prics.
L. Scludes NFRF sd GOF adssisitered project f.sds and drug revolving fund, acsucig a 15% lose dte to defaults.
Source:  Mission rstimates.
J.o. 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Sensitivity Analysis - Economic Rate of Return
Assumptions                                        Rate of Return
/1
1.  Basic run                                           21
2.  Project investment costs increased                  18
by 25%
3.  Operating costs increased by 10%                    17
4.  Incremental value of production decreased           15
by 10%
5. Incremental value of production decreased
by 15%                   13
6. A 10% increase in operating costs combined
with a 15% decrease in the incremental
value of production                                9
/1 See Table 1.
Source: Mission estimates.
June 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
Comparative Cost Analysis of Stocking
of Domestic Barley vs. Export/Import
LS/ton
Cost of Emergency Reserve Feed Ex-Warehouse
Producer price (1974/75)                                                   460
Plus:  loading and unloading at buying point                                10
administrative overheads
at buying point                                                25
at warehouse                                                   18
transport to warehouse                                              18
loading to and unloading at warehouse                                 8
losses (3% p.a. over 2 years)                                        28
Subtotal                                                      567
financial cost of holding reserve
(8.5% over an average of 2 years)                                  100
Total                                                         667
Less: Producer price
=    Cost of establishing and holding reserve                            207
Cost of Export/Import Alternative
Export Returns
FOB price (1975)                                                           386
Less:  loading and unloading at buying point                                10
administrative overheads at buying point                            25
losses (3%)                                                         10
transport to port (600 km at LS 4.4/100 km)                         26
port handling, loading, etc.                                        10
administrative overheads for exporting (3%)                         12
Total                                                         293
Cost of Imported Barley (rendered warehouse)
CIF price (1975)                                                           424
Plus:  loading and handling at port                                         10
losses to warehouse (2%)                                             8
transport port to warehouse (500 km at LS 4.4/100 km)               22
administrative overheads for import procurement                     12
administrative overheads for warehousing                            10
Total                                                         486
Differential between net export return and net import cost                    193
Source: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Preparation Report
and Cereals Organization.
June 1976



APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR
PROJECT ELEMENT                                                                                           _
1976          1977           1978           1979          19B0          1981
Financing Annual Purchased Feed
Needs of Cooperatives                                                                                                                P M
Reinforcement of Animal Health Services
Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles
Construction of Sheep Dipping Centers                                    _
Financing Operational Expenses                                                    -                      --                          -
Technical Assistance
National Feed Development Scheme
- Price Policy Adviser
- Feed Allocation Adviser
- Cost Accounting Adviser
- Stock Management Adviser_
Animal Health Services
- Laboratory Equipment Adviser                                                                 -
Studies
- Manpower and Training Needs for Animal Health Services
- Review of Feed Pricing Policies                                            _
- Feed Financing for Members of Sheep Cooperatives
(Baseline Study and Subserwlent Quarterly Monitoring)               _               _      _
World Bank-16196






APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SYRIA
LEAST COST SYSTEM OF MOVING FEED MATERIALS BY 1980
140,000 ton retained by producers
77,000 ton in private traders' hands
To feed mills                         Imports 195,000 ton
'-0/1 /                                               Production 115,000 ton
0_0                                            0   Exports 65X000 ton
BARLEY                          WHEAT BRAN                    COTTONSEED CAKE                   MAIZE, SORGHUM,
PRODUCTION                      PRODUCTION                    PRODUCTION                        SO.IA MEAL, BEET
(incl. screenings                                               PULP, MOLASSES,
and broken wheat)                                               LIMESTONE
420,000 ton                     135,000 ton                   140,000 ton                       310,000 ton
0
0~~~~
E 
c
0                       o              t    Private producers           0.  E
C                                                                      C
co                      ra4
0                                                                       0
GOVERNMENT WAREHOUSES                      COOPERATIVE WAREHOUSES                                    FEED MILLS
(Capacity 245,000 ton)                      (Capacity 155,000 ton)                                    Aleppo, Hama and
Carry over to build reserve:                Barley (annual use)             100,000 ton               poultry stations
Average 43,000 ton per year              Bran (2 months stock)            13,200 ton               395,000 ton per year
Maximum reserve:                           Cottonseed cake (2 months stock)    4,000 ton
215,000 ton
Total:                       117,200 ton
3/                                                               
Sales-1
Seeds      20,000 ton                                                                        1    Livestock
Private
livestock
operators   35,000 ton
1/ Exports are 78,000 ton during 4 years and nil 1 year out of 5 (drought).
2/ 1,500 ton per month for 10 months during 4 years; 4,000 ton per month for
10 months during 1 year out of 5 (drought).
3/ Volume of sales would allow rotation of emergency stocks in most years.
4/ 5,000 ton per year during 4 years; 45,000 ton during the drought year
(of which 40,000 ton for emergency use).                                                           World Bank   15309






iD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                              - II UO -D --  - - - - -/ -- -
NN, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~
-pe  e                                  I                                                  / I. 
ON393' -                                                                                                                                               /   _ _ __N; | IN33A3dOOM NON / ;U
////  Io        B               I               ""                                                 +  F>//                             /S   I  tss  Io iSIVUdd
/~~  ~           ~~~~       -.                  s     oo  aN                                                                                /         |  
-~~ ~ ~                     3 33 jnIa lVOlVOssg                                                                           /                 ,ux1n.oau vs ,sIV LII
i ~ ~  ~   ~   .     j                                                     N11  /uw v nA     Ot   0V                        i n  A  tl/
l~~~~ -                                    r                                 -                                                                 /}
-                                         vef I                           N /
lYW4Nern            IU NI                    N>s01jJ                                                
! ~  ~ ~~~~~ II                                      uinluvZ_......                                                                                                         4u                   X
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                            I      
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asb)es  3l(v3I L It.VlS I
I~~~~~~~~                                                                                            \ fldOlVUOGWlV oln3uliC3 
VI8AS
I33COdd 1N3W~dO13A30 )ZO01S3AI1 ISHIA
iu 7VSIV8JddV






1.    ,9                        - -                     " -                                                                  ''1.,,I
_~~~~~-              .S                          9   9  :| ;tj>09  '- s ;tgA9          ;jn   ;2799/949/,  9991  9999  99  '     A.
90                E     9~99~99  999993999-  e                                                                      A
A - s v * IXs S _%OIID1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    _________________
A  -i'"|9999~r44M '                                             04 ,J t  /                                                                             -qD-WD S; 
, ~ ~     ~     ~     4        A r''          N    919 2   .    . ]2"Xi     //\                                                                     -- '$   
r9 4                                                                                        A                                       '9                                 4 9 /t . /49cv
:    X                tw    ,, _, A~~~ H  SE ~F4 w                                                                      qq-                                   msc
YJ6LLS                                          Viv
99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
999  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
~~~t6j94U93 Q41 I



