CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1311-SYR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(First Livestock Development Project)
between
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBJIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 22, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1976, between SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide ad-
ditional assistance towards the financing of the Project under the
Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window established by Resolu-
tion No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the Bank and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement) the Bank
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand dollars
($12,500,000) (hereinafter called the Intermediate Term Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend that the proceeds of
this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan be disbursed pro rata
on the basis of a 1:2.5 ratio; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guer-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MAAR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "GOF" means General Organization for Feed, an agency
of the Borrower under the jurisdiction of MAAR, established and
operating pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 390 of the Borrower,
dated February 26, 1974, as amended, or any successor thereto;
(c) "NFRF" means National Feed Revolving Fund, an agency of
the Borrower under the jurisdiction of MAAR, established and op-
erating pursuant to Law No. 65/T of the Borrower dated June 19,
1972, as amended, or any successor thereto;


﻿-3-
(d) "NFPC" means National Feed Policy Committee, a committee
of the Borrower chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and whose
membership includes representatives of all departments and agencies
of the Borrower concerned with the production, marketing or con-
sumption of feed, and such term includes any successor thereto;
(e) "ACB" means Agricultural Cooperative Bark, an agency of
the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Legislative
Decree No. 141 of the Borrower, dated July 25, 1970, as amended,
or any successor thereto; and
(f) "LS" means Syrian Pound, the currency of the Borrower.


﻿4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dol-
lars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required to be signed, under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions shall be taken or signed by the Minister of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform or such other person or persons as he may designate
in writing.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
tkrough MAAR, NFPC, GOF, NFRF and ACB with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, admin-
istrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MAAR and the agencies of the
Borrower responsible for the carrying out of any part of the
Project to cooperate effectively with each other in the execution
of the Project.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Parts A and E of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall (a) not later than October 31, 1976, or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, establish and
thereafter maintain within NFPC an adequately staffed secretariat
headed by an executive secretary whose qualifications and experi-
ence shall be satisfactory to the Bank and who shall be directly
responsible to the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform;
and (b) employ a price policy adviser, a feed distribution adviser
and a cost accounting adviser whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist said NFPC's secretariat.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Animal Health Department
of MAAR in carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall


﻿-7-
employ a laboratory equipment adviser whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, as from the Effective
Date of this Agreement, make adequate arrangements to establish
over a period of three years and thereafter maintain an emergency
feed reserve for the purpose of providing adequate feed resources
during drought years to sheep producers.
(b) The Borrower shall cause GOF to (i) appoint a Director
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank to be
solely responsible for the establishment and operation of the
emergency feed reserve referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
and (ii) employ a feed stock management adviser whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall (a) prepare in consultation
with the Bank the terms of reference for the studies referred to
in Parts D and E of the Project; (b) not later than June 30, 1977
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, furnish to
the Bank, for its review, the results and recommendations of said
studies; and (c) not later than December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Bank, (i) inform the Bai.k of its
proposed program to implement such recommendations and (ii) ini-
tiate such implementation.


﻿-8-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall (a) without any limitation
or restriction upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, make such annual budgetary allocations to NFRF as shall
be required to enable NFRF to carry out Part B2 of the Project;
(b) cause NFRF to make loans to members of sheep cooperatives for
the purchase of feed on the terms and conditions set forth in Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; and (c)
cause NFRF to be the only agency of the Borrower responsible for
the provision of credit to sheep producers for the purchase of
feed other than the emergency feed referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause GOF and MAAR to (a)
submit to the Bank for its coments, not later than December 31,
1976 or such other datz, as shall be agreed with the Bank, plans
for rodent and insect control in the feed warehouses operated by
GOF and sheep cooperatives respectively and (b) implement such
plans not later than June 30, 1977 or such other date as shall be
agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.08. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall (a) provide to the Animal Production Department of MAAR all
such funds, facilities, services and other resources as shall be
required for its Sheep and Range Section to carry out (i) its
supervision responsibilities with respect to NFRF's day-to-day
operations and (ii) its obligations under Part BI of the Project
and Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement; and (b) cause NFRF
to strengthen its accounting capability commensurately with the
increase in its lending responsibilities under Part B2 of the
Project.


﻿,l- 9-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause the Animal Production
Department of MAAR to monitor at all times the shortfall of avail-
able feed required by sheep producers in the Borrower's territory
through MAAR's provincial extension services.
Section 3.10. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall make available to GOF, as and when needed, by way of grant,
such funds as shall be required to finance the cost of the ser-
vices of the feed stock management adviser referred to in Section
3.o (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause the Animal Health
Department of MAAR (a) to charge, after a 3-year demonstration
period, beneficiaries of veter-'iary services (i) the equivalent
of 50% of the cost of pharmaceuticals provided under Part C of
the Project and vaccines administered to their sheep during the
fourth year of the Project and (ii) the full cost of such pharma-
ceuticals and vaccines from the fifth year of the Project onward;
and (b) to allocate the funds collected under (a) of this Section
to a revolving fund which shall be used exclusively for the pur-
chase of pharmaceuticals and for the production of vaccines.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to"
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribu-
tion of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally
and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the cre-
ation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative sub-
divisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 12 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MAAR, NFRF and GOF to (i) estab-
lish, not later than October 31, 1976 or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Bank, and thereafter maintain, separate accounts
for the purposes of the Project, (ii) have such accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of said accounts for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of


﻿- 13 -
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Animal Health Department
of MAAR to (i) establish not later than the beginning of the
fourth year of the Project and thereafter maintain a separate ac-
count for the pharmaceutical and vaccine revolving fund referred
to in Section 3.11 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) have such ac-
count audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause MAAR to establish and
implement, not later than June 30, 1977 or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Bank, a system acceptable to the Bank to
monitor effectively the vegetative changes in the range areas used
by the sheep and range cooperatives in the Borrower's territory.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause MAAR to initiate in
consultation with the Bank, not later than December 31, 1977 or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, field studies
to measure the effect of the use of feed concentrates on the pro-
duction of sheep belonging to members of range cooperatives.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that a change has been made in
the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 390 dated February 26, 1974,
as amended, or in the Borrower's Law No. 65/T dated June 19, 1972,
as amended, or in the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 141 dated
July 25, 1970, as amended, which materially and adversely affects
the carrying out or operation of the Project by GOF, NFRF or ACB,
respectively.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the executive secretary of NFPC referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement has been appointed and has taken up
his post;
(c) the price policy adviser, the feed allocation adviser
and the cost accounting adviser referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of
this Agreement have been appointed by NFPC and have taken up their
respective posts;
(d) the laboratory equipment adviser referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement has been appointed by MAAR and has taken
up his post; and
(e) the emergency feed reserve Director and the feed stock
management adviser referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agree-
ment have been appointed by GOF and have taken up their respective
posts.


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or certificate to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the execution and delivery
of the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary govern-
mental action.
Section 6.03. The date October 20, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrover:
Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform
Damascus, Syria
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By Is Sabah Kabbani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of this Loan
and of the Intermediate Term Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of this Loan and of the Intermediate
Term Loan, the allocation of the amounts of both Loans to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of this
Loan and of the
Intermediate Term
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Credit under              11,300,000          57% of eligible
Part B2 of the                               expenditures
Project
(2) Equipment,                 3,100,000          100% of foreign
Pharmaceuticals                              expenditures or
and vehicles                                 70% of local
under Part C of                              expenditures
the Project
(3) Experts'                     400,000          100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(4) Unallocated                2,700,000
TOTAL     17,500,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "eligible expenditures" with respect to Cate-
gory (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
shall mean:
(i) disbursements made by NFRF until December 31, 1976
and
(ii) thereafter the increment of aggregate disbursements
made by NFRF in any calendar year in comparison with
the maximum of aggregate disbursements made by NFRF
in any preceding year.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of this Loan or
of the Intermediate Term Loan shall be disbursed on account of pay-
ments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan decreases or


﻿- 21 -
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or de-
crease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as
required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made (a) in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (b) in respect of
expenditures under Category (1) in any calendar year after 1976,
until the Bank has received a summary record of all disbursements
made by NFRF under Part B2 of the Project during such calendar
year.
5.    The proceeds of this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
shall be disbursed pro rata on the basis of a 1:2.5 ratio.
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of this Loan and
of the Intermediate Term Loan or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of this Loan and of the Interme-
diate Term Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-
allocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the es-
timated shortfall, proceeds of this Loan and of the Intermediate
Term Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applic-
able to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under


﻿it2-2
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
T.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of this Loan or
of the Intermediate Term Loan. and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under this Agreement or the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of this Loan and of
the Intermediate Term Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of said Loan
and Intermediate Term Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase and to stabilize
the Borrower's sheep production and the incomes of semi-nomadic
flock-owners and sheep fatteners in the Borrower's territory
through improved feed availability and veterinary services. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of the organizational framework including
NFPC, GOF, NFRF and ACB, to be responsible for defining
and implementing feed policies aiming at optimizing,
on a national basis, the use of available feed materials
and feed storage facilities.
Part B:   1.   Establishment of about 12 range cooperatives
and about 12 sheep fattening cooperatives.
2.   Provision of credit to members of sheep cooperatives
to finance the purchase of about 240,000 tons of
feed annually.
Part C:   Provision of vehicles, equipment, pharmaceuticals,
vaccines and technical assistance and construction of
about 7 sheep dipping centers for the Animal Health
Department of MAAR to improve its animal health services.


﻿-24-
Part D:   Carrying out of a study of the manpower requirements
and staff training needs for animal health services in
the Borrower's territory.
Part E:   Carrying out of a study to review feed prices and feed/
meat price relationships and to make recommendations
for a more rational feed price policy.
*         *          *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1981.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1981                                     80,000
April 1, 1982                                       85,0Oo
October 1, 1982                                     90,000
April 1, 1983                                       95,000
October 1, 1983                                    100,000
April 1, 1984                                      105,000
October 1, 1984                                    105,000
April 1, 1985                                      115,000
October 1, 1985                                    115,000
April 1, 1986                                      125,000
October 1, 1986                                    125,000
April 1, 1987                                      135,000
October 1, 1987                                    140,000
April 1, 1988                                      145,000
October 1, 1988                                    150,000
April 1, 1989                                      160,000
October 1, 1989                                    165,000
April 1, 1990                                      175,000
October 1, 1990                                    180,000
April 1, 1991                                      190,000
October 1, 1991                                    195,000
April 1, 1992                                      205,000
October 1, 1992                                    215,000
April 1, 1993                                      225,000
October 1, 1993                                    235,000
April 1, 1994                                      245,000
October 1, 1994                                    255,000
April 1, 1995                                      265,000
October 1, 1995                                    280,000
April 1, 1996                                      300,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of
the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.35%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          7.10%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                          7.95%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   The feed purchased with the aid of NFRF financing under
Part B2 of the Project shall be procured by members of the sheep
cooperatives through local shopping.
2.   Pharmaceuticals required under Part C of the Project
may be procured through international shopping on the basis of at
least 3 quotations from overseas suppliers.
3.   Vaccine required under Part C of the Project shall be
produced by the Central Veterinary Laboratory of MAAR; if necessary,
additional quantities shall be procured through international shop-
ping on the basis of at least three quotations from overseas sup-
pliers.
4.   Vehicles required for the Project shall be procured
through international competitive bidding under procedures consist-
ent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines).
5.   Equipment required under Part C of the Project shall be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally,
under procedures acceptable to the Bank or, if international
shopping is found more appropriate, on the basis of at least 3
quotations from overseas suppliers.


﻿- 28 -
6.   The requirements for vehicles, equipment and pharmaceu-
ticals shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement as shall
be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
7.   Contracts for civil works required for the construction
of the sheep dipping centers under Part C of the Project shall be
let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to any contract for vehicles:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 29 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to (i) any contract for equipment subject
to international shopping and estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more; (ii) any contract for pharmaceuticals; and (iii)
any contract for vaccines subject to international shopping:
(a) Before requesting quotations from suppliers, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the technical speci-
fications and shall make such modifications to the said specifica-
tions as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) After quotations have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the supplier to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the quotations received, and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 5
Credit provided by NFRF
Terms and conditions of the loans made by NFRF to members of
sheep cooperatives under Part B2 of the Project:
(a) loans to members of sheep and range cooperatives shall
be amortized over a period ranging from 3 to 12 months and shall
bear interest at the rate specified in paragraph (c) below.
(b) loans to members of sheep fattening cooperatives shall
be amortized over a period ranging from 90 days to 120 days and
shall bear interest at the rate specified in paragraph (c) below.
(c) members of sheep cooperatives whose annual household
income, based on 1976 prices, in the year preceding their applica-
tions for loans under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Schedule
shall be less than LS 3,500, shall be eligible for borrowing from
NFRF at the rate of 5.5% per annum, provided that they show evi-
dence, satisfactory to NFRF, of their income levels for such pre-
ceding year, such income levels to be assessed by NFRF in accor-
dance with criteria acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Members of sheep cooperatives whose annual household income,
based on 1976 prices, in the year preceding their applications for
loans under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Schedule shall be
LS 3,500 or more shall pay interest at the rate of 7.5. ier annum.
(d) the interest charged under paragraph (c) above shall
accrue to NFRF's revenues.


