Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Report No. 16472
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2384-MOZ)
April 9, 1997
Macroeconomics I
Southern Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =      Metical (MT); pl. Meticais
US$1                      =      MT  2,2131
US$1                      =      MT 11,4622
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -      African Development Bank
AGRICOM    -        State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
BM           -      Banco de Mocambique
BCM                 Banco Comercial de Mo,cambique
BPD          -      Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
CG           -      Consultative Group
CNP          -      Comissao Nacional do Plano (National Commission of Planning)
ERC          -      Economic Recovery Credit
ERP          -      Economic Rehabilitation Program
ESAF         -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GCPI         -      Gabinete de Coordenacao dos Programas de Importa,co
(Department for the Coordination of Import Programs)
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
IDA          -      International Development Association
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
MOH          -      Ministry of Health
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
OECD         -      Organization for Economic and Cooperation and Development
PFP          -      Policy Framework Paper
SNAAD        -      Sistema de Alocacao Nao-Administrativa de Divisas
(System for Non-Administrative Allocation of Foreign Exchange)
UTRE         -      Enterprise Restructuring Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President         :      Callisto Madavo
Director                      Phyl I's Pomerantz
Technical Manager             Ataman Aksoy
Staff Member           .      Rene Bonnel, Principal Economist
Secondary Market exchange rate as of April 1992 (Source: President's Report of 5/18/192) .
2October, 1996.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...........................................................   i - iv
Part I: Program  Implementation Assessment ..........................................1........ 
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .....................................1........ 
B. Achievement of Program Objectives ..................................................    5
C. Bank Performance ....................................................  10
D. Borrower Performance  .......................      ..............................   10
E. Assessment and Conclusion  ....................................................  11
Part II: Statistical Tables .       ..........................................................   14
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2:   Related Bank Operations .16
Table 3:  Project Timetable.                                                     1 7
Table 4:  Disbursements .17
Table 5:        Key Indicators: Actuals and Projected, 1992-96                   18
Table 6:    Studies Included in the Credit .20
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 8:    Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs.                               22
Table 9:    Bank Resources - Missions.                                          23
Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Assessment of Privatization Program
C. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2384-MOZ)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery
program in Mozambique, for which Credit 2384-MOZ in the amount of
SDR 132.0 million (US$180.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 11, 1992 and
made effective on August 3, 1992.
The Credit closed on June 30, 1996, one year after the original closing date. The
first tranche was released upon effectiveness. The second tranche was released on
September 1993. Final disbursement took place on November 22, 1996 and the
remaining balance of SDR21,038 was cancelled. Cofinancing for the credit was provided
by Switzerland (7.0 million Swiss Francs, US$5.7 million equivalent), Norway (36.6
Norwegian Kroner, US$5.1 million equivalent), Denmark (40.0 million Danish Kroner,
US$6.3 million equivalent, transferred from the Third Rehabilitation Credit), and ODA
(0.846 million, British Pounds, US$1.3 million equivalent, transferred from the Third
Rehabilitation Credit).
The ICR was prepared by Rene Bonnel, Sr. Economist and Task Manager,
AFTM1 and Carolina Machado, Operations Analyst, AFTM1. This report was reviewed
by Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Director for Mozambique and Ataman Aksoy, Technical
Manager, Macroeconomics 1, Southern Africa. The ICR was reviewed and approved by
the Borrower. Comments were also received from co-financiers.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in March 1996. It is based on discussions with Bank staff, on findings of the
completion mission, and on the President's Report, the Loan Agreement, and other
materials in the project files.






ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2384-MOZ)
Mozambique
Evaluation Summary
i.    The early 1990s marked a turning point for Mozambique. First, the long-lasting
military conflict between Renamo and government forces was replaced by peace
negotiations in 1992. Second, the economy was faced by substantial external shocks.
Aid from the Former Soviet Union stopped in 1991, and Mozambique lost key markets in
Eastern Europe. Then in 1992, the agricultural sector was devastated by the most severe
drought of the century. Third, the devastation caused by the civil war and the resulting
displacement of over one-third of Mozambique's population was accompanied by a rapid
increase in donors' assistance. To enhance the efficiency of the extraordinary level of
assistance provided by donors, significant institutional and policy changes were required.
Program Design and Objectives
ii.   These broad changes shaped the objectives of the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC), which was approved in June 1992. The primary objective was to establish a
policy and institutional framework that would be more appropriate when peace was
restored. Provided peace would be sustained, economic growth was expected to increase
sharply mainly because of the envisaged resumption of agricultural activities throughout
the country. This implied that a market-led development, favoring private enterprises,
would offer the greatest potential for economic recovery over the medium-term.
However, it was realized that the potential for a rapid supply response to policy changes
would be weak during the transition to peace, while there could be increased social costs
resulting from the expected adjustment. To alleviate these costs, the ERC was designed
to protect the living conditions of the poor by reversing the previous decline in budgetary
allocations for the social sectors and establishing a limited safety net for poor urban
households.
iii.   The ERC supported policy reforms aimed at: (i) improving the foreign exchange
allocation and the management of foreign aid; (ii) strengthening export incentives;
(iii) developing a commercially-oriented financial sector; (iv) privatizing state enterprises
in commercially-oriented sectors; and (v) redeploying public expenditures towards the
social sectors and the establishment of a targeted social safety net for the urban poor. The
implementation of these reforms required substantial technical assistance, which was
provided through existing IDA projects or bilateral assistance.



ii
iv.   In conjunction with the ESAF programs of the IMF, the ERC played a substantial
role in the mobilization of other forms of external aid, particularly import support funds.
Joint Bank/donor assessments in the context of annual Consultative Group meetings as
well as the 1993 SPA Joint Bank/Donor Evaluation Mission contributed to a better
understanding of Mozambique's exceptional need for financial assistance, and in
particular for untied import support funds. The substantial levels of project and balance
of payment support received by Mozambique were accompanied by significant debt relief
in the context of successive rescheduling with the Paris Club.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    Because the ERC was an integral part of a broad international financial support,
the specific impact of the ERC cannot be isolated. However, it is appropriate to assess
the global impact of the Government's reform program to which the ERC contributed.
Overall the outcome of the ERC is positive. The strong support the ERC has received
from donors and the continuation of the reforms since the Credit closed bode well for the
sustainability of the reform program. The main results are the following. GDP growth
has averaged 6 percent p.a. in real terms from 1991 to 1995 as a result of peace and
sustained adjustment. The administratively-managed allocation of foreign exchange has
been replaced by market-based allocation with the official exchange rate been determined
by market forces. Privatization has been quite successful. Some 32 large enterprises
were privatized. Including small and medium enterprises, about 700 firms out of
approximately 1,000 have been privatized. The private sector now commands well over
two-thirds of industrial output compared with less than one-third in 1990. The banking
sector was transformed from a state-dominated banking sector into a diversified set of
commercially-oriented financial institutions, consisting of private domestic and foreign
banks, including a credit cooperative bank and a leasing company.
vi.   Peace, the restoration of growth and the strong expansion of internal trade have
dramatically improved food security and the living conditions of the poor. especially in
rural areas. The number of families in need of food assistance declined from over one
million in 1994 to only 90,000 in 1996. Particularly noticeable has been the restructuring
of budgetary expenditures towards the social sectors and the increase in the provision of
social services: the volume of health services is estimated to have increased by 12
percent between 1993 and 1995, particularly in rural areas, while primary school
enrollment rates among 6-10 years old in rural areas increased from 24 percent in 1991 to
45 percent in 1994. At the national level, the previous decline was stopped, with the
primary enrollment rate rising from 54 percent in 1993 to 57 percent in 1995.
vii.   These are extremely encouraging results, but this assessment needs to be qualified
in three important aspects. First, to a large extent the economic record reflects recovery
from extremely depressed levels rather than progress along a firmly established growth
path. In addition, most of the increase in growth was due to the resettlement of about five
million refugees in rural areas and the successful transition to sustained peace and
political stability. Second, a difficult reform agenda still lies ahead. Although the



iii
condition of the poor has improved, poverty indicators are quite low by even the
standards of Sub-Saharan Africa.  Sustainable poverty reduction requires a lasting
improvement to the overall food situation, and this in turn implies the transformation
from subsistence to a more market oriented agriculture sector with increased linkages to
urban markets and agroindustries. In all these areas, complex institutional reforms are
needed to develop markets, particularly in rural areas, establish a modern financial sector,
and stimulate the creation of a competitive private sector. Third, with an external debt
amounting to 3.6 times GDP and 13 times exports, Mozambique faces an unsustainable
debt burden over the medium-term. Reducing it requires the combined implementation
of policies aimed at' reducing the financial burden of the debt as well as the country's
dependence on external financing.
viii.  Overall, progress towards macroeconomic stabilization has been elusive. Key
factors were the difficulties involved in coordinating large inflows of external aid, the
decline in fiscal revenues (as a percentage of GDP), and the country's limited institutional
capacity to accelerate the reform of the enterprise and financial sector. Because some of
the monetary and fiscal benchmarks were not met, the IMF was not able to complete its
mid-term review for 1995. However, the Bank and the Fund completed a new Policy
Framework Paper for 1996-98 and a new ESAF program was approved by the Fund
Board in June 1996. Progress since then has been good. Monetary control has been
tightened and the cumulated rate of inflation fell to 16 percent in 1996.
ix.   A key feature accounting for the overall positive outcome of the ERC was the
Government's commitment to the implementation of the reform program as well as the
strong financial support provided by donors. The Borrower was actively involved in the
design and implementation of the Credit, and clearly demonstrated ownership of the
program. Of particular importance, the Government's commitment to reform was
sustained and the implementation of the reform program since the Credit closed continues
to move ahead. Throughout the implementation of the ERC, donors maintained or
increased their financial commitment to the implementation of the reform program.
Substantial resources were made available to the government budget, which allowed the
Government to finance the exceptional expenditures resulting from the 1992 drought and
the Peace Agreement. Coordination between donors and Government was gradually
strengthened in the form of Government/donors working groups, which proved effective
in ensuring complementarity among donor assistance.
x.    An important constraint that affected the pace of reform was the need to
strengthen the country's institutional capacity. For various historical reasons, the country
found itself with a critical shortage of skilled human resources at a time when the need
for such resources was immense. While the country's commitment to the reform program
was quite strong, the time required for building the institutional capacity of the
Government constrained the reform program and prevented a rapid restructuring of
institutions and policies.



iv
xi.   The summary ratings (Table 1) are:
* Achievement of objectives: substantial
* Program sustainability: likely
*  Bank performance: satisfactory
* Borrower outcome: satisfactory; and,
* Assessment of outcome: satisfactory
xii.   The main conclusions and lessons are:
* Borrower ownership of the adjustment program is essential. Because of the
Government's strong commitment to the reforms supported by the ERC, the
implementation of the program proceeded despite the political uncertainty that
prevailed during the implementation of the Peace Agreement in 1992-94.
a A phased reform program allows for continued ownership of the reform
program by Government when the initial institutional capacity is limited. A
phased strategy allows the reform program to be designed so that it can be
implemented by the Government without excessive recourse to foreign
technical assistance. This makes it easier for the Government to maintain
ownership of its program, and to put the reform program back on track when
slippages occur.
-  Uneven progress in implementing the enterprise andfinancial sector reforms
creates substantial macroeconomic instability.  Because macroeconomic
stabilization cannot be achieved unless leakages from financial institutions
and enterprises are brought under control, simultaneous reform of the financial
and enterprise sector is required to bring under control the accumulation of
non-performing loans. The delays in carrying out such reforms account for
much of Mozambique's continued macroeconomic instability.
* Slow progress in reducing macroeconomic imbalances increases the social
costs of adjustment.  Difficulties experienced in rationalizing budgetary
expenditures made it more difficult to redirect expenditures towards the poor
and increase social expenditures on health and education. In addition, the
slow process in controlling inflation worsened the burden of adjustment for
the urban poor as well for the households that were net purchasers, of food
products.
* The reforms must be part of a broad program offiscal reform to increase the
efficiency of international aid. Because Mozambique is so dependent on
international aid, coordination and prioritization of donor aid is essential.
Moreover, the disbursement procedures for import support funds must be as
simple as possible if the objective is to finance the internal or the external
deficit. In particular, less restrictions on the use of funds for petroleum
imports would have resulted in much faster disbursement.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    After independence in 1975, Mozambique's economic development was stunted
by a variety of factors of which the most important ones were a centralized planning
system, a fifteen-year civil war and the exodus of most skilled labor at independence in
1975. By the mid-1980s, much of the economic and social infrastructure inherited from
the colonial period had been destroyed, GDP was only two-thirds and exports one-third
their post-independence peak (1980). Mozambique's debt had reached unsustainable
levels and poverty affected most of its population.
2.   In 1986, the Government decided to embark upon a reform program aimed at
reversing the decline in output and restoring orderly financial relationships with trading
partners and creditors. The Second Rehabilitation Credit (FY87) supported the first steps
towards reducing massive distortions (in prices and the exchange rate), decreasing
administrative controls, rehabilitating state enterprises, and mobilizing domestic
resources. The Third Rehabilitation Credit (FY89) continued the process by focusing on
improving the sectoral allocation of expenditures, tightening credit policy and initiating a
restructuring of public enterprises. It also contained trade reform measures.
A.   STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The overall impact of the Economic Rehabilitation Program implemented since
1987 was positive. It led to a reversal of the economic decline of the earlier 1980s with
GDP growing at 6.6 percent in 1986-90, which lent support to the appropriateness for
Mozambique of pursuing its reform program. The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
aimed to build upon these encouraging results as well as to address newly emerging
priorities.
4.   In 1991, when the ERC was prepared, domestic insecurity was widespread
throughout the country, but there were indications that a peace agreement could soon be
reached with RENAMO. The ERC was designed to establish a policy framework and an
institutional basis that would be most appropriate when peace would be restored. The
development of fiscal and credit policy instruments was seen as crucial for
macroeconomic stabilization, but it was determined that a more market-orientated
approach would provide the greatest potential for rapid economic recovery. This implied:
(i) establishing a transparent institutional process for privatizing state enterprises; and (ii)
adopting the legal and regulatory framework needed for the development of a modern
banking sector. Because of the perceived social costs of a rapid adjustment process, the
ERC was also designed to protect key social activities in health and education and
establish a targeted safety net in urban areas. This safety net would complement the
existing annual Emergency Appeal which provided humanitarian assistance in rural areas.



2
5.    The following policy reform areas were supported by the ERC:
(i)    Foreign exchange allocation and management of external aid. Actions
under the ERC included: (i) replacing the administrative management of
foreign exchange by a market-based system; (ii) contracting consultant
services to improve the accounting and reporting procedures applied to
import support funds; and (iii) maintaining the official exchange rate at a
market-related level.
(ii)   Pricing and marketing. The focus of the ERC was to: (i) reduce the
taxation of exports; (ii) simplify the regulations applying to rural traders to
promote domestic marketing; (iii) abolish the system of ex-post price
control for industrial products; and (iv) review the role of AGRICOM
(state marketing agency) in agricultural marketing and the role of
minimum prices.
(iii)  Financial sector. Prior to Board presentation, the Government prepared a
comprehensive outline for the reform of the financial sector. The first
phase to be supported under the ERC included: (i) the establishment of
the Bank of Mozambique (BM) and the Commercial Bank of Mozambique
(BCM) as separate entities; (ii) the preparation of an action plan to
restructure the Commercial Bank of Mozambique; (iii) the publication of
BM's and BCM's accounts; (iv) finalizing the regulations and procedures
for the licensing of new banks; and (v) liberalizing lending interest rates.
(iv)   State enterprises. The program contained two components. The first one
called for the establishment of a privatization process and the privatization
of at least five enterprises the first year. The second component consisted
of the formulation of a plan for transforming those enterprises that would
continue to remain state enterprises into commercially-oriented public
enterprises.
(v)   Budgetary Policies. The Government was to: (i) prepare a three-year
investment plan (1992-94) satisfactory to IDA; (ii) introduce an
harmonized system for the collection of counterpart funds; (iii) increase
expenditures from domestic sources on agriculture, health and education
by respectively 1.5%, 4.5% and 1% in 1993; (iv) increase expenditures on
drugs and medical supplies (procured by Medimoc) for the National
Health System to at least US$ 1 per capita by 1993; and (v) carry out an
inventory of donor and NGOs -supported health activities.
(vi) Poverty. The Government was to: (i) establish a coordinating body for
policy formulation; (ii) reform the food ration scheme and replace food
subsidies by targeted income transfers in urban areas; and (iii) prepare a
report on land distribution.



3
Evaluation of Credit Objectives
6.    The importance of structural reforms for attaining macroeconomic stabilization
was a central theme underlying the ERC. Mozambique faced large fiscal imbalances
which reflected a weak revenue base, insufficient recurrent funds for priority sectors, lack
of expenditure controls, as well as leakages from financial and non-financial public
enterprises. Because of the links with structural reforms, exchange rate, fiscal and
monetary policies focused on: (i) reforming the foreign exchange market to reduce the
fluctuations in the official exchange rate induced by shortages of foreign exchange; (ii)
controlling monetary expansion by restructuring the state banks and strengthening
monetary control by the central bank; (iii) increasing budgetary revenues by improving
the mobilization of import support funds generated by import support funds; and (iv)
imposing a harder budget constraint on enterprises by limiting budgetary subsidies.
7.    While there was a clear consensus on the need to deepen the reform program, the
strategy supported by the ERC was explicitly gradual. The Government took this
approach on the basis of three broad areas of concern. First, it was acknowledged that the
required adjustment was such that it required complex institutional changes that could
only be implemented in successive phases. This was particularly the case of the financial
sector reform where the issue was how to create a commercial banking sector given the
predominance of two state banks in credit allocation. The emphasis was, therefore,
placed on defining a medium-term action plan that would be supported first by the ERC
and then by a follow-up financial sector adjustment credit. Second, there was a concern
that a rapid adjustment would entail high costs that would not be politically sustainable,
especially given the already high level of poverty and the political uncertainty
surrounding the on-going negotiations with Renamo forces. Third, it was felt that the
widespread acceptance of the new decentralized and market-based approach would take
time.
8.    Foreign Exchange Management. The central theme of the reform was to unify
all the existing mechanisms for foreign exchange allocation and to create a market-based
system for the allocation of foreign exchange. The decision to allocate foreign exchange
through a market-based system was motivated by the experience gained under the Third
Rehabilitation Credit (FY89). This experience indicated that: (i) foreign exchange would
be allocated administratively unless the official exchange rate was at a market-related
level; (ii) a market for foreign exchange would not function satisfactorily unless import
support funds are untied and exporters can sell all their export earnings through that
market; and (iii) the payment of counterpart funds generated by import support funds
could not be monitored adequately unless import support funds were disbursed through
the banking sector.
9.    Policy reforms in marketing and price controls were necessary to allow for the
economic integration of the country to take place. Inter-provincial trade in agricultural
goods had been liberalized in June 1991, but several constraints prevented traders from
selling and buying crops throughout the country. In addition, the system of minimum



4
prices for agricultural goods was found ineffective as prices were nearly always set at the
minimum by state enterprises. Reforrns were, therefore, focused on removing the policy
constraints preventing traders from operating in rural areas, reviewing the role of
AGRICOM (the state marketing agency), and privatizing Caju de Mozambique (the
largest state-owned processing enterprise in the cashew sector).
10.   Financial Sector Reform. In 1991, Mozambique's financial sector was quite
rudimentary, consisting mainly of two state banks --the Bank of Mozambique, which
performed both central bank and commercial bank functions, and the Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento-- and one small private bank. This structure, similar to the one
typically found in centrally planned economies, was viewed as inappropriate for
supporting the development of Mozambique's private sector once peace would be
restored. This implied separating the Bank of Mozambique into a Central Bank (Bank of
Mozambique) and a commercial bank (the Commercial Bank of Mozambique),
establishing a legal framework for the entry of new banks, and separating and clarifying
the accounts of BM and BCM. The reform agenda was appropriate as it reflected the
priorities of the Government and the conclusions of a recent study of the financial sector.
11.   Enterprise Reform. The reform of the enterprise sector was a key requirement
for reducing the financial imbalances that were adversely affecting the banking sector.
However, privatization could not proceed rapidly because of the need to clarify the legal
situation of the so-called "intervened" enterprises. These enterprises had been taken over
by Government, but legally they still belonged to their initial owners.  Technical
assistance to prepare the enterprises for sale was provided by a separate IDA Enterprise
Restructuring Credit (Cr. No. 20810). The specification of policy actions was realistic.
The appraisal mission had discussed with Government what targets should be achieved,
and what privatization meant from the point of view of the second tranche
conditionalities.
12.   Budgetary Expenditures. The reforms in the area of public expenditures were
basically a continuation of the work started under the previous adjustment credit. By
1991, important progress had been made in terms of recording the great majority of
investment projects and aligning actual expenditures with the country's stated objectives.
However, there were indications that: (i) budgetary allocations for the social sectors were
declining in real terms; (ii) the institutional capacity of the Government was adversely
affected by the erosion of salaries; and (iii) the implementation of projects was hindered
by the lack of counterpart funds.
13.   The ERC supported the reallocation of expenditures towards the social sectors
(health and education) and the replacement of food subsidies by a social safety net
targeted to the urban poor. These measures, while modest, proved to be realistic. The
setting up of a social safety net was supported by an extensive analysis of various options
for targeting households on the basis of the data generated by the Ministry of Health and
combining that information with other income data.



5
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
14.   The overall structural objectives of the Credit were achieved. Growth accelerated;
the system of administered allocation of foreign exchange has been replaced by a market-
based system; the banking sector has been modernized and privatized; the state enterprise
sector has been largely privatized (two-thirds of output); and the social conditions of the
poor have greatly improved. These achievements have been made partly possible by the
1992 Peace Agreement signed by the Frelimo Government and the Renamo forces.
Following the demobilization of about 80,000 soldiers, Mozambique's first multi-party
elections were held in October 1994, returning Frelimo to power. A small army,
combining the previously adversary forces of Frelimo and Renamo, was formed, and
opposition parties participate fully in the political debate. The following paragraphs
highlight the main accomplishments and issues concerning the outcome of the program.
15.   Economic growth accelerated noticeably in 1992-95. Real GDP growth reached
6 percent p.a. on average in 1991-1995 compared to 5.1 percent p.a. in 1987-91.
However, this performance masked different sectoral developments. Agriculture output
recovered quickly from the severe 1992 drought, while industrial output continued to
decline in 1992-94. In 1995, however, manufacturing output rose by 18.5 percent as the
privatization of large industrial companies led to substantial increases in output.
Throughout the period the transport and commercial sector also expanded rapidly.
During the first six months of 1996, GDP is estimated to have increased by 7.4 percent
relative to the same period in 1995. The most significant developments have been the
rapid increase in agricultural output reflecting the highest grain harvest in twenty years
and the doubling of marketed cashew due to the elimination of quantitative restrictions
and the reduction in export tax, resulting in a 29 percent increase in producer prices.
16.   Overall, the main factors accounting for the acceleration of growth were the
restoration of peace, which allowed over one-third of the population to resettle in rural
areas, substantial donor assistance and policy reforms. Growth came mainly from small-
scale agriculture and the informal sector, but also to an increasing degree from an
emerging private sector that is gradually taking over the activities of the previously state-
controlled economy. The rapid emergence of these new activities indicates that the
growth recorded in 1991-95 would have been much more modest if reforms had not been
implemented continuously since the initiation of the ERP in 1987.
17.   Reform of the Foreign Exchange System. The focus of the reform was to
combine trade liberalization with the development of a market for foreign exchange.
Both objectives were achieved. In 1992, the administrative involvement of the Ministry
of Commerce in the management of import support funds was dismantled. This was
accompanied by a strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Bank of Mozambique
to monitor and manage the new system of foreign exchange allocation. Compared to the
ultimate goal of creating a market system for the allocation of foreign exchange, the new
system was somewhat of an hybrid as it mixed earnings from exporters with import
support funds, but it represented a significant step forward.



6
18.   What made the import liberalization sustainable was the drastic change in
exchange rate policy. Until 1991, the official exchange rate was substantially overvalued
as shown by the premium of the secondary market exchange rate (over 100 percent on
average in 1987-90). In April 1992, the country adopted a floating exchange rate policy
with the official exchange rate being set on the basis of the parallel market exchange rate.
The spread between the official exchange rate and the parallel market exchange rate was
kept within a 15-20 percent band during the first years of the program. It fell to less than
less than 10 percent on average in 1994-95 and to less than 2 percent by mid-1996.
19.   Pricing and Marketing. The objectives of the ERC were met, but after some
delays. As expected, private sector participation in the domestic marketing of agricultural
products increased sharply with the relaxation of the licensing requirements on retailers
and wholesaleis. Prices of agricultural commodities rose above the minimum prices,
which rendered obsolete the envisaged review of minimum prices and AGRICOM, the
state marketing board, whose share in the procurement of maize declined drastically. The
remaining price controls on industrial products were lifted in 1993 and the restrictions
affecting informal traders were relaxed. Export taxes were reduced in 1991, but export
restrictions affecting unprocessed agricultural crops (particularly raw cashew nuts)
remained in place until 1995. The reason for the slow progress in liberalizing exports of
agricultural products was the strong resistance of the processing industry.
20.   The main domestic effects of the policy measures were to increase agricultural
marketing, particularly for maize, and to reverse the worsening of the terms of trade
between agriculture and industry in those regions where small private traders were active.
Externally, the policy measures led to increased exports. The rate of growth of exports of
goods and services rose continuously from 2.7 percent in 1993 to 20.8 percent in 1995 (in
current US$). During the first half of 1996, merchandise exports increased by 42 percent
compared to the same period in 1995. In particular, raw cashew exports reached US$25
million compared with US$1 million the previous year, and processed cotton and cashew
increased by 23 percent and 33 percent, respectively.
21.   Financial Sector. The specific objectives of the ERC were met. The Bank of
Mozambique was separated into two institutions -- the Bank of Mozambique (central
bank) and the Commercial Bank of Mozambique (BCM); new regulations were enacted
to allow for the entry of new banks; and accounts were established for BCM. These
revealed large losses (equivalent to 12 percent of GDP) in BCM's balance sheet.
Immediate privatization was ruled out at the time because of BCM's extremely poor
financial situation and the fact that BCM represented virtually the entire banking system.
Instead, the Government opted for a restructuring strategy which included transferring
losses from BCM's balance sheet to internal collection units and write-offs, the cessation
of lending to non-performing borrowers, appointing external management advisers, and
privatizing and restructuring the largest non-performing borrowers. In March 1995, faced
with limited progress in transforming BCM into a dynamic commercial bank, the
Government decided to privatize BCM. BCM was privatized in July 1996, and the
process to privatize BPD, the second largest state-owned bank, is currently underway.



7
22.   While the reform of the financial sector is far from complete, recent trends
indicate that the initial objective of creating a dynamic and commercially-oriented
financial sector is being attained. Shareholdings have changed in some of the existing
banks to include South African interests; a new Portuguese has entered the market; a
credit cooperative bank has been established by Mozambican entrepreneurs; and a leasing
company started operations in 1996.
23.   Privatization and Enterprise Reform. After a slow initial start, the privatization
program accelerated quickly. The medium-term objective of the Credit of privatizing
some 25 enterprises was exceeded with some 32 large enterprises sold in 1992-96.
Including small and medium enterprises, over 700 enterprises, out of approximately
1,000, have been privatized. The private sector now commands well over two-thirds of
industrial output compared with less than a third in 1990, and industrial recovery is taking
place. A joint review with Government of the impact of privatization revealed a five-fold
increase in the output of the firms that were recently privatized under the responsibility of
UTRE (government agency which oversees the sale of large enterprises) (see Appendix
B). However, it also indicates that some of the privatized firms did not perform well and
closed down.
24.   Particular emphasis has been placed on those public sector companies that are the
largest debtors to the banking system. Of the 14 largest non-performing enterprises
identified in mid-1994 under the Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC), five have
been sold, three are at the point of sale, and three are in the process of being privatized.
With respect to the remaining three, LAM (the national airline) is in the process of being
privatized and bid documents are been prepared for private/public joint ventures, with a
majority private sector share for CFM (the national railways). As to AGRICOM, the
state marketing board, its debt has been written-off and its role in agricultural marketing
drastically reduced. The Government plans to complete the privatization program by the
end of 1997, including the sale of another 30 large enterprises.
25.   Compared to privatization, the restructuring of public utilities has proceeded
slower than expected. It was initially envisaged in 1991 that large state companies,
primarily transport and utilities, would be restructured as public enterprises rather than
immediately privatized. While the legal modification did take place, the effective
transformation of these enterprises into commercially-oriented public enterprises has
been slower than envisaged. However, initiatives are now underway to remove barriers
to entry and increase private sector participation, particularly in the transport (railways,
aviation, coastal shipping, port handling), petroleum distribution and water sectors.
26.   Macroeconomic Framework. When the ERC was prepared, it was explicitly
recognized that macroeconomic disequilibrium would remain substantial over the
medium-term.  This was viewed as reflecting the economy's severe supply side
weaknesses and the country's dependence on emergency assistance over the short-term,
both of which could only be gradually addressed over time. However, it was envisaged
that macroeconomic stabilization could be achieved through better control of monetary



8
expansion. This objective proved to be elusive with broad money growing at an average
rate of 63 percent p.a. in 1992-95, which exceeded the programmed levels in every year
during the ERC program.
27.   A key factor was the difficulties encountered in reforming the two state banks,
BCM (Banco Comercial de Mocambique) and BPD (Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento), which together accounted for 90 percent of banking activities. While
progress was achieved in improving the transparency of the accounts of the banks, the
establishment of bank accounts for the two state banks in 1992-93 revealed substantial
financial imbalances within the state banks. Although monetary growth declined from 79
percent in 1993 to 58 percent in 1994 and 55 percent in 1995, monetary targets proved
difficult to meet due to a marked financial deterioration of the two state banks and
excessive overdrafts with the central bank. Because of the difficulties encountered in
restructuring BCM and ensuring that its lending operations remain with agreed credit
ceilings, the Government decided to accelerate the privatization of BCM and BPD. BCM
was privatized in mid-1996 and the privatization process of BPD --initiated in mid-1996--
is expected to be concluded by early 1997. Because of the improved credit control,
money supply growth declined sharply and the inflation rate fell to 16 percent in 1996.
28.   Budget. Throughout the program the attainment of the fiscal macroeconomic
goals proved elusive. The fiscal adjustment relied mainly on expenditure reduction, but
the main unexpected development was the fall in revenues. Expenditures were reduced
from 47.4 percent of GDP in 1992 to 39.1 percent of GDP in 1995, but budgetary
revenues declined from 21.1 percent of GDP to 18.3 percent of GDP during the same
period. Because of substantial donor assistance, the budget deficit after grants remained
small (5.2 percent of GDP on average, excluding the impact of the peace agreement in
1994) and was not a key factor behind the rapid monetary expansion of the 1992-95
period.
29.   Substantial budgetary reallocation took place during the period. Sustained peace
allowed the Government to cut the defense budget and to use the "peace dividend" to
increase social expenditures. Expenditures on health and education increased in real
terms by 15 percent and 21 percent, respectively. Nevertheless, total budgetary current
expenditures fell from 21.4 percent of GDP in 1993 to 16.6 percent in 1995. These
reductions adversely affected the implementation of the investment budget because of the
shortages of local contributions needed for externally-financed projects.
30.   A key factor was that the envisaged development of a more systematic approach
to the management of public expenditures proceeded more unevenly than expected. As
agreed under the ERC, a three-year investment plan was prepared, but it did not fully play
its intended role because throughout the implementation of the Peace Agreement in
1992-94, many distinct expenditure initiatives emerged.  Some were the direct
consequence of the Peace Agreement while others reflected short-term humanitarian
objectives or the country's medium-term development objectives. As a consequence,
there were substantive problems of unresolved issues of expenditure prioritization. A



9
much more tightly defined set of objectives as well as a substantial reduction of the
fragmentation of external assistance would have greatly improved the scope for
macroeconomic stabilization. To integrate more fully donor-financed projects in the
budget cycle, the Government launched in 1996 a fiscal management review with the
assistance of the Bank and bilateral donors.
31.   The achievement of peace has enabled Government to carry out a substantial
reallocation of budgetary expenditures towards the social sectors. As agreed under the
ERC, expenditures for health, agriculture and education were increased in real terms in
1992 and 1993. A significant step was reached in 1995 when the Government decided to
reduce military expenditures by 37 percent and to increase social expenditures by 44
percent, both in real terms. The goal was to offset the decline in budgetary expenditures
in real terms that took place in 1994 because of the higher than expected inflation.
Overall, there was a noticeable improvement in health and education services. The
volume of health services rose by 12 percent between 1993 and 1995, principally in rural
areas, while primary school enrollment rates among 6-10 year olds in rural areas rose
from 24 percent in 1991 to 45 percent in 1994. At the national level, the previous decline
was stopped with the primary enrollment rate rising from 54 percent in 1993 to 57
percent in 1995 (see Table 5 in annex).
32.   Poverty. The social objective of the ERC to improve the living conditions of the
poor was achieved. While poverty indicators still indicate widespread poverty, the living
conditions of the poor have improved substantially, mainly as a result of peace and the
ensuing agricultural growth. Because poverty was so pervasive as a result of the war, the
restoration of economic growth and the attainment of peace were the main vehicles for
reducing poverty. Peace allowed for the resettlement of over one-third of Mozambique's
population in rural areas, which generated a dramatic turn-around in food insecurity with
the number of families in need of food assistance declining from over one million in 1994
to an estimated 90,000 in 1996. A key factor was the unexpected large role that small
traders, mainly women, came to play in the marketing of maize throughout Mozambique.
33.   The evolution of poverty in urban areas is more difficult to assess due to the lack
of indicators. On one hand, the delay in reducing inflation had probably a high social
cost because it increased the burden of adjustment for the urban poor and the households
that were net purchasers of food. On the other hand, the Government established a
coordinating poverty unit for policy formulation and a targeted income safety net for poor
households in urban areas. In recent years, over 80,000 households were covered under
the scheme. Other factors contributing to increased income in urban areas were the
increased economic activity recorded in the informal sector (including transport and
trade) and the resettlement of households in rural areas which reduced the downward
pressure on wages in urban areas. The privatization of state enterprises was accompanied
by a reduction in the excess labor that these companies had previously kept, but it
allowed those enterprises to increase wages subsequently. One indicator of the overall
effect of these different trends is the minimum wage rate, which declined in real terms in
1990-94, but rose by 15 percent in 1995.



10
C.   BANK'S PERFORMANCE
34.   The Bank's performance in the identification, appraisal and negotiation of the
credit was satisfactory. Supervision of the reform program was monitored in the context
of annual PFPs, Consultative Group Meetings, and IDA investment projects. A useful
vehicle for supervision was the Joint Bank/Donor Evaluation Mission (1993). It helped
create a consensus on the achievements and shortcomings of the foreign exchange
market. The implementation of the privatization program was carried out with technical
assistance provided under the IDA Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Credit (Cr. No
20810), while the accounts for BCM were established with technical assistance financed
by the IDA Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Credit (Cr. No. 20820). Supervision of
the banking reform was carried out mainly through the Resident Mission, and the on-
going Second Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. No. 26280) focused on the financial sector.
35.  Implementation  of the  program   was  substantially  enhanced  by  the
Government/donors sectoral coordination groups that were established. The role of
cofinanciers was particularly important for petroleum, health and transport sectors.
Regular coordination helped set up common procurement procedures for petroleum and
avoid financing crisis. It also ensured continuous monitoring of sectoral developments.
In recent years, other sectoral coordination groups were created, particularly as concerns
macroeconomic policies. These institutional developments provided the backdrop for the
development of key sector investment programs in the health and transport sectors.
D.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
36.   Borrower's performance in the identification stage was satisfactory as it took
ownership of the program. The Government carried out an analysis of the cost of the
various system of foreign exchange allocation, which proved instrumental in creating a
consensus on the need to implement a market-based system for the allocation of foreign
exchange. The Government also played an active role in formulating a program for the
privatization of state enterprises that could be implemented taking into account the
complex legal institutional issues that needed to be addressed. The design of the banking
reform was developed in coordination with Government, who played an important role in
defining a phased-approach for the reform of the sector. Similarly, the program for the
redeployment of public expenditures was defined by the sectoral ministries in
coordination with the Ministry of Finance.
37.   The main issue that delayed the release of the second tranche of the Credit by
about four months was the Financial Management Action Plan (FMAP). The purpose of
the FMAP was to address shortcomings in the management of import support funds,
which had been revealed by the audits of the Second and Third Rehabilitation Credits.
However, the implementation of the FMAP turned out to be more complicated than
expected. After some delays, a comprehensive review of all missing documentation was
carried out by an independent consulting firm and remedies were agreed with IDA.



11
Measures were taken to improve accounting and technical assistance (financed under
bilateral assistance from ODA) was provided.
38.   Most measures agreed under the Credit were implemented and all covenants were
complied with. However, disbursement of the Credit was slower than anticipated. This
was partly due to the procedures required for accessing funds which, from the point of
view of commercial banks, were quite complicated and costly. A second factor was the
need to open Letters of Credit. This process took often from three to six months. As
funds were drawn against the special accounts, funds were tied up for a long period of
time. This issue arose especially at the end of the Credit when funds were committed, but
remained undisbursed. To allow full disbursement of the Credit, the ERC was extended
for another year.
E. ASSESSMENT AND CONCLUSION
39. Program Sustainability. The sustainability of the reform program is highly
likely. The Government has continued to deepen the reform program to address the
shortcomings of the reform program, particularly as concerns macroeconomic
stabilization. In this regard, the key decisions taken by Government to privatize BPD
(Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento), to reform customs and trade taxes, and to improve
budget management are indicative of the continuing government commitment to reform.
40. Overall Assessment. Because the ERC was part of a broad program of financial
support from the donor community, the specific impact of the ERC cannot be isolated.
O)ne can only assess the global results to which the ERC contributed. In each of the
policy areas targeted by the ERC, the outcomes have generally been satisfactory.
Significant economic liberalization has taken place and a basic framework for private
sector development has been established. Growth has been strong, though uneven and
the living conditions for most households, particularly in terms of food security, have
improved substantially. It is to the credit of the Government that this difficult adjustment
program was carried out in extraordinarily adverse circumstances stemming from the
powerful adverse impact of the insecurity situation in 1992-93, the severe 1992 drought
and the political uncertainty that surrounded the transition to a democratically-elected
Government.
41.   Because of the country's dependence on foreign aid, the implementation of the
program implied strong donor involvement to simplify and harmonize procurement
procedures and maintain a substantial inflow of import support funds. In this context,
progress turned out to be slower than expected. A fundamental difficulty was that from
the point of view of firms, the access to import support funds remained complicated and
costly. In retrospect, the disbursement of funds would have proceeded much faster if
there had not been a 20 percent limit on the use of ERC funds for financing petroleum or
food imports (each) for which the existing procurement regulations result in substantial
savings. In Mozambique's case, there was a shortage of funds for financing petroleum
imports and the country ended up buying petroleum products on an emergency basis at a



12
higher cost than otherwise. In 1995, however, the ERC legal agreement was modified to
remove the restrictions on petroleum imports.
42.   While there were some implementation delays and policy slippages, the key
objective of the Credit to enhance private-sector based economic growth was achieved.
The program helped establish the institutional changes required for moving from
administrative management to market-led economic development. It contributed to the
development of a strong privatization program, and it provided the institutional basis for
a commercial banking sector as well as the expansion of agricultural marketing by private
traders. Secondly, it helped to protect key activities in health and education and establish
a safety net for the urban poor. Lastly, it contributed to reducing macroeconomic
instability by providing resources to close the financing gap.
43.   These are extremely encouraging results, but this assessment needs to be qualified
in several important respects. First, the rapid economic growth recorded the last few
years reflects a recovery from extremely low levels as well as the resettlement of over
five million people in rural areas. Transforming this short-term recovery into long-term
growth requires the implementation of complex institutional changes, including the
development of the state capacity to manage economic changes.  Second, the
improvement in the situation of the poor was made possible by the restoration of peace,
the resumption of productive activities in rural areas and the reorientation of government
expenditures towards health and education. Third, the macroeconomic framework is still
fragile, while weak institutional and human capacity constrains the pace of structural
reform needed for ensuring an appropriate balance between macroeconomic stabilization,
economic development and poverty reduction. With peace, emergency assistance is
being phased out, but Mozambique remains highly dependent on external aid, both to
finance imports and budgetary expenditures.  In addition, with an external debt
amounting to 3.7 times GDP and 13 times exports, Mozambique faces an unsustainable
debt burden over the medium-term, which can only be reduced through a combination of
debt relief measures and further adjustment. Taken all together, the implication is that a
difficult adjustment agenda still lies ahead.
44.   Lessons Learned. The main conclusions and lessons learned are:
*  Borrower ownership of the adiustment program is essential. Because of the
Government's strong commitment to the reforms supported by the ERC, the
implementation of the program proceeded despite the political uncertainty that
prevailed during the implementation of the Peace Agreement in 1992-94.
While slippages did occur, they were corrected by Government and the
program was put back on track.
*  A phased reform program allows for continued ownership of the reform
program by Government when the initial institutional capacity is limited. As
adjustment moves from outright liberalization to reforms requiring increased
institutional capacity, the pace of reform is constrained by Mozambique's



13
weak human resource base. A phased strategy allows the reform program to
be implemented by the Government with its own resources.
*  Uneven progress in implementing the enterprise andfinancial sector reforms
creates substantial macroeconomic instability.  Because macroeconomic
stabilization cannot be achieved unless leakages from financial institutions
and enterprises are brought under control, simultaneous reform of the financial
and enterprise sector is required. Delays in carrying out such reforms result in
macroeconomic instability.
*  Slow progress in reducing macroeconomic imbalances increases the social
costs of adjustment. The difficulties involved in meeting fiscal targets limited
the scope for reorienting budgetary expenditures towards health and education
and financing the safety net for the urban poor. In addition, the slow reduction
of financial imbalances led to high inflation, which increases the cost of
adjustment for the poor, and particularly for those households that are net
purchasers of food.
*  The reforms must be part of a broad program offiscal reform to increase the
efficiency of international aid. Because Mozambique is so dependent on
international aid, coordination and prioritization of donor aid is essential in
order to better align budgetary expenditures with the overall priorities. A
much more tightly defined set of objectives and responsibilities for each
expenditure initiative, and with all initiatives brought under the government
budget, would have substantially alleviated the problem of expenditure
incompatibility given the budgetary resource envelope.  However, the
disbursement rules for import support funds must be as simple as possible if
the objective is to transfer funds quickly to finance the internal or external
deficit.



14
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Objectives
B.    Program Sustainability
C.    Bank Performance
D.    Borrower Performance
E.    Assessment of Outcome
Table 2:     Related Bank Operations
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1992-96
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Credit
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:     Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
Table 9:     Bank Resources - Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial     Negligible       NIA
Macroeconomic Policies                             V
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                 v
Institutional Development            V
Physical Objectives                                                            V
Poverty Reduction
Gender Concerns                                                                V
Other Social Objectives               V
Environmental Objectives                                                       V/
Public Sector Management                           V
Private Sector Development            V
B. Program Sustainability       Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
C. Bank Performance       Highly Satisfactory]     Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance                                 V
Appraisal                                              V
Supervision                                            V/
D. Borrower Performance  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                           V/
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                    V
E. Assessment of    Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  Highly
Outcome                                                                 Unsatisfactory
[f~~                             V 



16
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Credit Title                     Purpose                  Fiscal      Status
(As it relates to the ERC)       Year
Precedig Operatins        ;:;;;            ;;                              ;I
Rehabilitation Program   To rehabilitate and maintain investments and  1985  Completed
economic services expected to generate an
immediate production response.
Second Rehabilitation    To support policy and institutional reforms; to    1988  Completed
Credit                provide foreign exchange to finance essential
imports; and to assist the Government develop
an agenda for longer-term policy changes.
Third Rehabilitation  To improve the allocation of foreign exchange    1989  Completed
Credit                system, budgetary policy, and price policy, and
to review and reform the trade tariff structure.
(Pararllel Ofperations   :::f       :             ;;l
Economic/Financial    To strengthen the key economic and financial    1990  Under
Management Technical  management functions of the Ministry of          implementation
Assistance            Finance and Bank of Mozambique.
Small and Medium Scale To provide medium and long-term financing  1990  Under
Enterprise Credit                                                      implementation
Industrial Enterprise  To restructure and rehabilitate the industrial  1990  Under
Restructuring Credit    sector through the privatization of state-owned  implementation
enterprises and financing for plant and
equipment rehabilitation.
Following Operations;                     
Financial Sector      To develop and strengthen the financial sector    1994  Under
Capacity Building    institutions, including training of central and   implementation
commercial banks staff and legal professionals
at BOM and MOF.
Second Economic       To strengthen key elements of fiscal and  1994  Under
Recovery (SERC)       monetary policy while supporting an interlinked  implementation
program of enterprise and financial sector
reform.
Third Economic        To support measures to improve            1997  Under appraisal
Recovery (TERC)       macroeconomic management through financial
and fiscal refonn, and to stimulate the supply
response.                                                      l



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification                                            March 1991
Preparation                         April 1991             July 1991
Appraisal                          October 1991          November 1991
Negotiations                       January 1992            April 1992
Letter of Development Policy       January 1992            April 1992
Board Presentation                  June 1992              June 1992
Signing                             June 1992              June 1992
Effectiveness                      October 1992           August 1992
First Tranche Release              October 1992           August 1992
Second Tranche Release              May 1993             September 1993
Closing Date                        June 1995              June 1996
Table 4: Disbursements
(in US$ million equivalent)
FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97
Appraisal Estimate              90.0      80.0      10.0
Appraisal Estimate Cumulative  90.0      170.0      180.0
Actual                          80.0      65.6      21.0      20.8       0.9
Actual Cumulative               80.0     145.6      166.6     187.4     188.3



18
Table 5: Key Indicators, Actuals And Projected, 1992-95
(% unless otherwise indicated)
Actual               Bank Proiections3
1992  1993  1994   1995        1992  1993  1994
GDP Growth                         -0.8   19.3   5.0    1.5        3.0   5.0    5.5
Total Investment/GDP               48.8   54.4   52.2   50.8       41.9  39.9   38.6
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP         -3.0   1.9   -3.5   13.5    -11.5  -13.2  -13.3
Export Growth (GNFS) (US$)         -0.2   2.7    9.2    20.8       10.3  13.8   11.7
Import Growth (GNFS) (US$)         -3.1   11.7   6.7   -16.5       -1.3   7.3    5.7
Current Account Balance (US$ Mn4)   738    825    894    684       750   822    855
Current account deficit (% of GDP)
Before grants                57.5   56.2   61.2   44.9       60.3  60.1   57.3
After grants                 18.6  21.9   19.4   22.6        17.6  20.1   19.6
Total Revenues/GDP5                21.1   20.0   17.6   18.3       25.9  26.0   25.0
Total Expenditures/GDP             47.4   42.2  47.3   39.1        57.2  56.6   53.0
Fiscal deficit before grants/GDP   26.3   22.2   29.7   20.9       31.3  30.6   28.0
Fiscal deficit after grants/GDP     5.5   5.1    8.3    5.0        4.8   4.3    4.0
ConsumerPriceIndexGrowthRate    45.1   42.3   63.1   54.4          25.0  14.0   100
Note:  Due to inadequacies in the national accounts, the ratios to GDP are distorted. In
addition, investment figures include a significant proportion of recurrent expenditures.
The national accounts are being revised.
Projections are from the ERC President's Report (P-5775-MOZ) dated May 18, 1992.
4 Excluding foreign grants.
Excluding capital grants.
6 Including net lending.



19
Table 5: Social Indicators, 1993-95 (continued)
Health Indicators                    1993         1994          1995
Indicators of Access
Number of visits per people       0.36         0.37          0.40
Facility-based deliveries per people   26%     29%           27%
Ante-natal coverage               57%          63%          64%
Coverage 0-l1 months              75%          83%          92%
DPT third dose coverage           45%          55%           57%
Measles vaccination               60%          65%           69%
Health Services
Hospital days                     1,992,862    2,045,570     2.,093,377
Facility-based deliveries         145,250      166,802       164,117
Vaccinations                      3,624,491    4,665,690     4,617,684
Number of visits                  4,698,906    4,797,791     5,390,985
Units of health services 1/       29,068,316    31,026,951    32,578,111
Source:  "Situa,do, Problemas e Perpectivas, o Servi,o Nacional de Saude ", Ministry
of Health, April 1996
Note.    1/ Units of health services are weighted average of the above categories
Education Indicators (%)          1991          1994           1995
Enrollment ratio in rural areas
6-10 years                 23.8          45.4           n.a
11-12 years                43.3          63.7           n.a.
13-15 years                42.2          51.8           n.a.
Gross enrollment ratios (primary)
National level             62.9           54.2          57
Source:  "Rural Poverty Profile ", Poverty Alleviation Unit, Ministry of Planning and
Finance, April 1996



20
Table 6: Studies Included in the Credit
Studies                  Purpose                    Status
Review the methodology    Improve price incentives for Study was done, but was
for setting floor prices of    and cotton and cashew  obsolete as decision was
cashew and cotton on the                            taken to move to market
basis of border prices                              determined prices
Prepare action plan to   Identify policy options for   Plan was prepared. In 1996,
restructure BCM           dealing with bank's losses   BCM was privatized.
Formulate plan for        Improve performance of    Explicit plan was not
transforming public utilities  public enterprises by  prepared, but decree to
into commercially-oriented  restructuring along     "commercialize" state
public utilities          commercial lines those    enterprises was issued and
enterprises that would   the strategy shifted towards
remain in the state sector    (i) promoting increased
competition; (ii) tightening
the budget constraint; and
(iii) increasing private
sector participation in the
public enterprises.
Carry out inventory of    Improve coordination of    Inventory of projects was
donor and NGOs supported  donor-supported activities   carried out with an estimate
health activities         and improve budgeting     of recurrent costs.
Review income transfer    Assist in developing      Review of income transfer
schemes                   efficient transfer        scheme was done.
mechanisms                Conclusion was that the
scheme reached poor
households.
Prepare progress report on   Increase transparency in  Condition of Second
land distribution and     land allocation           Tranche. Report was done,
transfer                                            but its intended purpose was
not achieved.



21
Table 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement                  Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section
Schedule 3
1        The Borrower has operated the revised consolidated   Condition met.
market-based system for the allocation of foreign
exchange.
2(a)      The Borrower has completed the separation of the  BOM was separated
accounts of Banco de Mocambique (BOM) and Banco  into BOM and BCM.
Comercial de Mo,ambique (BCM); and
2(b)      finalized a balance sheet for BOM for 1991.       Condition met.
3(a)      The Borrower has adopted regulations satisfactory to  Completed.
the Association for licensing new banks; and
3(b)      implemented procedures satisfactory to the Association Procedures for
for the assessment and approval of applications for    licensing of banks
banking licenses submitted to Banco de Mo,ambique   adopted.
by new banking institutions.
4        Satisfactory progress has been achieved in the   Condition met.
implementation of the Borrower's privatization
program in accordance with the terms of reference and
targets set forth in the Program (of action).
5(a)      The Borrower has prepared a three-year investment   Completed.
plan (FY92-94) and a financial plan (FY92-94)
satisfactory to the Association; and
5(b)      increased its budgetary allocations from domestic  Condition met.
sources in real terms from FY92 to FY93 by at least
1% for education, 1.5% for agriculture, and 4.5% for
health.
6        The Borrower has completed and submitted to the  Report was submitted
Association a progress report on land distribution and  to IDA.
transfer of land rights to smallholders and private
enterprises through September 30, 1992.
7        The Borrower has completed and submitted to the  Completed with some
Association a progress report on its financial   delays.
management action plan, in accordance with terms and
conditions agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.



22
Table 8: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs7
Stage of Project Cycle               Staff Weeks           Us$'009        l
Preparation to Appraisal                           52                   155
Appraisal                                          21                   66
Negotiations through Board Approval                 8                   24
Supervision                                        42                  131
Completion                                         9                    35
TOTAL                                             132                  411
Source: MIS Report (COSR2) - Staff Time Use and Schedule, in Staff Weeks and Dollars.
8 Includes travel and labor costs.



23
Table 9: Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of the Project        Month/Year            Number of    Days in Field
Cycle                                        persons
Identification                 March 1991                 1               10
Preappraisal                    July 1991                 5               15
Appraisal                    November 1991                5               15
Supervision                    March 1993                2                15
August 1993               1                15
October 1993               1               5
November 1995               4                5
Completion                     March 1996                2                15
Note:  Supervision of the credit in 1994-95 was carried out through the PFPs mission and the supervision
missions of the Second Economic Recovery Credit.






Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
AIDE-MEMOIRE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
(Credit 2384-MOZ)
1.    A World Bank Mission visited Mozambique from March 25 to April 10, 1996 to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC). The ERC is scheduled to close on June 30, 1996. The Mission consisted of
Messrs. Rene Bonnel (World Bank) and included the participation of Mr. David Wilton
(World Bank). This aide-memoire summarizes the main conclusions of the mission.
Overall Conclusion
2.     The good news is that a new pattern of economic development is taking place
based on rapid agricultural growth and new exports (most of them not reflected in official
trade). What is causing these changes are increased domestic and external trade resulting
from the resettlement of households in rural areas, on-going liberalization of internal
trade and balance of payments and economic recovery in Southern Africa. The issue is
that government policy is still aimed at rebuilding the economy as it was before
independence and preserving the existing industrial structure. The result is a set of
inconsistent policies that are slowing down economic recovery.
3.     This is particularly the case for the financial sector reform. For the last four
years the Government has been trying to maintain the two state banks alive because they
were the main source of credit for the economy. The problem is that as loans are not
being repaid9, the state banks are suffering from a liquidity crisis, which is alleviated
through increased overdraft by the Central Bank. The state banks have generally
exceeded their net domestic asset credit ceilings, have not observed their loan
concentration limits and have extremely weak accounting systems. As a result, they have
not been restrained by credit controls or prudential controls. Only the private banks have
been. The consequence is a serious macroeconomic risk as shown by the experience of
countries which failed to successfully address financial sector issues.'
4.     The Govermment has yet to accept the fact that the two state banks have probably
a negative net worth and cannot be sold to a private buyer without taking some hard
The most striking evidence is the default rate on the IDA financed Small and Medium Enterprise
Restructuring Project (Credit No. 2082) which was 78% in early 1996.
10 The experience of Mozambique is not unusual. In Mexico, for example, banks were privatized in
1992, but three banks still accounted for 2/3 of total credit. During the 1991-94 period, the ratio of
past due loans minus provisions divided by the banks equity increased from 41% to 74%, and it
reached 105% in 1995. These developments were fueled by rapid increase in loans (24% p.a. in
1991-94) as well as overdue loans (41% p.a.). These events were facilitated by an adverse system of
incentives facing bank managers.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
decisions. An alternative policy would be to acknowledge that the two state banks cannot
be kept alive. This would mean breaking the state banks into two parts: a "good" bank,
which could be privatized quickly and a "bad" bank, which would be left to die (but
would be in charge of collecting overdue loans). Doing so would open the door for
additional lending by the existing private banks and allow for new banks to enter the
financial sector.
5.    The second area of concern is the slow restructuring of public utilities.
Privatization/restructuring of the large state firms involved in transport and services has
progressed quite slowly. The consequence is that economic growth is slower and
dependency on external aid larger than otherwise. An example is Navique (the state
shipping company) whose cost of transport from the North to the South of Mozambique
exceeds the cost of transport from the Gulf. If this cost would be brought down (by
allowing for more competition), the surplus maize from the North of the country would
be sold in the South of the country. This would effectively eliminate the need for
Mozambique to rely on food aid at the same time that the country is faced with the largest
crop in twenty years. A second example is the railroad sector which could be earning
over US$100 million more if it were run efficiently through privatization. As the
required actions are not taking place (mainly because of government's concerns over
unemployment), the country's external borrowing needs continue to remain substantial.
Unless these policies are modified, Mozambique's aid dependency will not decline over
the medium-term, a consequence highlighted by the projected evolution of external debt
(see below).
Supply Response
6.    Two developments stand out: (i) agricultural output is increasing sharply; (with a
projected 1996 grain harvest of 1.3 million tons, the highest in twenty years, output
would rise by 30% according to FAO); (ii) agricultural marketing is booming throughout
the country (it rose by 18 percent in 1995) with the result that the country could become a
maize exporter in 1996; and (iii) this is a spontaneous supply response which does not
involve the formal banking sector.
7.    The main factors are: (i) the resettlement of households in rural areas; (ii)
sustained peace; (iii) improvement in road transport; and (iv) the increase in the price of
maize at the producer level resulting from the substantial involvement of small traders in
marketing and the increase at the wholesale level for donor food aid (from 30% to 70% of
CIF price). What has allowed marketing to rise so sharply is the Government's decision
not to enforce existing regulations (which limits entry into marketing) and taxes on
informal traders. These changes have allowed new, small traders, mainly women from
Southern Mozambique to buy maize as far as the center of the country and resale it
throughout the country. These traders have arranged for the subcontracting of trucks,
which would otherwise have returned empty from Beira to Maputo (the main transport of
commodities is from Maputo to Beira).



Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
8.    This is an interesting development because it goes against four widespread
fallacies, namely that:
(i)   only Indian traders would benefit from market liberalization. In fact, the recent
survey of agricultural marketing indicates that the formal traders are not much
involved in the purchase of maize: they are getting involved only with donor
funds or to resale imported maize;
(ii)   without agricultural credit. agriculture would not increase. So far, lack of credit
has not been a binding constraint. The increase in marketing has come from
informal traders, who have bypassed the banks, each one by buying small
quantities of maize; but collectively, the amounts are large;
(iii)  trade would hurt farmers.  The argument (widespread among provincial
governors) is that farmers faced with high maize prices are selling so much maize
that they are going to be short of maize at the end of the harvesting season. In
fact, the opposite is happening: because prices are much higher, maize producers
do not have to sell as much maize as otherwise, and they have more maize left
over for their own consumption;
(iv)   minimum prices help farmers. In fact, the minimum price for maize has not been
adjusted sufficiently to compensate for the increase in the price of key consumer
goods (such as cooking oil). As state firms have bought maize at the minimum
price and not at the higher market price, the economic situation of farmers did not
improve. It is only when informal trade was feasible that the terms of trade facing
farmers improved.
9.    The implications of the new developments are striking. Economic integration is
taking place (as shown by the fall in the price differential for maize between producing
and urban areas); the real income of farmers is rising (before 1994 the terms of trade
between agriculture and industry were worsening), and cross-border trade is increasing.
10.   These changes are leaving the country without a clear strategy for agricultural
development. Given the strong supply response in agriculture, the key issue is how to
ensure that agricultural output can be sold domestically or exported. This implies that
particular attention must be given to the role of prices and incentives facing farmers as
well as trade policies, taxes on agricultural commodities, and the role of the Instituto de
Cereais. Four policy issues stand out:
(i)   internal marketing: the main issue is the system of incentives (including control of
marketing margins and taxes) and regulation. This system is preventing formal
traders from getting actively involved in the marketing of domestically-produced
crops. As mentioned, it is mainly because it is not applied to small traders that
marketing increased so rapidly;



Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
(ii)   food security: in view of the rapid increase in output, Mozambique does not need
food aid. However, there is a need to develop market-based incentives for
traders to store agricultural commodities." An option would be to transform the
Instituto de Cereais into a private firm involved in selling storage facilities to
private traders. This could provide the basis of a formal system of storage
certification, which could be used as collateral for bank lending (a recent example
of such a system in Africa is Uganda). The advantage would be to establish a
channel for bank lending to agriculture;
(iii) transport: improvement in domestic security has led to increased domestic trade.
While increased competition has reduced cost, transport costs still account for a
large share of the retail price of food products. Infrastructure rehabilitation would
help, but there are a number of policy distortions (port tariffs, etc.) to be
addressed;
(iv)   exports of agricultural products: border trade is reportedly taking place, which
suggests that a potential exists for exporting new products. But, this will require
institutional development and addressing the issue of indirect taxes on exports.
11.   Similar issues are emerging in industry.  As the on-going privatization is
reaching a critical size in terms of output, a joint Bank/Government survey is being
carried out. Preliminary data suggests that some firms are changing their product lines
and technology in response to the new opportunities created by trade. As in other
countries, one would expect some restructured firms to reduce employment. The risk is
that the necessary restructuring of firms (which may include closing down old product
lines and starting new activities) may not be allowed to take place because of concerns
over unemployment.
12.   Changes in the foreign exchange market have been substantial. Until recently,
the rationale for balance of payments support was that it was needed to provide firms
with foreign exchange to import inputs. Recent data show that this is no longer the case.
Donor funds are being used to finance large commodity-type imports (such as petroleum)
for which procurement rules can be shown to result in savings. For other imports, firms
are using other sources of foreign exchange in the informal market. Although there is no
"hard" data available, it would seem that the informal market has become quite large, and
maybe larger than the official market.
13.   The good news is that the informal and the official market for foreign exchange
have become integrated as shown by the small spread (3-4 percent) between the informal
Currently, traders do not store maize despite the apparent opportunities for profit (the dollar price of
white maize fluctuated by as much as 50% within a six-month period in Maputo in 1994-95). The
main reason was the distortions created by food aid, which made the future price of maize too
uncertain for traders to engage in storage activities.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
and the formal market. What has caused the recent decline in the spread is the further
liberalization of current account transactions: below US$50,000 no documentation is
needed for buying foreign exchange, and there is no limit on the number of transactions.
A positive result is that variability in the availability of donor import support funds has
no longer a significant impact on the official exchange rate. For example, delays in the
release of the second tranche of the IDA Second Economic Recovery Credit had a minor
impact only on the exchange rate in mid-1 995.
14.   The issue is that the expansion of the foreign exchange market is taking place
outside the formal banking sector. A key reason is that the banking sector is still
dominated by state banks, which most firms view as inefficient. Hence, a parallel system
for opening up Letters of Credits with South African banks has been developed. This
system is working, but it could be replaced if a modem banking sector was to develop in
Mozambique.
Poverty impact
15.   The driving force behind poverty reduction is agricultural growth. It is reducing
food insecurity and food aid, which should have a positive impact on agricultural income
and poverty. Overall, the number of people in need of food assistance would decline
from over 1 million last year to 90,000 only in 1996 according to the World Food
Program.
16.   These developments are in line with recent government thinking. As mentioned
by the Poverty Document being prepared by the Ministry of Planning and Finance,
poverty is not due to food insecurity, but mainly to the economic isolation of farmers.
This implies: (i) improving marketing by removing remaining constraints on traders
(particularly on women); (ii) rehabilitating the transport network with a view to increase
market integration (Zambesia for example is still difficult in terms of access); and (iii)
increasing investment in health and education, particularly in rural areas.
17.   Contrary to widespread assumption, Mozambique's structural adjustment did not
have an adverse impact on the social sectors. The provision of basic services for health
and education has improved substantially, thereby reversing the trend of the 1980s. The
enrollment ratio for 6-10 year-old increased from 32% in 1991 to 45% by 1995 on
average in rural areas, but in some provinces the increase was over 100%. A similar
trend was recorded for health in terms of physical indicators (number of vaccinations,
etc.) but, in addition, data from the health ministry shows that access to health services by
the poor improved throughout the country.



Appendix B
Page 1 of 2
ASSESSMENT OF PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
Introduction
1.    Legislation for privatization was first promulgated in 1989 with subsequent
administrative decrees and principal structures established up to 1992.  Large and
"strategic" enterprises covering various sectors fall under the mandate of the Technical
Unit for Enterprise Restructuring (UTRE). Each line ministry has a National (or
Provincial) Valuation and Sale Commission. In the case of Ministry of Industry,
Commerce and Tourism and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries there are two
specialized offices which help in the preparation of company tenders for privatization.
2.    The initial five years of the privatization program saw the completion of less than
one-third of the total number of privatization. But, with the end of the civil war
privatization accelerated. Notably, of 32 sales of large enterprises, 26 sales occurred in
1994-96. Including small enterprises, over 700 enterprises, out of approximately 1,000
have been privatized. "Privatization" included sales of majority ownership (73%), joint
ventures (16%) and leases or management contracts (11%).
3.    About one third of direct foreign investment authorized by the Centre for
Investment Promotion is attributable to the privatization programme.  Sales for
enterprises sold through UTRE (to 31-5-96) are currently $72m with pledged new
investments for these firms of $153m. The vast majority of enterprises (92%) were sold
to nationals, representing 60% of the total privatization sales. This latter figure is
somewhat misleading as less than 20% of the more than $50m pledged by nationals has
actually been paid.
4.    In response to growing concern and much speculation about the privatization
process, it was decided by the Government of Mozambique and the World Bank to
undertake a study evaluating the impact of transferring large numbers of state owned
enterprises to the private sector. The results of the survey (conducted in early 1996) were
published in the report "Evaluating the Impact and Effectiveness of the Enterprise
Restructuring Program" (August, 1996).
Main Findings
5.    High levels of underemployment were found to exist in many of the state-owned
enterprises. Workers in these companies come to "work" so as not to lose their service
benefits. They receive salaries (albeit irregularly with long delays) for doing virtually
nothing, representing a huge drain on state resources. Privatization, therefore, should not
be seen as the cause of increased unemployment, it simply brings out into the open what
has for many years been concealed unemployment, supported by what effectively has
been a very expensive social welfare programme.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 2
6.    One of the most severely felt repercussions of structural adjustment has been the
constant erosion of real wages. The current minimum wage (238,000 Mt) is not nearly
sufficient to meet the needs of an average family (felt to be more likely in the vicinity of
600-700,000 Mt per month).  As real wages have decreased and formal sector
employment have become relatively less attractive, the informal sector has flourished and
grown faster than any sector since the advent of PRE. A recent study of the informal
sector found that the average monthly incomes from commercial or productive activities
were well in excess of average earned wages. Interviews with workers in this survey
showed an overwhelming interest in taking up agriculture as an alternative to wage
employment. This is probably explained by considerably improved agricultural terms of
trade.  The interest in pursuing these alternatives to wage labour  has important
implications for severance pay and redeployment after retrenchment.
7.    The main results of the study are as follows:
*     Sales  from  privatized  companies  increased  sharply  immediately  after
privatization, almost doubling within a year.  To keep this increase into
perspective, the data suggests that there were sharp drops in sales during the years
leading up to privatization, the probable result of the uncertainty surrounding
privatization, often accompanied by asset stripping by outgoing management and
high levels of employee theft. It must also be borne in mind that increased
production cannot be attributable to privatization alone as the economy has
undergone rapid growth after the 1992 peace agreement. However, with few
exceptions, it is unlikely that state-owned enterprises contributed much to this
economic growth.
*     Employment levels, not surprisingly, suffered a marked decline (about 25%)
during the year of privatization. A slight increase in employment was registered
in the immediate years following privatization.
*     Significantly, the study shows a very large jump in worker productivity which
increased by more than three fold within 3 years of privatization. Wage levels
also increased, being about 60% higher than those prevailing during privatization,
3 years later.
*     Privatization was found to have a positive impact on the State budget.
*     More than 90%  of the firms sold were purchased by nationals or national
companies, representing about 60% of the total value of enterprises sold.
*     New owners, for the most part, thought that the privatization program was
positive. The main problem areas related to the length of time to complete the
process, labor liabilities and government's continued participation.



I



IBRD 28696
CstGo    ANO CLRU    wA    j~~~~~~~~34-                 6                       38                        40.,-'PMAA
ANGO.A                                                               T A N Z A N  I A                       .               -
do P-oio
NAMIBIA>
| t  6t   {   .  ,                         MeculcQi    *           /                                    124~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
SOJTH L_1-/
AFR CA
ZA) [ t i (i  PE'MBIA
Z A M  B I A v .curpM=  
.1 4'                             ,;tLILONGWE    BSu           \    \\,Mt-LdL                    4'.
>   w  T   8\               )1 Cinuc                   ~~~~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-cbur  M nguO O CCI
f.,d. MogoeN. \./  \      )      'JeNo. l                                     Nid.                            1
ty'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
20'E-g 1                                                              -.      P       ROADS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                        PVD=uog ROADS, UNE  CNSTUTO
EepoHgo,,e,                                                          EAT  ROADScurol Olg
16'                                                     I..g.~~~~~~~6,o o,bo,  -- RILOD
IN~~~~~~~d    NENTINLAROT
')  /     ~~Nhomolobuy_                        v   s 
XHARARE                                          /}                   QkJeNMANE                                                      18P-
~( 5  t)Muenzo  MOZAMBIQUE
/-CHtoO
Z I M   B A B W   E            i        <         2BIAPAVED ROADS                                                                             -
20'~~~~    v--- PAVED ROADS, UNDER CONSTRUCTION
(  {Esckngubero  \                             -    ~~~~~~~EARTH ROADS
<    >          \    0 ~~~~~~~~~N-v MQmb-nr                    P AILROADS
To RutenJo / 9 + InhcswrO * ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
1V  ~tg                                                                                          OTHER AIRPORTS                              2'
22'   .Chzcuolmuch    <     (         |                                i    ~~~~~~~~~~~PORTS OF REGIONAL IMPORTANCE
\ \ < \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCAL PORTS
\   ~~~~8\     >       \                              X ~~~~~~~~~LIGHTHOUSES
\   Q                           /  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4              RIVERS
t   \    >*1d  |              //(3 ~~~~~~~~    ~     ~     ~     ~~INRAMBANE  (3 PROVINCE CAPITALSi           24'-
,2' S O   U T H      mrJsngi X       A.8ragn 
i  ~~~~\ r;   i   /                              ,fF ~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITALS
C~~ ~                                  \Mc-      This map was prepared               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
I ASt-   xr:     by t~he Map Unit of
jMogudec   g  XXAI~-XAI        theWondrldBonk     colors           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
w  y                     ~~~~~~~~denompinotions and any
Mco_                                 o rn this mop   do   not
L   iMAPUTO                ~~~~~imply, on te part of              lo          0           0
26'   fiSWAZILAND    *    X                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~status of any territory,  KILOMZETERS   '  
f                                          or any endorsement
MBABANE                SOUT                            o FI6br acdcepta^nce of such
30'                     5-                  34                    36                    38-                    40                 4lARC  19,









IMAGING
Report No.:          16472
Type:      ICR



