Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5775-MOZ Type: (PR)
BONNEL, RE/ X34257 / J11051/ AF6CC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$180 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR AN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
MAY 18, 1992
Tlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only iD the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENC'x EQUIVALENTS
(April 1, 1991)
USD 1.00 = MZM 2,213 (Secondary Market Exchange Rate)
Special Exchange Rate for Tied Aid: 8 percent discount
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
AGRICOM    State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
BM           Banco de Mogambique
BCM          Banco Comercial de Mogambique
BPD          Banco Popuar de Desenvolvimento
BSTM         Banco Standard Totta de Mopambique
CG           Consultative Group
CIRE         Iner-Miisterial Commission for Enterprise Restructring
CNP          National Commission of Planning
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ERP          Economic Rehabilitation Program
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
ESRP         Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
GCPI         Department for the Coordination of Import Programs
LDP          Letter of Development Policy
LIB          Limited Interational Bidding
MEDIMOC   State Inport/Export Agency for Medical Supplies
MOH          Ministry of Health
NGO          Non-Government Organization
NSA          Novo Sistema de Abastecimento (New Supply System)
OECD         Organization for Economic and Cooperation and Development
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PHC          Primary iHealth Care
SNAAD        System for the Non-Administrative Allocation of Foreign Exchange
SGS          Soci&te Generale de Surveillance
UTRE         Enterprise Restructring Unit
MErR[C EOUIVALE
1 meter (m)                       =     3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)             =     10.76 square feet
I kilometer (km)                 =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km)        =     0.386 square miles
FISCEAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMC RECOVERY CREDrr
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROGRAM  SUMMARY ...........................................................i
PART I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ........ 1
A. Recent Economic Performance ...........................................................1
B. Medium-Term M roeconomic and Structral Policies ................................. 8
C. Bank Country Assistance Strategy .............................         ................... 13
Objectives and Strategy ................................................          13
Lending Program and Economic and Sector Work ............................... 14
Aid coordinatlon ................................................ 19
Relations with the IMF ..................          .............................. 19
D. Summary Assessment ................................................ 19
PART I: PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT ..............                            ............... 21
A. Enhancement of Private Sector-Based Growth ......................................... 21
Foreign Exchange Allocation ................................................       21
Improvement in Price and Export Incentives .......................... ............ 24
Reform of the Financial Sector ................................................    25
Enterprise Restructung/Privatization .............................................. 28
B. Public Expenditure Management and Poverty Reduction ............................. 30
PART m: FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDlT ..........................................  33
A. Credit Amount, Tranching, Coordination and Cofinancing ............           ............. 33
B. Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing ................................................ 34
C. Mnagement and Monitoring of the Program  ........................................... 35
D. Benefits and Risks ................................................ 36
PART IV: RECO lEID'ATION ................................................ 38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Mozambique in
November 1991. The mission consisted of Messrs. Rend Bonnel (Mission Leader and
Senior Economist), Simon Bell (Financial Economist), KJell Roland (consultant), John Graves
(Lead Financial Advisor), and Ms. Neeta Sirur (Projects Officer).  Mr. PrafM   Patel is the
managing Division  Chief and Mr. Stephen Dennin  is the Deparuet    Director for the
opeation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienbt only in the perfmance of
ter official duties. Its content may not otherwi be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorizatio



NNE  I         Letter of Development Policy .        ................................   39
ANNEII    Policy Mrix .................................. 51
ANNEXm         Balance of Payments .................................                     57
Key Macroeconomic Indicators           ................................. 58
Exteroa Financing Requirements and Sources  ................................. 59
Soi Indicators ...................................i. 60
ANNEX IV    Statement of Bank Group Operations (IDA and IFC) ............................ 62



i
ECONOM BWQVERY
PROGRAM SUMMARY
Republic of Mozambique
Benecfiay:          Republic of Mozambique
Amount:            IDA Credit   SDR 132 million (USD 180 million)
Switzerland SwF 10 million (USD 6 million)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, 40 years maturity
Desaigfti          In  earlier  adjustment operations  IDA  had  been  supporting
Mozambique's Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP).
The proposed credit will provide support for the ESRP. The objectives
of the credit are to enhance private sector-based growth, redeploy
budgetary expenditures towards key social sectors and small holder
agriculture and provide support for drought-relief. The credit has four
main components. First, it will improve foreign exchange allocation
and export incentives by developing a consolidated market for foreign
exchange, liberalizing prices of manufactured products and reforming
agricultural marketing. Second, it will strengthen the role of the
Centa bank, improve access to credit by the private sector and
develop commercial bankdng services. Third, the credit wiU accelerate
the restuctring and privadzation of the state enterprise sector and
establish a transparent system for privatization. Fourth, the credit wiU
reorient budgetary expenditures to protect a set of high-priority
activities in primary health, primary and secondary education,
smallholders in agriculture, and provide support for the implementaion
of limited targeted direct income transfers to poor households. The
proceeds of the credit would be used by Mozambique to support the
enlargement of the secondary market and finance technical assistance to
strengthen the Government's capacity to extend the privatization
process to large enterprises and reform the banldng sector. It is also
expected that up to USD 10 mllion would be used for restoring the
productive potential of agriculture destroyed by the drought.
BDenefits:          The program would enhance prospects for economic growth and
exports while alleviatng poverty. Production and exports would
increase because of improved access to foreign exchange and credit,
enhanced financial incentives resulting from price and agriculturd trade
liberalization, and the restructuring of the state enterprise sector.
Poverty alleviation would be strengthened as a result of increased
efficiency of resource utilization in the social sectors and the
redeployment of budgetary resources towards the social sectors.



ii
Riak:               There are risks associated with the program. First, the introduction of
a multi-party system and the process of negotiations with RENAMO
will increase the need for consultation and consensus which could make
the implementation of the reforms more difficult. However, this risk
should be balanced against the Government's strong commitment to the
program through its acceleration of reforms concerning exchange rate,
foreign and domesdc trade and privatization. Second, the technical and
managerial capability to Implement the adjustment program is limited.
To reduce this risk, technical assistance, both by IlDA and other
bilateral donors will be provided.  Third, the uncertain security
situation could reduce the beneficial hnpact of the measures,
particularly in the mral areas. This risk should, however, be assessed
against the concerted efforts and progress achieved towards reaching a
peace agreement.
Disbursement:       USD 175 million would be disbursed in two tranches.  The first
tranche of USD 82.5 million would be available upon effectiveness.
The second tranche of USD 82.5 million would be available about nine
months later upon satisfactory fulfillment of specified conditions.
Disbursement would follow standard Bank procedures for imports.
Retroactive financing would be allowable up to a maximum of 20
percent of the loan, for imports carried out during ;he four months
immediately prior to credit effectiveness. Disbursements for technical
assistance and consultants' services (estimated at USD 5 million) would
be made on the basis of 100 percent of totl expenditures.
There is no separate Staff Appraisd Report



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNT ASSOCITION
REPORT AND RECOlMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TE EXECtUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC) to the Republic of Mozambique for SDR 132 million (UJSD 180 million
equivalents) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
2.    Ihe proposed adjustment program would build on the reforms already undertaken by
the Government of Mozambique under three IDA Rehabilitation Credits, and the Structura
Adjustment Facility (SAP) and Enhanced Adjustmnt Facility (ESAF) arrangements provided
by the IM. The Government's Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP) has been
descnrbed in the 1991-1993 Policy Framework Paper which was discussed by the Committee of
the Whole on September 12, 1991. Support for the Government's adjustment program is being
provided through a second-year ESAF approved by the IMF on September 20, 1991. IThe
following bilateral donors have conformed that they would provide cofinancing: Switzerland
(USD 6 million); and Germay (USD 10 million).
3.    From the inception of the ESRP in 1987, the Mozambican Government has shown
strong commitment to the ESRP framework and has registered a number of Important
accomplishments over the past five years. These include: major real devaluation of the
exchange rate (78 percent); substantial increase of agricultura commodity prices to nea-border
prices; elimination of monetary financing of the budget; improvements in the composition of
budgetary investment; and rapid progress on eliminaing state enterprise subsidies and
priatization of about 120 sn'all and medium enterprises.
4.    Part I of this memoandum gives an overview of Mozambique's recent economic
performance; the country's medium-term macroeconomic and structural policies for the period
of the proposed credit; and the Bank's assistance strategy in Mozmbique. The proposed
Economic Recovery Creddk is outlined in Part 11. Part m describes the specific features of the
credit, while Part IV discusses its benefits and risks.
PART I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISFANCE SRATEY
A. RecentEmontcfrfrmn
S.    DaWkround. In 1975 Mozambique was a relatively prosperous country, its economy
built on a strong agricultural base and on provision of transport and labor services to
neighboring countries, especially South Africa. However, during the 197545 period it
suffered a major eonomic decline with the result that today Mozambique's per capita income
(around USD 80) is one of the lowest of the world and its social indicators (iteracy ratt,



2
infant mortality rates, levels of acute malnutrition and life expectancy) awe among the worst In
Sub-Saharan Africa. Several fators account for this deterioration, including: O) a colonial
legacy of very low Investment in human resources; (ii) inappropriate (socialist) economic
policies; and (iii) weak civil service capacity, exacetbated by the emphasis on centraized
planning. Perhaps most debilitating has been the ongoing civil war which, since the early
19808, has devastated much of Mozambique's counride. The economic cost of the civil war
has been far-reaching in all sectors: over a third of health facilities and about one-alf of all
primary schools have been destroyed, and nealy 40 percent of the population has been
displaced or otherwise directly affected by the insecurity.    -
6.    In response to the serious economic and financial difficulties, the Government launched
a comprehensive adjustment program in 1987-the Economic Rehabilitation Program. The
global objectives of the ERP were to: (i) reverse the decline in production and restore a
minimum level of consumption and income for all the population, particularly in rural areas;
(ii) reduce substantially the domestic imbalances and strengthen the extemal accounts; and
(iii) establish the conditions for a return to htgher levels of growth once the security situation
improves. In 1989/90, taking into account the serious and widespread poverty prevailing in
the country, a Poverty Reduction Framework Papei was prepared joindy by the Government
and the Bank for presentation at the 1990 Consultative Group. Following general agreement
by Government and donors regarding the centrality of the need to address poverty issues, the
objective of poverty reduction was incorporated into the ERP and the program was
subsequently renamed the Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP). Ihe
ERP/ESRP has been supported by three IDA Rehabilitation Credits, three arrangements under
the Structural Facility (SAF) and two arrangements under the Enhanced Structral Facility
(ESAF) from the IMP, and assistace from multilaterd and bilateral donors.
7.    The most striking feature of the ERP has been the increase in production, which is
rvesing tie 1982-85 decline (see Graph below). From 1987 to 1989, real GDP growth has
averaged 5.4 percent per annum. Much of this growth has come from liht industral activity
which rose because of improved avadiability of foreign exchange for raw material Imports.
Despite the adverse security situation, recovery was also apparent in the agricultural sector,
where value added increased on average by over 5 percent per annum. A key factor was the
adjustment of prices and the increased availability of incentive goods in rural areas. In
1990-91, growth slowed down to 1.1 percent per annum on average, mainly as a consequence
of bad weather and renewed attacks by RENAMO, which particularly disrupted the supply of
energy.



3
Evolution of Real GDP
Index 1980  100
96
101. . _       ..   .
n- I- -1- X---
8.    Considerable isaaduhetwas carried out with domestic revenues increasing from
12.9 pretof GDP in 1986 to 23.9 percent of GDP in 1991. Budgetary deficits before
gr-ants, averaging 24 percent of GDP were financed increasingly through grants with the result
thfat the budgetary deficit after grants fell from 15.3 percent of GDP in 1986 to 6.1 percent in
1991 (see Table 1). Ihe most noticeable results have been a significant improvement in the
comxposition and level of thie investment program as well as in social policy. Significant
Inttuinal changes were implemented to transform the government budget into a key policy
insrmn lor prioritzng state expenditures. In 1990, previously off-budget expenditue
amontin to about 10 percent of GDP were included in the budget and an acutng  system
for monitoring budgetary expenditures was put in place with technical asstace.  lhese
imrovements were accompanied by the formulation of a roiling three-year investment and
financial plan, and substantial revisions were brought to the investment program. Ihe overall
size of the budgetary investment was cut from a projected 29.3 percent of GDP (at the
beginning of 1990) to 24.2 percent in 1990 and the composition of the investment program was
substantially improved. Large white elephanlt projects in irrigation were cut, and the
investment program was redesigned to better reflect poverty reduction priorities. In particular,
spport to smallholder production in agriculture and social expenditures were increased
8Uy.l~~7
X  In  onstat 1980 pic,  per ca budgearry ex p    itu  omeducatien fell frem MS 409 in
1980 to Mof  128 in 1987,6antossto M2Z3 M 215 by 1990; pro   Budgetary epenits before
L the  decned fro diZi  132ain 1980ts toZm 53 in 1987,6andi  to MZM 61 by 1990.



4
TABLE 1: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICA"ORS, 1986-91 I1
Rea Growtb (% p.a.)
GDP Gabwtk Rate                2.3      5.3    S.5    S.4    1.3    0.9
Coosumpon per Capita          -3.3      0.4    0.9    3.2   -2.8   -3.7
Goss lnvest GDP 21             9.2    24.0   33.4   35.5   38.1   42.7
Domestic Savings/GDP           -1.1    -12.0  -16.S  -16.6  -11.7  -11.6
Budgdary Data (% of GDP)
Budgetuy Revenues              12.9    16.2   19.9   23A    22.3   23.9
Govenm     t Expeninus        30.9    37.5   45.2   49.0   51.8   51.2
Overal Defict before Gats      17.6    21.1   25.3   25.5   29.5   27.3
OverallDeficitafleruant        1S.3     11.8   11.4    9.0   12.6    6.1
Shareo of GDP (%)
Epos (G&NPS)GDP                3.5      12.1   15.1    1.SA    S.9   24.3
Export Growth Rat (G&NFS) 3/    -1.4    8.3    4.4    8.4   10.6   31.3
Current Amount DefitX&S)
Before Grnts               314      289    253    281    263    214
AfterGrants                207      159    108    138    114        78
Real EfeExch Rate (depr.=-)   22.2   -77.3  -18.3    0.8    1.2  -17.7
Inltion (averag, % p.11.)     38.7    163.3   50.1   42.1   49.2   35.0
V Due to inadequacies in national aucouts, estimates on investment and savins are distorted.
The inres in ratios to GDP reflects the effects of major exchange rate adjustmn on the
exteal components of Investment reat  to a less  ser increase hi domedo infation,
and therefre, GDP.
2/  nVestet expendtu  inude some re_uret expedtute  (about 1S percent of
invemen).
9.     Following indepeence, Mozambique's finciW  system was restructured with the
result that Banco de Momique (BM) operated both as the central bank and the largest
commercia bank, acuntn  for around 95 percent of financial system assets. Through its
ownerip of the two largest banks,2 the Go'erment has had direct Control of most c the
financial seofr, which was largely used to fiance the government budget and the operating
deficit of state enterprises until 1987. Consequently, the financial sector operated as an arm of
the govemment budget rather than as a proper banking system, with the result that it provided
only minimum banking services to enterprises. Starng in 1987, the Government initated a
refrm of the banking sector aimed at separating the commercial banking and central bank
functions of Banco de Mogambique (DM). In early 1992, BM was separated into Banco
Comercial de Mopambique (BCI) and Banco de Moambique (BM).
2   Th seond largest bank, Banco Popa do Dlesevolvlmito (BPD), is stat-owned and has been
mainly urvolved il agrdcultural lending. Ihe third bank, Banco Stndard Totla do MoAmbique, is
t  only privatly owned bak and is relauvely smail with lendimg confied to the pivate sector.



5
iO.   Mong= goice were aimed at reducing the degree of excess liquidity and improving
the efficiency of credit utilizadon. Monetary expansion was restrained by eliminating domestic
bank financing of the budgetary deficit from a level of about 12 percent of GDP in 1986, and
in 1991, the budget made repayments to the banking sector in an amount equivalent to
1.7 percent of GDP. Overall, the ratio of money to GDP fell from 63 percent in 1986 to
36.5 percent in 1991, and inflation declined from 163 percent in 1987 to 35 percent in 1991.
To increase the role of market forces in the allocation of credit, interest rates were raised with
a view of achieving positive interest rates in real terms. Ir April 1992, interest rates were
increased substantially with the result that rates are now positive in real terms and the
differentiation in lending rates among sectors has been eliminated.3
11.   As economic management shifted towards a market basis, major corrections were made
In administered prices and suppressed price pressures were released. Significant progress was
made in restoring financial incotlye at the producer level. The number of product groups in
the agriculture, industy and service sectors with price control was reduced from 46 in 1986 to
16 in 1991. The objective was to limit price controls to food products made available through
food aid and essential products sold through the ration system in urban areas (9), and energy
products traded through state monopolies (7). However, to ensure that prices reflect real
resource costs, the policy adjustments were focused on realigning prices to international levels.
In the agricultural sector, prices were either freed or set instead as minimum (floor) prices for
nine products with the result that the ratio of border to domestic prices fell by over 400 percent
from 1986 to 1989 for most products. By 1990, most agricultural prices (with the exception of
export crops) were at about 80 percent of border prices. Fixed prices for manufacured
products were replaced by a system of ex post review ("conditioned prices"), which gave
enterprises flexibility in increasing prices. Overall, the share of products subject to price
control fell to about 17 percent of total production in 1991, a substantial decline from the pro-
ESRP level of 69 percent (Table 2).
TABLE 2: PRODUCTS WTH FDIED PRICES
Share of production
(begl ning of period)  69%    39%      30%     24%      17%
12.   Despite this progress, there are still significant distortions and impediments in the
domestic trade regime. Although Government has decontrolled agriculural prices and
improved price incentives, the available evidence indicates that state agencies are procuing
agriculural commodities at below market prices. Such a pricing policy is facilitated by the
restrictions affecting the importation and marketng of incentive goods in rural areas.4 As the
purchase and trade of agricultural products by private traders is limited by registration
3   As a result, both th lowest (39 pect) nd th highes (44 percent) leding rates ar now
substanially above the inflation rate achieved in 1991 (35 percent). The second important change
was to reduce the number of lending rates from 54 in 1987 to 18 in 1991 and 6 in 1992.
4   Import and distrbtion of conomer goods financed by official aid are administatively managed by
Govemment and state enterprise



6
procedures,5 state enterprises face little competition when purchasing agricultural commodides.
This monopoly was strengthened by the allocation of imported consumer goods to state
enterprises for distribution in rural areas. These enterprises, being nearly the sole legil source
of incentive goods in rural areas, are able to buy agricultural products at low prices in
exchange of consumer goods. Realizing that the legal barn 3rs to marketing were resulting in
substantial taxation of agriculture, the Government has initiated an overhaul of pricing and
domestic marketing of agricultural commodities.
13.   Foreign e2change allocation    Until the introduction of the System  for the
Non-Administrative Allocation of Foreign Exchange (SNAAD) in October 1989, most of
Mozambique's foreign exchange was administratively allocated with the price of foreign
exchange having no allocative role. To establish a more efficient system of foreign exchange
allocation, the Government decided that, for those products selected for inclusion under the
SNAAD, enterprises would be accorded automatic access to foreign exchange and import
licenses. The range of products eligible for SNAAD financing was initially restricted to three
product groups, but was further enlarged in mid-1990 and 1991. The gradual increase in the
SNAAD was reflecteC both in the mimber of firms applying to the SNAAD and in the value of
imports.6 About 80 percent of the SNAAD funds were distributed to private firms.
14.   The initial expectation was that the SNAAD would become a significant market-based
system for allocating foreign exchange. For several reasons, however, this objective was not
achieved. First, the SNAAD was financed only by official aid as exporters' earnings were
srrendered to Banco de Mogambique.7 The consequence was that available funds for financig
the SNAAD were limited to donor aid provided as undad balance of payments support.
Typically, they were provided in a 'lumpy" fashion during the year, which resulted in periods
of excess demand, which were managed through a queuing process rather than through
exchange rate adjustment. As the official exchange rate was overvalued until mid-1991,
significant implicit import subsidies vere provided through the SNAAD. Once the initial
rest i'tions applying to the SNAAD were lifted, the demand rapidly exceeded available
resources, and the SNAAD ceased to function as a market.
15. The creation of the secondary market for foreign exchange in October 1990 was aimed
at establishing a market through which economic agents could obtain access to foreign
exchange without administratve restrictions. Initially limited to service earnings (tourism,
etc.) and the savings from the import entitlement sceme for exporters, the secondary market
was expanded in mid-1991 to include earnings from non-traditional exports. Nevertheless, it
remained small amounting to about USD 40-50 million in 1991, pardy becase of the
segmentation of foreign exchange windows. As a reflection of the demand and supply of
5   Traders have to reostr with the Ministry of Comnmrce before the begining of the agrculturl
marketing campaign so that each tader can be assigned to a specific area. While the init
objective of this measure was to estimate the credit to be provided by the baniing sector, the reslt
was to limit competition among tladers.
6   Import licenses rse from USD 16.6 million in 1990 to USD 67 million by end-1991.
7   These funds were in tum used to meet pre-d_termined payments such as debt sevice.



7
foreign exchange, the secondary market exchange rate has fluctuated between the official and
the parallel market exchange rate.
16.   Exchange rate adjust. The major conclusion that emerged from the experience
gained from the operation of the SNAAD was that a substantdal devaluation of the official
exchange rate was required. It Is a credit to the Government that exchange rae devaluation
accelerated in 1991 with the result that the official exchange rate is now at a level broadly
consistent with the establishment of a market-based allocation of foreign exchange. From end-
1990 to April 1, 1992, the premium of the parallel exchange rate over the official exchange
rate fell from 97 percent to about 14 percent (see Graph below). Similarly, the premium of the
secondary market exchange rate over the official exchange rate fell from 80 percent to
5 percent from end-1990 to March 1992.
2l6-
1.4 -
Ra 2 ~ ~ I 
t 18
17. In line with the objective of establishing a more open trade regime, a major buff
reform was completed in 1991 involving the eliminz ion of all specific import duties and the
simplification of the tariff schedule. Ihe number of tariff rates was reduced from 34 to only
six ad valorem rates, and the maimum tariff rate was lowered from 100 percent to 35 percent,
thus reducing excessive protection, incentives to smuggling and pressure for tariff exemption.
At the same time, a harmonized system of tariff nomenclature was introduced. To unify the
treatment of domestic and imported goods and eliminate some cases of negative protection, the
coverage of the urnover tax was extended in mid-1991 to consumer goods imports at a rate of
5 percent and the rate for domestic manufctiu    was reduced from 10 percent to the same
level.
I8.     uffent Account Deffi. With an external debt of USD 4.9 billion in 1991, and a debt
service ratio (before debt rescheduling) amounting to 146.5 percent of exports of goods and
sevices in 1991, Mozambique is one of the world's most indebted countries. The Government
has take importa  steps, including exchange rate devaluations to respond to this siation.
As a consequence of these policy changes, the rate of growth of exports of goods and non-
factor services accelerated to 10.6 percent in 1990 and 31.3 percent in 1991 in real terms with
the rest that the share of exports in GDP has doubled since 1987 (Table 1). Nevertheless,
extal Imbalances remained substantial.  ITis disequilibrium  was the consequence of



8
Mozanbique's low levels of production, which implied that large volumes of imports would
remain necessary, at least in the medium-term, to provide incentive goods for the agricultural
and industrial sectors as well as the capital goods required for the rehabilitation of key
economic and social infrastructure. This strategy was reflected in the widening of the current
account deficit before grants from 47.8 percent of GDP in 1987 to 61.2 percent in  9i.
Because of strong donor support for the ESRP (see below), the current account deficit after
grants fell from 26.8 percent of GDP in 1987 to 22.1 percent of GDP in 1991.
19.   A key component of the ESRP was the mobilization of extemal aid on more
concessional terms and under conditions more conducive to its efficient utilization. In this
respect, emphasis was placed not only on the relaxation of centralized administrative controls,
but also on the provision of untied external aid within the context of the Special Program of
Assistance for Sub-Saharan Low-Income Debt-Distressed Countries. Substantial amounts of
exteirna assistance have been made available by bilateral donors, both as cofinancing for IDA
credits and as parallel operations. In aggregate, gross inflows of loans and grants increased
from USD 497 million in 1986 to USD 700 million in 1990 and the share of grants increased
from 43 percent to 64 percent over the same period.
20.   Following two traditional debt rescheduling with the Paris Club in 1984 and 1987,
Mozambique concluded a new rescheduling on Toronto terms in June 1990 covering the period
1990-92. A number of donors have already converted their outstanding loans into grants or
have canceled their loans, thus bringing closer the prospect for balance of payments viability.
In addition, about 64 percent of Mozambique's commercial debt was retired at a discount in
December 1991, utilizing fiuds from the IDA Special Debt Reduction Facility and donor
finacial support. The overall effect was to reduce the debt service ratio from 146 percent
(beore debt relief) to 42 percent in 1991.
21.   In summary, since the initiation of the ERP in 1987, the Government has made steady
progress in improving the incentives system, strengthening government's capacity to prioritize
investment and alleviate poverty, and addressing the most important causes of domestic and
external imbalances (external indebtedness, low production, inadequate tax revenue, and high
rate of credit expansion). Compared to the situaion of four years ago, progress is significant.
The combination of improvement in policy, rehabilitation investments, and strong donor
suport has led to the restoration of economic growth despite continued domestic insecurity.
B. Medium-Term Macroeconomic and Structural Polcies
22.   Given the progress achieved over the last five years, the stage is now set for the
Government to place greater emphasis on addressing stmrtural impediments to deal not only
with critical short-term problems (particularly as concerns inflation and the difficult balance of
payments situation), but also to establish sustained economic growth and alleviate poverty.
The Government's medium-term macroeconomic framework and structura policies for the next
three years, as outlined in the Policy Framework Paper (1991-93), were discussed and
supported by donors at a CG Meeting in December 1991. Ihe key features of this program
are: (a) reduction of the fiscal deficit after grants coupled with prudent monetary policy;
(b) establishment of a relatively large market for foreign exchange; (c) improvement in export
and productin mcentives; (d) privatization and restructuing of the state enterprise sector,
(e) poverty alleviation and redeployment of budgetary expenditures towards key social sectors



9
and support to smallholders in agriculture; and (f) strengthening of Government's institutional
capacity. The main aspects of the program are summarized below.
23.   Crdiplicy is focused on reducing excess liquidity and improving credit allocation to
sustain economic growth. Currently, the range of commercial bank deposit facilities offered in
Mozambique is very limited; the majority of the deposit base is in the form of demand deposits
(95 percent), and banks are reluctant to accept time deposits in the current context of excess
liquidity. The objective of reducing excess liquidity is reflected in the 1992-93 credit program,
which is set on the basis of increases in broad money significantly lower than those projected
for nominal GDP. However, to sustain economic growth the non-government sector will
benefit from the entire amount of domestic credit expansion compatible with the monetary
targets.
24.   The second objective of the Government's credit policy is to improve the allocation of
credit. Although agriculture continues to receive most bank credit, this proportion has
declined since 1987 as credit is increasingly being allocated to commercial activities. This
changing pattern is, in part, the result of the lending interest structure which remains
administratively managed. With no discretion to set rates, banks have moved away from lower
yielding agricultural lending (where rates are lower and risk is higher) into higher return and
less risky commercial activities. To improve banking services and lending, structural reforms
have been initiated to increase domestic competition among banks, develop the procedures and
regulations for new commercial banks to operate in Mozambique, and reform the structure of
interest rates (see paragraphs 72-77).
25.   Fiscal policy is aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit after grants and prioritizing
government expenditures. The overall deficit after grants will be reduced from 6.1 percent of
GDP in 1991 to about 4 percent by 1993. These targets are to be achieved by restoring
revenues to about 26 percent of GDP by 1992 and mobilizing counterpart funds. As local
currency resources available to the budget have been limited by the under-collection of
counterpart funds generated by external commodity aid, particularly food aid, increased efforts
will be made to enhance the collection of counterpart funds through the harmonization of
valuation, reporting, and administrative procedure and mobilizing additional counterpart funds.
Agreement with donors is also being sought on the use of these funds so as to provide the
Government with greater flexibility on expenditure decisions. The reform and streamlining of
the customs tariff introduced in October 1991 is to be accompanied by a rationalization of
customs operating procedures, while the turnover tax and ad valorem excise taxes are being
modified to harmonize the tax treatment of domestic and imported goods and facilitate
collection.
26.   The Government intends to continue making significant improvements to the devastated
economic and social infrastructure.  This includes making adequate provisions for the
rehabilitation of rural roads and storage infrastructure-which are crucial for agricultural
recovery and exports.  The Government recognizes the need to redeploy government
expenditures to increase the human capital of the poor and increase the effective participation
of the poor-who constitute over half of Mozambique's population-to the recovery process.
It therefore intends to make significant improvements in the quality of, and access to basic
social services-primary health care and primary and secondary education-and to strengthen
agricultural research and extension services to support smallholder agriculture. The allocation
of reurrent budgetary resources to priority sectors, in particular, health, education and



10
agrliculture, wMI therefore be increased so as to raise investment productivity and accelerate
progress in reducing poverty. Government, with assistance from bilateral donors, is also
actively developing a program for the demobilization of military personnel once a peace accord
is reached, and intends to reallocate savings on military expendiures to programs aimed at
poverty reduction. Technical assistance in this area is being provided by bilateral donors.
27.   Foreign Exchange Allocation. Following the significant reduction in the overvauation
of the official exchange rate (see paragraph 16), the Government intends to create a relatively
large market for foreign exchange by drastically reducing the number of 'foreign exchange
windows' and simplifying the administrative procedures and requirements applying to Import
support finds. In 1991, there were about five official windows under which foreign exchange
could be made avalable. These included: the foreign exchange fund of Banco de Moganbique
('Fundo Cambial'); the import entitlement scheme for exporters ("Novo Sistema de Gestao
Cambial"); the secondary market for foreign exchange; the SNAAD; and other import support
funds managed by the Ministry of Commerce. As the degree of administrative intervention,
the cash cover required at the time of opening a letter of credit, and the procedures required by
donors varied greatly among windows, the structure of import costs was greatly different from
that of exchange rates.$ Overall, taking into account these various factors, it was estimated
ta the effective cost of tied import support funds was about 8 percent higher than untied aid
and exporters' earnings.
28.   Taking into account these differences, the Government has initiated a program of
strucural reforms aimed at unifying the foreign exchange windows applying to untied aid and
exports within the secondary market. To develop that market, steps are being taken to
facilitate the participation of commercial banks in the foreign exchange market. While the
secondary market exchange rate would be determined on the basis of the demand and supply of
foreign exchange in that market, the official exchange rate-applying to tied aid-would be set
slightly lower (about 8 percent) to offset the higher finalnci cost of tied aid to firms. Because
Mozambique's tied aid is large relative to export earnings, the unification of exchange rates
requires the effective support of donors in untying eemral aid both in terms of the countries
from which goods can be procured and in terms of the use of funds.
29.   Ente=rise Restu,cindg. 'MThe Government recognizes that a priority in the coming
phase of the economic reform is to deepen and accelerate the reform of state enterprises. At
the time of independence in 1975, Mozambique's industi  sector was relatively diverse in
compaison to other African counries, with most production in the private sector. Following
independence, two significant events occurred that dramatically changed the ownehip
structure and adversely affected the performance of the sector. First, the exodus of more than
90 percent of the Portuguese settler population, which constuted the majority of the skilled
labor, forced the Government to take control of most industrial enterprises in order to maintain
8   Xbe elapsed ime beween to initiation of te import process and the receipt of the mercandise
ramged from 432 days in the case of one donor to 167 days for LIB imports to 54 days for imports
throuh th secondary market, and to 24 days for own-fund import



11
production. These enterprises became known as intervened enterprises.9 Second, the shift to a
centralized economy, was associated with the creation of a relatively large state sector,
consisting of 575 nationally registered enterprises in 1989, of which about half were publicly
owned and controlled.10 Because enterprise reform is a key condition for injecting dynamism
in the economy, the Government has decided to accelerate the privatization/restructuring of
state enterprises. Some 120 firms, mostly small- and medium-scale enterprises, have been
privatized until 1991 and some management contracts and joint ventures have been completed.
Ihe Government now Intends to move ahead with the privatization or restructuring of the
largest state or intervened enterprises.
30.   To facilitate the privatization process, the Government is taking steps to improve the
investment climate. The Government recognizes that the pool of domestic capital and skills is
limited, and is therefore keen to attract foreign investment.  Support to strengthen the
investment climate is being provided through IFC's FIAS, which recendy carried out a
diagnostic mission at the request of the Government.
31.   Finally, the Government is taking actions to address serious capacity constraints on
economic management and development administration stemming from an especially acute
shortage of skilled manpower. To alleviate this constraint, the Government is emphasizing
capacity building through education and training, and improvements in public pay. Following
the completion of a study in early 1992, the Government has identified about 3,000 key
positions within the Government which are deemed essential for the effective implementation
of the ESRP. Recommendations for increasing wages were adopted by Government in March
1992. Given the long lead time involved for development of human resources, Government
intends to devote particular attention to utilizing existing capacity more efficiently by focusing
the role of ministries on key strategic issues, simplifying internal government review/clearance
procedures and delegating decision-making to lower levels of authority.
32.   Macroeconomic Pro.= and External Finanemg R m ens Mozambique is well
placed for experiencing increased economic growth to about 5-6 percent during the second-half
of the 1990s. Assuming the Government continues with its planned reforms, a major source of
growth would be the agricultural sector which is projected to grow at around 5-6 percent per
annum. in the mid-1990s, as millions of currently displaced persons are gradually reintegrated
into the rural economy following improvement in the security situation. A major boost to
industrial growth would come from an enlarged role for the private sector coupled with the
9   'Tttervened enterprsos are entepres that wee abandoned by their prous owners, and which
were controlled by Govemment in order to maintain production. Intevention was mandated by a
1977 law of intervention. Formal nationaliation was limited to petroleum refining and shing.
10  Iho 575 nonally registed enwteprises conised of:
•   State owned enterprises:   114
•   Intrvened entotprises:     140
*   Private or mixed enteprises  321



12
privatization of most state enterprises,"1 improvement In Mozambique's bilateral relations with
South Africa, and strong foreign Investors' interest in the on-going privatization of the
Mozambican economy.
TABLE 3: SUMMARY OF KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Perent in real terms p.a.
GDP Growth                           3.0        5.0        5.5        5.5
Consumption per capita              -1.9        2.4        1.5        1.4
Expodts of GNFS                     10.3       13.8       11.7       10.5
Percent of GDP
Investment/GDP 1J                   41.9       39.9       38.6       37.5
Domestic Savings/GDP               -11.5      -13.2      -13.3      -12.1
Centrd Govenment Deficit/GDP
Before Grants                31.3       30.6       28.0       20.6
After Grants                  4.8        4.3        4.0        4.0
Imports GNFS/GDP                    81.7       83.4       83.9       83.1
Export GNFS/GDP                     28.9       29.7       31.5       32.8
Curent Account Deficit/GDP
Before Grants                60.3       60.1       57.3       53.6
After Grants                 17.6       20.1       19.6       18.2
1/ Invetmet icludes signficat amounts of rurrent expenditures.
33.   The sus_nability of the Mozambican reform  agenda is critically dependent on
adequate external financing, including debt cancellation. Although Mozambique has a good
export potential-particularly in terms of agro-industrial products, it will take time for these to
increase sufficiently for the trade balance to decrease.12 At the same time, the economy needs
a minimum of imports to meet its growth objective. Without such imports, per capita
consumption would fail below its already low level with severe consequences on poverty.
34.   The targeted increase in GDP growth from 3 percent in 1992 to 5.0 percent in 1994
would necessitate that imports grow at roughly the same rate over the mediumterm.  his
implies merchandise import requirements rising from USD 0.9 billion in 1991 to
USD 1,140 million in 1994. Towards meeting these requirements, exports of goods and
Contas signed with foreign firms reached US$135 million in 1990 compared to US$58 million in
1989 and US$17 million in 1987.
1   As exports amount to 18 perct of imports, exports would have to grow at least 5.5 timefaster
than imports for the trade deficit to fill in the short-tem  In the short-term, this would imply a
gwth rate of about 40-50 perce: for exports. Over the medium-term, imports could grow slower
tban GDP following the reintegrtion of the displacd and 'direculy affected population (about one-
dtird of total population) in rail areas, which would lead to rapid agriculrl gwth and reduced
food imports.



13
services would rise from USD 365 million In 1991 to USD 535 million in 1994, mainly
because of increased receipts from non-traditional exports and transport services. Taking into
account scheduled debt service, reduction of arrears, and reserve build-up, total external
financing requirements are projected to remain at about USD 1.2 billion per year. Based on
the pledges made by donors at the last Consultative Group Meeting for Mozambique held In
December 1991, it is assumed that disbursements from grants and loans would amount to
USD 737 million in 1992 and rise to USD 779 mfllion in 1994. Taking into account IMF
ESAF resources provided under the current agreement, there would be financing gaps (before
debt rescheduling) of USD 395 million per year in 1992-94. However, assuming tha
Mozambique's external debt would be rescheduled on Trinidad terms after 1992, the financing
gaps would be covered.
35.   While favorable debt rescheduling on Trinidad terms represents a potential source for
fimancing the gaps, a long-term solution to Mozambique's external debt problem will require
actions cn a number of fronts. As about 42 percent of Mozambique's debt are due to OECD
bilaterals and 30 percet to Eastern Eutopean counies, the Government has initiated a debt
restructuring strategy aimed at reducing the externa debt. Debt cancellation agreements have
been reached with several of Mozambique's OECD creditors. As concerns the debt owed to
the former Soviet Union, agreement had been reached that it would be reduced trough a debt-
equity swap. Tne Government has requested IDA assistance in developing such a strategy, as
well as with other Eastern European creditors.
C. Bank Countrr Assistance Strategy
$)bjecHlves and &taWe
36.   The objectives of the Bank's assistance strategy for Mozambique are to establish an
economic environment conducive to economic growth while reducing poverty, and support the
rehabilitation of key economic and social infrastructure. The overall approach is to strengthen
key institutions, policies and functions in a way that will be conducive to increased
productivity of public resources, enhanced private sector growth and reduced poverty.
37.   The principal elements of the Bank's stegy are to support efforts to:
ePrioritize public expenditures, in particular towards the social sectors, agriculture and
infastructure, while mantning macroeconomic stability through credit restaint and
repayment of government debt to the banking sector;
e Reduce poverty and food insecurity, in particular by increasing agricultural output,
expanding employment and income-generating  pportmities, and    povwing
delivery of basic social services;
o  Enhance private sector-based growth through deregulation, prvatzation and
restructuring of state enterprises, re-establishment of basic banking services, and
rehabilitation of the country's basic inriastructre;
o  Improve project implementation and alleviate Government's implemeon
cosrint;



14
Improve external aid mobilization, coordination and utilization.
Lending roam and Economic and Sector Work
38.   Bank Gro, C)perations. Since Mozambique joined the Bank in 1984, 15 projects
involving IDA Credits of about USD 580 million have been approved. About 36 percent of
Bank assistance has been provided through three adjustment operations in support of the
Government's ERP/ESRP (Table 4). The main focus of Bank investment projects has been on
rehabilitation of essential economic and socia infrastructure, principally in urban areas due to
the insecurity in the countryside. Overall, IDA disbursements rose from ITSD 48 mifllion in
1988 to USD 77 million in 1990, reflecting the increase in disbursements under project lending
to USD 26.6 million in 1990. In response to an increase in investor interest in Mozambique,
IFC plans to expand its activities in Mozambique. IFC activities continue to be limited to
foreign exchange earnings operations with offshore accounts to ensure foreign exchange is
available for debt service. In FY87, IFC approved a loan for the rehabilitation and
privatization of a major agricultural company, LOMACO, and in FY88, an investment for an
oil exploration project. In FY91, IFC approved a loan for a hotel project, which included the
first public share issue in Mozambique since independence. In FY92, IFC is considering
investments in an agricultural project and a hotel project. Annex IV contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC investments.
39.   Improvement in Project Implementation. As our project portfolio has increased in size
and complexity, a number of generic institutional bottlenecks have emerged, including delays
in hiring project staff/consultants and in processing disbursements applications. Many of these
problems stem from the rapid growth in our portfolio, with the result that many local staff are
not yet conversant with Bank procedures and requirements. Other problems stem from
capacity deficiencies in the implementing institutions. In addition, poor compensation
adversely affects the motivation and performance of civil servants. Our proposed country
strategy is to address these problems through a variety of means, including increasing
resources allocated to project supervision and devoting additional resources to training of local
staff in Bank procedures.  A Project Cycle Seminar (covering Bank procedures for
procurement, disbursements, accounting and auditing) and a Country Implementation Review
were held in Mozambique in FY91. In addition, during FY91, we placed a Senior Operations
Officer in the Resident Mission whose principal task is trying to improve project
implementation. The feedback from participants indicated that these activities were useful and
we plan to continue them in the future. Under the proposed ERC, we are also supporting a
review of contract approvals for services, civil works and consultants and management of
special accounts with a view to simplify clearance/review procedures and delegate the
management of project special accounts and contracts to sectoral ministries.



is
Table4: IDA LENDING OPERATIONS: FY8S-91
Board       Credit       %
Sector                          Approval     Amount        Of
Date    (USD million)  Total
Adjustment Xra&dmn
First Import Rehabilitation     10185       45.0         7.3
Second Import Rehabilitation    08/87       70.0        11.4
Second Imp. Rehab (Afric. Fac.)  08/97      18.6         3.0
lhird Import Rehabilitaion      05/89       90.0        14.6
EileIgy
Energy TA/Rehabilitation        05/87       20.0         3.2
Urban Household Energy          06/89       22.0         3.6
lkbhn
Urban Rehabilitation            08/88       60.0         9.7
Social Sector
Education & Manpower Dev.       05/88       15.9         2.6
Health and Nutrition            03/89       27.0         4.4
Education II                    12/90       53.7         8.7
Beira Corridor Transport        09/89       40.0         6.5
Industr andFiac
Industrial Ent Restuchting.     12/89       50.1         8.1
Small/Medium Scale Ent. Dev.    12/89       32.0         5.2
PublicSectorag~
Economic/Financial Mgm  TA      10/89       21.0         3.4
Agaricltr
Agric. Rehab./Development       09/90       15.4         2.5
Agric. Serv. Rehab./Devel.      01/92       35.0         5.8
40.   Macroeconomic .Mgme  and Public E;Dniture. Over the next three years, the
Bank's lending operations will be used to implement the s   articulated above. ihe first
objective, incorporated in the proposed Economic Recovery Credit, is to support fiurher
Improvements in public expendite management, poverty alleviton, reform of the foreign
exchange and trade regime, financial sector reform, and prvataon of large state entepries.
In view of the need to deepen furlher the policy and  iuftonal reforms In the financial and
enterpise sectors, the proposed ERC would be followed by sector adjustment operations in
FY93 and FY94.
41.                   . Allevi  Over the last few years in the course of our ESW we have
worked closely with Government and donors to develop a multi-facted strat  for poverty
reduction reflected in the Poverty Reduction Framework Paper, which was presented at the



16
1990 Consultative Group Meeting. The main message of the Poverty Reduction Framework
Paper is that while economic growth is crucial for poverty reduction, the focus must be on
implementing a growth strategy which enhances the income of the poor. Therefore, the Bank
strategy is focused on ways to increase the productivity of the poor and expand their
employment and income-generating opportunities, and on improving the delivery of basic
social services in order to build up their human capital. A "safety-net" will also be required to
assist those households with especially low incomes or large number of dependents. By
helping to maintain human capital during a period of economic transition, the "safety-net"
would not only assist needy families but also contribute to long-term development.
42.   As the bulk of the population derives its livelihood from small farms, increasing the
productivity of family farmers who make up the majority of the poor is central to the reduction
of the poverty at the household level. Therefore, our operations in the agricultural sector
would aim to support increased production and incomes in the family sector through provision
of basic services and rehabilitation of agricultural marketing and rural infrastructure.
Following upon the FY91 Agriculture Rehabilitation and Development Credit focused on the
rehabilitation of the cashew subsector, the development of agricultural services and recovery of
food crop and cotton production would be supported through the FY92 Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation and Development Project. Development of agricultural research and extension
acivities would be further supported through a FY95 Research and Extension Project.
Rehabilitation of the rural infrastructure would be supported through a FY96 Rural Roads
Project and Rural Rehabilitation Project.
43.   Expanding access to basic social services is a critical element in Mozambique's poverty
reduction strategy. To support this objective, the proposed ERC incorporates specific
measures to ensure that adequate budgetary resources are allocated to key social sectors and
support to smallholder agriculture. Our lending program includes projects geared towards
rehabilitating, improving quality, and eventually expanding the coverage of primary health and
education services and water and sanitation facilities. Health H (FY 94) will continue efforts to
strengthen basic health services, including pre-matern  health care; Education m will provide
support for expanding the coverage of the education sector; and Urban Rehabilitation II (FY95)
will support infrastructure rehabilitation of small and medium towns.
44.   In the short-term, many households, including labor-scarce households (female or
disabled-headed households with large number of dependents), will remain beyond the scope of
growth strategies. For those households, a number of "safety-net" measures will be needed.
Under the proposed ERC, measures are included to support the provision of indirect income
transfers through a subsidy on a nutritionally valuable but less-preferred commodity such as
maize; and provision of limited income transfers targeted to poor households, which would
replace the existing system of food rations. In rural areas, the Emergenc, Program is the main
"safety-net" to protect the rural war-affected poor. To date, the primary concern of the
Emergency Program has been to help ensure the survival of those displaced or affected by the
war through the free distribution of food aid. A Food Security Project (FY93) will assist
Government in the development of national institutional capacity for the formulation and
implementaton of food security policies and programs.
45.   Pvt Sector-Based Growth. Establishing a dynamic source of growth is essential for
Mozambique's long-term growth. Our operations would therefore support the rehabilitation of
key infrastructure, restruchtring and privatzation of state enterprises, and developing basic



17
commercial bankdng services and exports. The FY92 First Roads and Coastal Shipping
(ROCS) Project would support the development of government institutional capacity to
maintain the roads and small coastal ports, and the implementation of policy reforms in the
trucking and coastal shipping sub-sectors to support agricultural development. Where feasible,
the project construction and rehabilitation activities wil utilize labor intensive activities to
reduce rural poverty. Improved management of the Maputo Railway would be achieved
through the Maputo Corridor Revitalization Project. The second ROCS Project (FY94) would
support improved management and rebabilitation of the railroads. Rehabilitation of the energy
sector would be supported through a FY94 Energy Project. Building on the policy reforms
supported under the ERC, the FY93 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit would provide
technical assistance to improve the efficiency and solvency of financial institutions, and support
policy reforms to improve credit and monetary policy. The FY94 Enterprise Restructuring and
Privatization Credit would deepen the implementation of the parastatal reform initiated under
the ERC, provide technical assistance for privatization and support policy reforms for
promoting an enabling business environment. Expansion of the country's exports would be
supported through a FY96 Natural Gas Exports Project.
46.   Caciqy Builing. Even among low income countries, Mozambique stands out as
suffering from an especially acute shortage of skilled manpower, with only a few thousand
university-trained persons. Capacity creation through education and training is clearly an
essential element in the overall strategy for capacity building. Through a FY89 Economic and
Financial Management Technical Assistance Project, IDA is strengthening the administrative
and institutional capacity of the key ministries responsible for implementing the rehabilitation
program. In addition to the technical assistance included in investment projects to develop
project management capacity, a FY93 Capacity Building Project would strengthen management
capacity by increasing the quantity and quality of university graduates, improving learning
achievements in upper secondary education; strengthening legal institutions and professional
capability; and developing public administration and management skills and enhancing civil
service personnel systems. However, given the long lead time involved for development of
human resources, particular attention is being devoted to identifying ways to utilize existing
capacity more efficiently (see paragraph 39).
47.   There is also an urgent need for improvements in public pay in order to stem the
current "brain drain" out of the public service. Government has implemented a civil service
reform in 1991 and a new salary structure that will help in that regard, but additional measures
are needed to establish a unified, transparent wage structure, with more decompression.
Following the completion of a recent study, the Government has prepared an action plan for
increasing further the salary of top civil servants with financing provided by donors.
48.   Women in Development.  Women in Mozambique play vit  roles as farmers,
managers, decision makers and farm laborers. It is estimated that more than 60 percent of
family farmers are women. Under the FY92 Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and
Development Project, women farmers will have equal access to extension, training and credit.
Steps will also be taken to increase the mnmber of female extension staff and
women's participation in farmers' groups. Women's access to credit in urban areas is being
improved through the FY89 Urban Rehabilitation Project, which includes a small credit line
targeted to micrenterprises (80 percent of the beneficiaries are women) and technical
assistance provided through the Office for the Promotion of Employment of the Ministry of
Labor. While the FY89 Health and Nutrition Project is helping rehabilitate health facilities,



18
the FY94 Health 11 Project will include specific components targetd to pre-matern  health
care.
49.   Finally, enviMMnmnW issues have been covered as part of our ESW and in connction
to agricultural and urban development projects. Ihe FY92 Agricultural Services Rehabilitation
and Development Project contains components specifically targeted to soil conservation, and
the FY88 Urban Rehabilitation includes a component to improve solid waste management. The
next step is the preparation of an Enionment Strategy Note for FY92 which will aim at
identifying the main issues to be considered in our work program and propose
recommendations for specific actions in this area
50. For the four-year period FY92-95, planned IDA lending would average around
USD 160 million per annum, with approximately 41 percent in the form of adjustment lending.
In the event of serious policy slippage, leading for adjustment and for directly productive
activities would be reduced sharply and operations with significant policy contents would be
put on hold. However, lending for basic social services and capacity building would be
maintained as long as adequate implementation capacity exists. Likely indicators of policy
slippage would include:
o insufficient adjustment of the nomial exchange rate, leading to an increasingly
overvalued exchange rate and a widening of the gap between the official and th_
secondary market exchange rate;
3 inadequate adjustment of fixed prices, leading to an erosion of incentives for
production and marketing;
*  rapid credit expansion, pardy to finance the budgetary deficit, leading to a faiure of
the inflation rate to fall;
3 lack of progress in improving the composition of investments, manifested in
expenditures on "white elephant" and underfunding of priority secrs such as health
and education.
51.   If security were to improve as a resut of the peace negotiations, an increase In lending
would be considered, asuming overall economic management remains satisfactory, and
Improved implementation capacity. This would permit expansion of the size and coverage of
several projects to reach more of the rural population. In addition, it would allow the Bank to
assist the Government in the massive task of resettling several million of displaced persons and
returning refugees, and providing them with essential socia services and factors of production
to enable them to begin productive lives again.
52. Economig and Sector Work. Our ESW activities over the last few years have assisted
the Govenmet in developing specific policy and institutional reform measures at both the
macroeconomic and sectoral levels. ESW has also provided the analytical basis for preparation
of Bank projects and has contributed significantly to aid coordination by establishing a
famework for other donors. We intend to continue this process in the future, focusing our
eforts on areas where further policy and Instiuonal reforms are necessary to support
financay viable and equitable growth. In line with t  need to deepen the reform program so
as to maintn an appropriate economic policy environment, four main sets of activies



19
included in our ESW program are: (a) improved prioritization and productivity of public
expenditure through a FY92 Public Expenditure Review, and education sector reports on basic
and higher education; (b) improvement in the system of incentives for exports through a FY93
Review of Export Incentives and Foreign Exchange Allocation; (c) development of a strategy
for restructuring and privatization of state enterprises; and (d) strengthening of rural marketing
and credit. We also propose to begin a number of studies under the ESW program to assist
Government in planning for the post-war period, including devising strategies for private
sector development, expanding the provision of basic health/nutrition, education, water supply
and housing services, preparing an Environmental Strategy Note, and carrying out a review of
the development potential of the mining sector.
53.   Since 1987, the Bank has successfully assisted the Government in mobilizing the
necesary external assistance through annual CG meetings. The donor community has strongly
supported the ERP/ESRP, providing external assistance averaging over USD 1 billion a year
since 1987 in the form of grants, loans on higly concessional terms and debt relief. Pledges
made at the fifth CG meeting, held in December 1991, indicate that this level of support is
likely to continue. The CG meetings have also become an effective mechanism for donor
coordination and consultation on a number of substantive issues. Major progress has been
achieved in untying foreign aid, providing aid in the form of grants rather than loans,
simplifying and harmonizing donor procedures for procurement, developing common donor
procedures with respect to management of food ail counterpart funds, and developing a
strategy for reduction of poverty and food security. Further improvements will be necessary In
a number of areas, including improving the composition of external aid to increase investment
productivity and develop a common counterpart fund for the proceeds of all commodity aid.
The Resident Mission plays a central role In aid coordination and is taking the lead in settlng
up joint Government/donor working groups to develop strategies and core expenditure
programs in the key sectors and in working with donors to establish a common counterpart
fund from the proceeds of commodity aid to be used for general budgetary support.
Rations with the IMF
54.   IDA and the BMF have worked closely with Government in the design and monioring
of Mozambique's adjustment program. Since 1987, the Bank and IMP have carried out joint
missions annualy to develop with Government the three-year PFPs. The ESRP was supported
by IDA through three IDA rehabilitation ctedits in 1985, 1987 and 1989. The I11 has also
provided assistance in the form of a Stuctural Adjustment Facility covering the period 1987-89
followed by an Enbanced Structral Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in support of a program for
1990/91 and 1991/92. Bank and Fund staff have been in permanent consultation on the
program whose policies for demand management provide the underpinning for the structura
reforms supported by this operation.
D. &mm=   ent
55.   Since 1987, the Bank has assisted the Government in designing and implementing a
major economic reform program, providing both adjustment and investment credits and
coordinating overall external aid in support of the program. In general, performance in
carrying out the reforms has been satisfactory, reflecting the Government's high level of



20
political commitment to the program and the broad agreement between the Government and
ourselves on the policy agenda. The main achievements were to reduce financial distortions
(prices, custom tariffs, and exchange rate), strengthen the role of the budget in the
prioritization of government resources and address the most important causes of external and
intemal imbalances (decline in output, high rate of credit expansion and inadequate tax revenue
system).
56.   Despite the gains achieved since the initiation of the ERP, Mozambique fices major
challenges. The inflationary pressures need to be reduced further. Structural reforms in the
financial and state enterprise sectors are required to consolidate stabilization. Further progress
in public expenditure management is needed for improving the productivity of govenument
expenditures and reducing poverty while strengthened mobilization of counterpart fumds is
needed to provide budgetary resources for critical economic and social services. At the same
time, civi service reform is required to stem the drain of skilled civil servants and increase
governmnent's ability to attract new graduates.  These challenges are reflected in the
Government's Policy Framework Paper as well as in the Bank's assistance strategy. However,
the magnitude of the challenges faced by Mozambique is so great that economic adjustment and
achievement of Mozambique's full potential will be a long-term process. Substantial foreign
assistance, including debt relief, will continue to be required to provide essential inputs and
consumer goods that cannot be competitively produced domestically, develop the nation's
human resources and restore the basic infrastructure.
57.   The main risks to continued successful implementation of the programs stem from two
factors-the extremely weak local capacity and the uncertain political situation in the country.
Capacity building will be a major focus of our ESW and lending activities. However,
conclusion of a peace agreement is also a fundamental factor in bringing about sustainable
growth and poverty reduction in Mozambique. Ihe county is curently in a period of political
transition that is both very complex and fragile. For so long as a peace agreement seems to
have a reasonable chance of success and Mozambique condnues to carry out reforms in both
the economic and political spheres, we should see our support as an important component of
the process. If peace is achieved, Governmen may request an increase in support to assist in
the resettlement of the displaced population, retrning refugees and ex-military personnel. As
the security situation improves, a rise in IDA lending may also be warranted to allow for the
resulting increase in the geographical coverage of investment projects as well as to take
advantage of new investment opportunities. Conversely, if progress on peace and political
refom does not move forward quicldy, Mozambique could enter a protracted period of
confusion whereby the capacity of the Government to make policy choices and to carry them
out may become even more limited. If the pace of adjustment becomes significantly slower
and more uneven, coupled with continued or htensified insecurity in the rural areas, we would
consider scaling down our operations, fosing our assistance on enhancing the provision of
basic social services and on developing the professional and technical skills which will be
needed in the future.



21
PART 1I: PROPOSED SMUCTURAL ADlUS4T CRED1T
58. The proposed operation would support the continued implementation of the reform
program outlined in the 1991-93 Policy Framework Paper. The ERC builds on the experience
and progress made in the implementation of the lTird Rehabilitation Credit, particularly as
concerns foreign exchange allocation and public expenditure management. However, given the
scope of the adjustment to be undertaken by the Mozambican economy, the ERC would
support a time slice component of the reforms focusing on two themes, which are the key to
Bank assistance strategy in Mozanbique (see paragraphs 36-52). The first is the enhancement
of prvate-based sector growth by improving the foreign exchange allocation system and
management of foreign aid, strengthening export and prce incentives, restrucuriing and
privatizing state enterprises and developing basic commercial banking services. The second is
the need to protect a set of high-priority programs in primary and secondary education, basic
health and agricultura extension services, and establishing a limited scheme for targeted direct
income transfers during the current transition period.
59.   The following sections outline the proposed reforms supported by the ERC. A draft
Letter of Development Policy, accompanied by a policy matrix for the credit, is presented in
Annex I and II.
A. Enhamnt of Privat Setor-Based Growth
60.   Four components of the proposed credit aim at enhancing private sector-based gowth:
the reform of the foreign exchange allocation system, improvement of price and export
incentives, the development of basic commercial banking services, and the restructuring of the
state enterprise sector.
Foreign Exehange Allocation
61.   Past Adjustment Efforts. When preparation of the ERC was initiated in mid-1991, the
following elements characterized the foreign exchange market:
o The official exchange rate was substantially overvalued as shown by the 50 percent
premium of the secondary market exchange rate relative to the official xchnge rate;
*   Foreign exchange was predominantly adminstratvely allocated as both the SNAAD
and the secondary market for foreign exchange were small, amounting to 5-6 percent
of merchandise imports;
* Because of cumbersome administrative requirements, the cost to firms of imports
financed through import support funds was significantly higher than when financed
through the secondary market for foreign exchange, whih adversely affected the scope
for unifying the official and the secondary market exchange rate.13
13 See paragraph 27.



22
WINDOWS FOR FOREIGN EXCHANGE ALLOCATON
(Share of Import Support Funds Including Export Earnings)
ERi    
Import Entitlement        Sndar Mket I%
[Funds BO fns20|                          hn 6 
SNAAD/ImportEtdaa(0%)



23
62.  E£gBSuportd Refonnmftg   . lbe objective of the ERC program Is to establish
a market for foreign exchange allocation by: (i) including all export eanings and untied
official aid within the secondary market for foreign exchange (see Chart above); and
(ii) harmonizing the import cost difference between untied aid and the firms' own foreign
exchange generated by exports. Tne market would have the following characteristics:
* It would consolidate about four separate foreip exchange windows into one market
amounting to about 68 percent of Mozambique's import support funds including export
earnings in 1992, which would provide finacing for about 50 percent of impots of
goods and services;
o  It would be non-administered in the sense that foreign exchange would be allocated
through a market-determined exchange rate-the secondary market exchange rate;
*  It would be open in the sense that no restrictions would be imposed on the demand for
foreign exchange with the exception of a small negative list.
63. As a result of these changes, there would be two exchange rates during the current
transition period. While the secondary market exchange rate would apply to untied aid and
euport earnings, the special exchange rate-which concerns tied aid-would be set slightly
low ' (by about 8 percent) than the secondary market exchange rate so as to take into account
the cost differential between tied and untied aid. It is expected that by September 1992 the
exchange rates would be unified. As discussed in paragraphs 27-28, unification would be
facilitated if donors were to continue to untie extern  aid.
64.   To create a consolidated foreign exchange market, the Government has implemented
the following measures:
I. The secondary market for foreign exchange was enlarged by allowing exports of
non-traditional products to sel their eanings In that market (July 1991);
H. Eports of traditional products were allowed to sell their export earningp In the
secondary market (April 1992);
i. The offcial exchange rate was devalued to reduce the premum of the secondar
market exchange rate to 5 percent or leas (July 1991-March 1992);
lv. The procedures applying to Imports financed by untied ald were modified. To
failitate the unification of the secondary markt and untied aid, the list of
products to be excluded from IDA finag was kept small and admInistve
procedures were simpfled;
v. The rules applying to the foreign exhn  market were prepared (April 1992).
Under the new system Banco de Mosamblque (BMI) will sell foreign exchge to
commercial bank, and banks will be allowed to open letts of credit; and
vi. Terns of reference for ldenfing the technical assitance needs of the Foreign
Exchnge Department of Banco de Mopambique were prepared.



24
65.   It is expected that before effectiveness of the credit, the management and monitoring of
untied import support funds will have been effectively transferred from the Ministry of
Commerce (GCPI) to BM. To Improve the accountng and reporting procedures applying
to the Import support funds managed by the Foreign Exchange Department of Banco de
Mooambique, consultant services will be contracted by end-1992.
66.   Following effectiveness of the ERC, funds provided under the ERC will be made
available through the secondary market in order to develop a foreign exchange market in which
the exchange rate will be market-based and firms will have unrestricted access to foreign
exchange. Thefanctionig of a revised, consolidated foreign exchange maet in a iunner
salisfac*ny to IDA for the preceding six months k a condWon of Second Tlanche Release.
llm xmet in Prh and lExpo  Lun&lm
67.   Backgroun. When the preparation of the ERC was inidated, the following elements
characterized financial incentives and markedng:
* Industrial prices were being adjusted on the basis of cost subject to ex post agreement
by Government ("conditioned prices");
•  Agricultural trade among provinces was generally not allowed; import and marketing
of incentive goods in rural areas were done by state enterprises;
e  Farm products were purchased oy state enterprises at prices close to floor prices (for
crops subject to such prices); and
X Exports were taxed, although exemptions were generally granted.
68.   Past Adiustment Effrts. The ERC objective is to improve financial incentives by
reducing export taxes, removing constaints on agricultural marketing, and liberaizing the
prices of m    ed goods. To achieve these objecdves, the Governnt has implemented
the following measures:
1. Inter-provincal trade In agricultural goods was Uberalized (Decree of June 1991);
i. A study of the role of AGRUCOM-the statowned agriuluhwal marketing
agency-was Initiated In 1991-92; and
I. Export taxes were reduced from 3.5-12.5 percent to 0.5 perent In October 1991.
69.   ERCSupred.   Reform Progr. To ensure that firms and agricultural producers
could tal i fall advantage of the new stucture of incentives resulting from exchange rate
adjustment and increased availaility of incentives goods, the Government will implement the
following action plan:
}.  he system  of conditioned prices ("ex-post price markup  contr") for
manufactured products (with the exception of products for which a domestIc



25
monopoly exists) will be abolished for a signflcant number of products In lne
wlth the enlargement of the secondary market for foreign xchange by end-X992;
H. Registration procedures, which currently limt competitlon among traders wil be
eliminated by mid-l992;
ill. The role of AGRICOM will be reviewed with the objective of achieving equal
treatment among al buyers and traders by end-1992;
Wv. The difference between the previous system of fixed prices and the current system
of mhinmum prices for agricultural products, which allows for market-determined
prices, will be publicized seasonally, and a methodology for determining the
relevant border prices and the commerdal margins to be deducted for setting the
fioor prices for cashew and cotton (two key exports for Mozambique) will be
developed by end-1992; and
v. A comprehensive review of export policies will be carried out by end-1992.
70.   Furthermore, as part of the privatization program, "Caju de Mopambiquew (CM)
will be prlvatized. CM is one of Mozambique's largest enterprises, involved in the
management of the cashew processing industry and the six state-run processing plants, and the
functioning of the cashew procurement and marketing systems, including the importation and
distnbution of consumer goods to producing areas. The ERC would complement the
rehabilitation of the cashew subsector supported by the FY91 IDA Agricultural Rehabilitation
and Development Project, through the preparation of CM for privatization in 1992.
Reform of the Finanlal Sector
71.   When preparation of the ERC credit started in mid-1991, the following elements
characterized the banking sector:
e The banking sector was dominaed by Banco de Mogambique (BM), which acted both
as the Central Bank and as a commercial bank;
*  Commercial bankig services provided by the three existing banks were limited;
*  Incentives to lend were distorted by a complex structure of interest rates while
banks' incentives to mobilize deposits were limited by their excess liquidity;
• Banks were burdened with non-performing loans to the state sector;
* Fiscal and credit activities were both carried out by BM and the Ministry of Finance.
Quasi-fiscal expenditures were incurred by BM when It extended short-term credit to
Government free of charges or assumed foreign exchange losses on account of the
budget; and credit was extended by the Ministry of Fmance to selected enterprises
when it allowed them to pay counterpart fimds owed to Govermnent over a period of
time. This was recorded through the issuance of promissory notes by enterprises
(-letras do Tesouro").



26
72.   The OtC-Sum        brm   ln.  Reform of the baning sector was initiated
under the Third IDA Rehabilitation Credit. Progress wa made in restructuring the banking
sector,14 increasing the role of inte   rates in lending and deposit mobilizaton, modifying the
relations between the public sector and the banking system (see paragraphs 9-10), and
separating the central baning accunts from the commercial banking accounts of Banco de
Mopambique in June 1991.
73.   The ERC program would support the second-phase of the banking sector reform aimed
at: (i) strening the BM's role in formulating monetary policy, supervising and regulating
the banking system and managing foreign exchange resources; (u) separating lending and fiscal
activities between BM and the Ministry of Finance; Oii) improving baeking services through
greater competition and the entry of new banks; and (iv) rationalizing banks' incentives to lend
and mobilize deposits. Medium-term issues related to the establishment of an instional
framework for indirect monetary control, domestic resource mobilization and fiancial
intermediation would be pursued mainly through a FY93 IDA Financial Sector Credit
74.   The establishment of a strong, independent Central bank and a separate commercia
bank is a key objective of the ERC program. While the Central Bank will focus on cental
banking activities such as: Issuing currency, managing foreign exchange reserves and
government deposits and transactions, inspecting and supervising commercial financial
sutions, and proviing services to financial institutions, the new commercial bank wil
carry out the commercial banng functions previously assumed by Banco de Mogambique. To
achieve these objectives, the Government has initiated the implementaton of the following
reform program as follows:
I. A new central banking law and a general banking law were adopted by Parliament
In December 1991;
i. Banco de Mogambique (Central Bank) and Banoo Comeril de Mopmblque
(CIM) were established In early 1992 as separa enities with Independent Boards
of Direcors;
li. As a codton of Second Dwnche Relase:  (a) the accoun*  of Banco de
Moqmblque wnd Bano Comerdal de Mopinbqw will be JkUy sepwated  and
(l) the balne-sheetfor 1991 for BM wl be iazed by end-1992,
hv. Regular and tmely publicaton of unaudited central bank accunts will begin by
end-1992. Following the audidng of the commerca  accounts of BCII, now being
cared out under the IDA Small and Medim Sale Industrial Development
Credit, the Central Bank's acounts will be audited stating with the 1993; and
v. Tehnical _ncewill be provided In the following six areas: monetary policy;
banking supevision and rulation; foreign exchange management; accountng
14  M  Govenment has aumed he pr1987 stock of no-efrming loa  (MZM 117 billion
acconng for 34 pecet of BM's portfolio and 78 percent of BPD's portfolio) in 1987. TM  last
paynt is expaeted to take place in 1992.



27
and auditing; monetar sascs; and legal Issues. An on-going dialogue with
bilateral donors, ]DA and the IMF has helped provide the required exe.
75.   Improvement In monetary control will also require separating the fiscal and credit
operations of the Treasury and the Central Bank. To achieve this objective, the Government
has taken the following measures:
1. Lending acdvities carried out by the Minitry of Ftasnce through the lssuance of
"letras do Tesourow to enterprises have ceased (April 1992); and
H. Quasi-iscal expenditures Incurred by BM will be assumed by the Ministry of
Fnance. To that effect, forelgn exchange risk on government loans wil be
assumed by Governent, and Interest rates on temporary advances to the budget
will be levied by BM In 1992.
76. An important element for the development of banking services is increased
competition. This will be achieved through: (a) restructuring of BCM; (b) allowing banks to
perform the same banking functions, as stated in the new banking law (December 1991); and
(c) providing a legal framework for the entry of new banks. To achieve these objectives, the
following actions will be carried out:
1. The Government will continue to assume pro-1987 non-performing loans of BCM
as agreed under the 1987 agreement, and by end-1992, the Government will
prepare an action plan concening the restructuring of BCM;
H. By April 1992, banks wi have access to foreign exchange through the Centrl
Bank, which wllH enable them to issue Letters of Credit;
Di. As a condition of Second Thanche Release, the Govemment wil have adopted
ogtons sasadoay to IDA for icensing new  banks, and r&pkmend
proedures satlbdory to IDA for the assesment and approval of applicaons for
bakng likeses submtted to  anmo de Mopabique.
77. In line with the establishment of a commercial banking sector, banks' incentives to lend
and mobilize deposits have been increased through the following measures:
1. Credit ceiligs were re-apportioned among bank  In 199  to give a greater
emphasis to deposit mobilization, and specifically the moblizton of time
deposits; and
I. Differences in lending rates among sectors were removed and interet rtes were
inased  with  the result that implicit subsidies have been  elminated
(April I992).5
Is  See pargph 10.



28
In addition, lending rates will be deregulated In 1993 within a band spedfied by the
Central Bank at posltve real levels.
Entdse RestructuringUmvatizton
78.   R      Adjug=  Effort   Privatization and restructurin  of state enterprises has
affected 120 small and medium enterprises. Of these enterprises, 71 were outright sales for a
total value of MZM 10 billion (approximatey USD 10-20 million); 19 were converted into
joint ventures with a total capitalization of USD 34 million, and 22 were restructured through
lea  arrangements and management contracts. Although the program has so far worked well,
the Government realizes that a more comprehensive program is needed to deal with the larger
and more complex state enterprises.
79.   To set the stage for the expanded program, the Government has enacted several laws
in July 1991 tlat provide te legal base for privatization. The most significant are:
*  The law on DrivatizWtion Law No. 15/91 of Augst 3. 1221L which provides for
the comrmercialization, restructuring and sale of state-owned enterprises, and
outlines which activities would be retained within the public sector.
*  Ihe law  on  va neis     which introduces measures to improve the
performance and accountability of state enterprises.  The law regulaes the
corporate structure of stae enteprises and introduces the concept of Boards of
Directors in Mozambique's commercial code.
80.   As part of the process of preparing enterprises for privatization, the Govenment is
working to resolve the issue of the potential property claims of the previous owners of
"intervened enterprises". As stipulated in the August 1991 law, the Government is clarifying
the legal situation of "intervened" enterprises which, although abandoned by their previous
owners, were not considered property of the state. Notification was put .ied to inform
previous owners of Govenument's intention of either rebuning enterprises to their former
owners, or selling them to private investors, transforming them into public enterprises or
closing them down. This process affects about 140 intervened enterprises.
81.   In view of the large number of state or "mixed' enterprises in Mozambique, the
privatization process wiU inevitably take a number of years to carry out, and some enterprises
intended for eventual privatzation will contnue to be publicly managed for an interim period.
For these entepries, Government plans to increase managerial authority and accountability,
encourage use of management contrcts with the prvate sector, and systematically review other
steps which could enhance the efficiency with which these enterprises are run. The
restrucring of state enterprises ( those that would remain property of the state) along
commercial lines would be iniiated through the ERC and further deepened through a proposed
IDA Privatzation Project.
82.   E ASuMpOed Rtft=   gam. An important focus of the reform program is to
put in place a solid institutional base for managing the prvatization program and restructuring
stat enterprises along commercial lines. ITe key meaures to be supported by the ERC



29
concern: (a) the establishment of a privatization process; and (b) the preparation of an action-
plan for privatization/restrucuring of a first group of selected state enterprises.
83.   To achieve the first objective, the Govermment has implemented the following action
plan to establish a transparent process towards privatization:
i. A formal policy statement was prepared and widely d       ted  (November
1991); and the guidelines that define the objectives, strategy and scope of
privatization were published (December 1991);
ii. An Inter-Ministerial Commission for Enterprise Restructuring (CIRE) was created
in November 1991; CIRE will be the central focus for management and
Implementation of the privatization program  for large enterprises.16   Tbe
Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit, which was set up to manage the
IWA-financed Industrial Restructuring Project, has been nominated as the
secetariat to the CIRE. It is charged with the responsibility of implementing the
guidelines and criteria for the selection and preparation of larger enterprises for
privatization; and
il. The terms of reference for advisor to strengthen UTRE were prepared.
84.   The second objective of the ERC is to support the privatizationlrestructuring of state
enterprises. The Government has identified about 25 large enterprises that will be restructured
(transformed into commercial public enterprises, joint ventures or privatized) over the
medium-term, of which at least five are expected to be prepared for privatization in 1992.17
The enterprises to be privatized were selected on the basis of their attractiveness and readiness
for  privatization.    They  include  large   enterprises,  including   Caju   de
Mogambique-Mozambique's largest exporter.
85.   To achieve this objective, the Government has developed an action plan for the
privatzation of at least five state enterprises in 1992, which includes monitorable steps for:
preparation of financial statements and audited accounts; valuation of the enterprises;
preparation of company dossiers; advertisement in local and international newspapers to allow
equitable opportunity for all private investors to participate; review of investor's proposals;
negotiation; and approval of transaction by Government. A similar plan will be prepared for
the following year.  Saactory progress in implmentation of above action plan     a
condision of Second TInche Release. Satsfactory progress woud mean  w  UMRE has
prepared tenns of reference for techical assitance and that, on that basi, the Government
through UTRE has selected and contracted consu 'ants' sences for prepadng the following
measures for at least five enterprises to be privatized () clarl* the ownership of the
1'  CIRE is chaired by the Pme-Minister and includes the Ministes of Finance, Planng,
Coopeation, ndustry, Agicultwe and the Govemor of the Cental Bk Large entpes ae
defined as enterpises employing over 300 employees.
17   he fiVe enterpises would be selected from the following list  IFLOMA, FRIGO', CAJU DE
MOVAMBIQUE, COMEIAL, EMPLANA, and FORJADORA.



30
enterripses; (E) value the assets of the enterprises as going concerns; (gi) recommend te
most apprpriate method of sale; and (iv) prepare flns' dossiers or sale.
86.   Although Government's intention is to privatize most state and intervened entelprises,
a few enterprises, mainly public utilities, are expected to remain within the public sector. To
that effect:
1. An action plan will be formulated for changing the legal status of these public
utiflities to lndted liability companies, establishing board of directors, and
developing a timetable for auditing of state enterprise accounts (end-1992);
ii. A moratorium on the creation of new state enterprises (as defined by Decee 2181)
wiD remain In force (1992-93); and
iii. Budgetary subsidies to state enterprises will be less than 1.5 percent of GDP
(1992-93).
B. Public Expenditure Managment and Poverty Reduction
87.   Backgurn . The destruction of the economic and social infrastructure resulting from
the war and the fall in social expenditures in real terms during the 1980-87 period have created
bottlenecks to the establishment of long-term economic growth and the reduction of poverty.
Social indicators have declined to levels that are low, even by the modest standards of Sub-
Saharan Africa. Life expectancy is about 49 years in Mozambique compared to 51 years in
Sub-Saharan Africa, while infant mortality is 137 per thousand in contrast to 107 per thousand
in the region. The problems are both institutional and financial. Relative to GDP, recurren
budgetary expenditures are high, amounting to 25.9 percent of GDP in 1991. However, there
are dominant requirements for recurrent military expenditures (9.5 percent of GDP in 1991)
and interest payments on the government's debt (3.5 percent of GDP), which leaves little
resources for other expenditures. The result has been a shortage of domestically-generated
funds for externally-financed projects and maintining the salary of skilled civil servans at
competitive levels. Until recently, the prevailing planning and budgeting system reinfrced
these problems as there was no systematic mechanism for prioritizing budgetary expenditures
and reviewing with donors the selection of externally-financed Investment projects at an
aggregate level.
88.   Past Adjustment Efforts.  Significant institutional changes were implemented to
transform the government budget into a key policy instrument for prioritizing state
expenditures and reducing poverty. Tnese include:
e prioritzaion of government investment ( see paragraph 8); and
* reform of the civil service pay and employment structure (see paragraph 31).
89.   In addition to strengthening the prioritization of budgetary expenditures, Government
has initiated a review of the approval process of contracts related to investment projects with a
view to decentralize such decisions to sectoral ministries. ITree groups have been created



31
within Government to devise standard contracts for civil works, individual consultants and
service contracts.
90.   For the households which remain beyond the scope of growth strategies, Government
has begun to provide targeted income transfers for the most vulnerable households in selected
urban areas, focused especially on meeting their basic food needs. To this end, it has set goals
for Improving the efficiency of food subsidies by concentrating them on a commodity (yellow
maize) consumed mainly by the poor. As the importance of the National Food Distribution
System "NSA" for food security has decreased substantially, Govermment intends to eliminate
the NSA by July 1993. Instead, Government will continue to develop a recently-established
targeted income transfer schemes in Maputo and other urban areas for vulnerable urban
households with no significant earning potential. Overall, the income transfer scheme would
amount to 2.5 percent of budgetary expenditures in 1992.
91.   ERCTSuphort  Reform Progrm. 'Me objectives of the ERC are to: (a) strengthen
the prioritization of budgetary expenditures initiated under the Third IDA Rehabilitation
Credit; (b) improve project implementation and accounting and reporting procedures for
external aid; (c) redeploy budgetary expenditures towards key social sectors and support to
smallholder agriculture; and (d) reduce the transitional costs of adjustment of poorest
households.
92.   The prioritization of budgetary expenditures will be strengthened through the following
measures:
i. As condiion of Second Tanche Release, a 1992-94 three-year nvestment plan and
three-yearfinancil plan sadtsfactory to IDA will be prepared with a view to birove
the conssency between investment and recurrent expendtures, ensure adequate
phasing of investnent, and coherence with aggregate macroeconomic objectives;
ii. Civil servants' financial incentives to renain within the civil service wiH be
strengthened starting In 1992 following the implementation of a plan that
Government has prepared with bilateral assistance;
ibl. As local currency resources available to the budget have been limited by the
undercolection of counterpart funds, Government will design and introduce a
harmonZed system for the colection of counterpat funds.
93.   Improvement in the project implementation and accounting and monitoring procedures
for exten  aid will be achieved through the implementation of a Financial Management Action
Plan (FMAP). The FMAP includes three time-bound phases as follows:
i. The first phase Is for Government to respond to Issues raised In the audit reports
of the Second and Third IDA Rehabilitation Credits and the IDA  naucial
Management Technical Assistance Project by June 11, 1992.
H. The  second   phase  consists  of  contracting   consultants' services  by
September 30, 1992 for reviewing credit documentation, preparing up-o-date
project accounts, Identifying items and value of misprocurement, If any, and
completing the recovery of the specal accounts of the Second Rebabilitadon



32
Credit. A condition for the release of the Second tranche of the ERC Is the
submission to IDA of detailed progress on the implementaton of the FMAP. The
progress repoit wll cover the audits of the three credis mentioned above, and include
a diagnostic of the situaton and steps taken to date.
iii. The third phase includes contracting external consultants' sevices by
October 31, 1992 to:
* Improve accounting and reporting procedures, system and controls for
management of the ERC;
*  Provide direct support and on the job training to Banco de Mo;ambique for
the management of the ERC; and
e Recommend appropriate steps to improve disbursement by, inter aL;a,
decentralizing financial management of credits by Banco de Moambique
and streamlining approval of contracts and payments by the Ministry of
Finance. It is expected that agreed standard contracts concerning civil
works, Individual consultants and service contracts will be implemented by
mid-1992.
94.   There is now broad agreement that poverty reduction will require a significant
redeployment of expenditures towards key areas in the social sectors. In this context, the
Government has set targets for critical recurrent programs (primary and secondary education,
basic health care, and agricultural extension services). These targets were reviewed with IDA
and translated into minimum objectives to be achieved in 1992-93 as follows:
I. lInprove the availability of non-wage inputs needed to enhance the quality of
services for education and health through increasing (a) 99D2 non-wage
expenditures per primary and secondary students by 1.5 percnt In real terms;
and (b) aependitures on drugs and medical supplies to at least USD 0.9 and
USD 1.0 per capita In 1992 and 1993, respectively; and
ii. As condton of Second Trhnche Release, the budgetar allocations from dometc
sources will be increased in real tenns from 1992 to 1993 by at least: I permnt
for educaion, 1.5 percentfor agdriulure and 4.5 percentfor heal.
95.   To increase basic health coverage, in early 1992 the Government has allowed NGOs
and private entities to provide health care. To enhance the utilization of existing social
infastucture, the Government will:
i. prepare an Inventory of donor supported health activities;
U. revise the structure of the Mnistry of Health (MOB) and establish procedures
for auditing MOH; and
IlH. prepare a manpower development plan, including budgetary Implications.



33
96.   Table 3 convys a sense of the efforts that the Government is making to redirect more
resources into high-priority programs. From 1987 to 1991 allocations for operatons and
maintece expenditures in the key soci sectors were increased substanally. Futher
ncrease in budgetary expenditures for the social sectors and agricul    would be supported
under the ERC.
TABLE 3: SHARES OF KEY SECTORS IN TOTAL BUDGETARY
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
Agriculure         2.7       1.7        1.7       1.9        2.0
Education         11.0      12.7       12.0      13.5       14.1
Health             5.1       5.6        4.9       6.3        6.9
Defense           46.o      42.7       39.7      38.9       36.0
97.   The ERC would also support specific measures to reduce the transitional socil costs of
adjustments, Improve policy formulation towards food security, and increase transparency in
the distribution of state farm land. These objectives would be achieved through the
Implementation of the following measures:
I.  A central and coordination body for poliy formulation and coordination of
sectoral activities wifl be established (mid-19M);
H. The Implementtion .f the income transfer schemes In Naputo and other selected
urban areas wi be reviewed In early 1993; and
Il. As condlion of Second  Inche Rdease, a repofl on l   diwtdon and trawtr
of and iights to smulw ds  and pvate entepi*es trogh Setember3, 1992
wl be prepared by Government.
PART III: FEATURES OF THIE }rPOlP   RED
A. Crdt Amunt Tranchig. Coordnation and Cofnuch
98.   Borrower and Loan Amount. An aegate amount of USD 180 milion equivalent is
enviged for the proposed credit. Switzerland has indicated that it will provide cofinancing
for the ERC. Ihe Borrower would be the Republic of Mozambique.
99.   Credit Amount and Trachina. The proposed opetion would be disbursed In two
tranches. The first tranche of USD 87.5 million would be available upon credi efflctiveness.
The second tranche of USD 87.5 million, to be released about 9 months month later, would be
contingent upon satisfactory implementation of the overall program, in addition to the specific
conditions listed below. It is xpected ta about USD 10 million would be disbursed to
fiane  drought-related impor for the purpose of restorig giculture's producive poteil.
Such Inmorts would include seeds, agriculltual tool and the rest       of livesok



34
Disbursemen  for technical assistance and consultants' services (estmat  at USD) 5 million)
would be made on the basis of 100 percent of total expenditures and would not be disbursed in
tranches. The closing date of the credit would be June 30, 1995.
B. a1buis  MLnt. earurement  d Audiing
100.  Dsbursem an dPrm e     The Credit would reimburse 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of the Imports eligible for financing under the enlarged secondary
marketlSNAAD. Most of the credit would be used to fimce imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods and spare parts, equipment as well as consumer goods, excepting those on a
negative list agreed with Government. Financing of petroleum products and food products
would be limited to USD 36 million, each or 20 percent of the credit proceeds. Imports
procured under contracts less than USD 5,000 would not be eligible for financing. Retroactive
financing of up to USD 36 milion would be provided to retroactively finance imports
undertaken during four months preceding credit effectiveness.
101. Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of the funds while
ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process. Imports by the Government and the
privat sector would follow international competitive bidding (ICB) for conuat exceeding
UTSD 1.0 milion. For amounts between USD 1.0 million and USD 0.5 million, limited
intetional bidding woud apply. Below USD 0.5 million, private sector purchases would
follow established commercial practices, and whenever possible, obtain two pro-forma invoices
from eligible suppliers from at least two countries. Direct conacting (single source purchase)
could be used for proprietary equipm.nt or where compatiility with existing equipment would
call for standadized equipment and spare parts. Pre-shipment inspection of price, quality and
quanity, as well as relevant import documentation, is being carried out by an Independent
Inspection Agency (SOS). These procedures would also apply to retroactive financing.
102.  To facilitate disbursemen, a special account would be established in a commercial
iu twion acceptable to IDA. Ihe authorized initial deposit into the special account would
total USD 34 million. The account would be replenished reguarly based upon supporting
documentation submitted to the Bank including withdrawal applications and replenis
umder the Special Account Disbursements would be made on the basis of staements of
expenditures for all expenditures costing less than USD 250,000. Expenditures costing more
than USD 250,000 would be fidly documented. Banco de Mogambique which has the
responsibility of maintaning Credit Accounts and submiting withdrawal applications, would
indicate on the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) the natre and origin of the goods, as well
as the payable date, and would mainain all relevant supporting documentation for review by
su yvisory missions.
103.  Audi". Bn  de Monmbique would be responsible for monitoring credit accounts
and for arging annual audi of the special accounts by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audits of the Special Accounts and of the supporting dometion of the SOEs
and the auditor's reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of Banco de
MoQambique's fiscal year. The auditors would present separate opinions on the Project
Accounts, the Special Accounts and the use of the Statement of Expenditures procedure.
104.  IDA would also monior the disbursemnt of fimds which it would admister on behalf
of cofinacles. This would be done through the normal supervision missions. k is as



3S
expected that some cofinanciers will join IDA supervision missions from time to time In order
to make their own assessment of progress under the ERC.
C. Managment and Monitoring o!fI hem
105.  Banco de Moambique will have responsibility for coordnating and monioring the
implemention of the program, although the implementation of individual components will be
carried out by the relevant ministries and instuftions.  The Mistry of Finance will be
pAmarily responsible for the implementation of the public expenditure and privaXtiz a
components of the ERC; the National Commission of Planning will be involved In the public
investment component; and the Ministy of Commerce will be responsible for the reform of
agricultural marketing. An inter-ministerial committee, the CREE, chaired by the Prime
Minister, will oversee the overall implementation of the progrm.
106. Progress in implementation of the reform program as detailed in the LDP (Annex 1)
has been sadsftory so far. However, the implementation capacity of the Govemet is weak
and therefore close monitoring of the program by Bank staff and tecbnical assistance to the
Goverument will be essential. Monitoring will involve frequent supervision missions by
headquarters. Bank staff will coordinate with IMP staff in monhoring key maeconomic
indicators. Staff at the local mission in Maputo will work closely with all the parties Involved
in implemenig the program and keeping headquarters informed of all developments.
107.  Conditions for Second Tranche Releas. The Policy Matrix (Annex 11) contains the
monitorable actions of the program The specifications listed below are proposed as conditions
for second Tranche Release.
Overal Macroeconomic Framework
1. The macroeconomic performance is consistent with the objectives of the ERC as
mentioned in paragraph 9 of the Letter of Development Policy.
Overall Iuplementation of the ERC Pfrogram
2. Progress achieved in implementng the time-bound program is satisfactory.
Foreign Exchange Alocadon
3. The rvied, consolidated foreign exchange market has been functioning in a
manner satisfactory to IDA for the preceding six months.
Banldng Sector
4. The separation of accounts of Banco de Mogambique and Banco ComerciW de
Mogambique have been completed, and the balance sheet for Banco de Mopmbique
has been finalized for 1991.
5. Government has: (a) adopted regulations sat  Ory to IDA for liceing new
banks; and (b) implemented procedures sadsfactory to IDA for the assment and
approva of applications for banklug licenses submd to Banoo de Moambique.



36
State Enterprises
6. Satisfactory progress has been achieved In the implementation of the
Government's privation program agreed with IDA in accordance with the terms
and targets set forth in the program.1i
Lsc Polides
7. Prepare a 1992-4 three-year investmen plan and fiancial plan satisfactory to
IDA, and increase its budgetary allocations from domestic sources from 1992 to
1993 by at least: 1 percent for education, 1.5 percent for agriculture, and
4.5 percent for health in real tems.
8. Prepare a report on the distrbution of land and transfer of land rights to
smallholders and private enterpises through September 30, 1992.
Project amplementtion aud Accounting
9. Complete a progress report on the implementation of the Financial Management
Action Plan agreed with IDA.
D. IECM and
108.  Thls opeatdon seeks to improve the efficiency of govement operations, establish a
more efficient growth process, and reduce poverty. The first objective would be achieved by
reducing Government's direct interventions in economic activities and project Implementation.
Technical assistance would be provided to help the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance
refocus their roles on strategic issues and macroeconomic management. While the capacity of
the Central Bank to manage exchange rate and credi polices would be enhanced, its
involvement in the investment process for projects financed by external aid would be reduced
and assumed instead by sectoral ministries. Underlying this transfer of functions would be
improved budgetng and monitoring of budgetary expenditures by the Ministry of Finance as
well as strengthening of CNP's capacity to evaluate sectoral strategies, prioritize investment
projects and formulate policies related to poverty and food security.
109. The second key objective is the establishment of efficient and sustainable economic
growth. Unlike the period 1986-89, when increased fiscal expenditures and extemal inflows
I The privato program includes the following steps for at least five enterpises: prepaton of
financial _     valuaton of enterprises; preparatim of company dosiers; advetisement in
ewsp ; evaluatia  of invests' proposals; negotiation and approval by Govement.
Safatoy progess would mean ha VTR  has prepawd terns of refereno for technal
ass_ane and at, on tho bask the Government, throuh UTRE, has selected and constcted
oasuduatw' serves for preparkg he following _easws for at last five enterpdasea to be
pdvaie   (I) af the ownership of the eaterpdse (/) vle te assets of te enteupifes as
goin  conAcn  (HQ reemmnd he most appropdate mtod of sale; and (1v)prepare
fs'dosieforsae.



37
were the main factors behind the temporary acceleration of growth, the ERC would help
establish a financially viable pattern of economic development based on the development of
private sector activities and exports. Reducing administrative interventions in the setting of
prices, developing commercial banking services through a more open banking sector, as well
as establishing a market-based system for allocating foreign exchange are the best guarantees
for dynamic entrepreneurial activity. With Its major thrust on establishing a transparent
process for privatization, the program would help Mozambique attract the domestic and foreign
investment needed to revitalize Its industrial and agricultural sectors, thereby creating
productive employment opportunities that would be sustainable in the longer-tem. Moreover,
the reform of government agricultural marketing policies and the enlarged role of the private
sector in agriculture in conjunction with enhanced support services to small farmers would help
increase agricultural growth. Furthermore, the redeployment of public expenditures, by
increasing the human capital of the poor would facilitate the effective participation of the poor
in the economic recovery, thereby enhancing the prospect for faster economic growth.
110. The main risks to successful implementation of the program stem from three key
factors: the changing political environment, the weak local implementation capacity and the
uncertain security situation in the country. Ihe first factor resulting from the introduction of a
multi-party system and the process of negotiations with RENAMO will increase the number of
actors in the decision process. As a consequence, there may be a far greater need for
consultation and consensus building within the Government in order to achieve major policy
reforms, which could make implementation more difficult. This risk has been incorporaed
into the adjustment program as most of the key measures concerning privatization, trade
reform and financial sector reform have already been put in place as part of the adjustment
program.
1 1.  The weak local implementation capacity could jeopardize the timely implementation of
agreed measures, thereby delaying the availability of exal financial support. However, this
risk should be assessed against Government's strong commitment to the program embodied In
its acceleration of exchange rate, trade and privatiaton reform efforts. Moreover, the program
includes provision for techoical assistance in critical areas as well as for a comprehensive civil
service reform (including pay and benefits revisions) with support from the Bank and other
donors which should help retain qualified personnel in key Government poitions.
Furthermore, the adjustment program by reducing the direct intervention of the Goverment
will also alleviate the implementation constraint. As senior management within the central
ministries will be gradually relieved of the day-to-day management of external aid, credit and
investment projects, the Government's capacity to address strategic issues will in fact be
increased.
112.  The third fictor-the uncertain security situadon-could reduce the beneficial imac of
the policy measures particularly in rural areas. Such worsening, however, appears unlikely
given the concerted efforts being made by Government to reach a peace agreement with
RENAMO. It should be noted that the macroeconomic framework underlying the program
does not assume that substant  progress towards peace would be achieved in the immediate
term. However, following recent agreement with RENAMO on an agenda, which Improves
the prospect for peace, the Government is preparing a demobilization package. The
implication for budgetary expenditures would be reviewed during the forthcoming PFP mission
in June/July 1992 to ensure that a sound macroeconomic famework is maintained.



38
PART IV: lUPATION
113. I am satisfled that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association. I recommend that the Executive Direcors approve the IDA credit.
Lewis Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1992
Attahdmets



39                                 AS=  1
IN, U.t;ICA oW M0oAMSIGUO
MIN ITgRIO DAB FINAN9AS
GABINETE DO MINISTRO
Apr11 30, 1992
Mr. Lewis T. Preston,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C., 20433,
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Dear Mr. Preston,
Re: Letter of Development Policy
1.    The purpose of this letter is to inform you of the progres made In implmenting the
adjustm    program outlined in the 1991-93 Policy Framework Paper and to outline the
additional measures we will take to strengthen the adjustment progam   The Govenment
requests from the Iternational Devwopment Ascton (IDA) consideration of an Economic
Recovery Creit (ERC) of US$180 million to support this neo  phase of our Economic and
Socia Rehabilation Program (ESRP).
2.    The aim of the Mhzambican Govarme in sutgtning the ESRP is to achie  and
sustain higher economic growth and to alleviae povety. Pollowing five years of economic
rehabiliatio  and with a prospectve improvement in the secrity suation, Mozambique is
entering a cr     stage in the adjustmen process that enils expanding trade libealization and
establishing a relativel  large market-based foreigl  exchange alocation mchaism,
resuctg and prtzng a large number of stat enteris, Implementing complement
reform  In the fiacia sector, and rationalizing budgetary expendites. The Gove n
intds to promote sustainable economic growth and poverty slleviation by revtlizig the
busis envirOnMet, emnaing the efctive participadon of the poor in the recowry proes
and by redeploying public expedues towards the social sectoe   end in support of small
holder agrltue.
3.    During the first half of the 1980s, the MoMican economy experienced a marked and
sustained decline in outut, increadng economic distordons and finnial imbance.    s
were the consequenc of adverse extmnal developments, widespread hsecurit  in rura ares
and economic policies that proved inappropriate. Between 1980 and 1986, onrall produto
fell by about 30 percent, while exports and Imports declined by 75 and 30 percent respeciy.
Extn  imbalances, aggravted by an incasingliy ovavaued exhgo  rate, led to substatl



40                                 ANNZ I
arears in external debt service. Interally, due to large fiscal deficits and unconstrained bank
financing of enterprlse losses, the money stock tripled despite shrinking output.
Adminrative controls on prices and allocation proved iimcal to the efficient allocation of
resour. As shortages increased, barter, Inflation and paralel markets for goods and foreig
exchangp became widespread. By 1986 It became dear that far-readhing economic policy
measre were required to sdmulate a significant economic tmaround.
4.    In January 1987, therefore, the Mozambique Goverment launched the ESRP, a
comprehensive reform program aimed at restoring a minimum level of per capita consumption,
putting in place the basis for sustnable growth in the long term, and re-establishing orderly
financial relationships with trading parters and creditors. During the past five years our
Government has been strongly committed to the ESRP framework and can poin to a number of
import  accomplishments.   ese include: major real devaluation of the exchange rate;
substtal increases In agricultural commodity prices to near border prices; implemention of
a major tax reform; near-eliminaon of monetary financing of the budget; improvements in the
composition of public ivemet; rapid progress in elmnatg stae enterprise subsidies; and,
privatizaton of about 120 smal and medium enterpris.  In addition, a major new
resheduling of debt was concluded with the Paris Club in June 1990, debt cancelladon
agreeme  have been reached with a number of western donors and effirts are underway to
renegotite debt owed to Easter  European counries and the former Soviet Union on
concessiona tenns. These actions have resulted in a revers of past economic decline, wih
GDP rising at an average anmn  rate of 4.1 percent from 1987 to 1990, despite ongoing
securiy problems.
S.    While macroeconomic stabilization continues to be a primary objective, the basic
medium- to long-tem objective remains the establismt of a susinable growth path to
overcome the extrem  poverty ha afflicts more than three qurers of the population. One of
the priary reuirement in order to achieve this goal remains the fahment restucturing of
the economy and the creation of an economic environment in which compeive and efficient
production may be sdmulad, with the scarce economic resources available allocated to their
optim  use through a greater emphas on the role of market structures. Complementay to
this objective is the redeployment of budgety exenditures to provide the necesary economic
and socia infsucture for supportig the recovery of production and trade and increasing the
participation of the poor (and of the population displaced or directly affected by the insecurity)
to the recovery proces. In addition, the long-term objective of achieving both iternal and
trnal finaniW balce remains a priority, albeit one that mst be pursued in the context of
6.    In general terms, the rate  of the ESRP diected at the achievement of sustained
economic growh rests on thee elements:
connu0ing the establishment of an appropriate business eroment. More precisely,
the strategy focuses on ehancing private sector-based growth through
restrcutuig/privazin large ste enterprises; establishing a subsil market-based
mechism for allocating foreign excg; developing basic commercial banig
services; and hnreasing export Icentives;



41                                 ANNEX I
* redeploying public expenditures to increase the human capital and incomes/output of
the poor through improved social services and support for smallholder agricultua
development; in addition, targeted income tramsfers would be provided to the poor in
selected urban areas; and
*  rehabilitating frther the economic and socW inffastructure, particularly in the rural
areas.
7.    Special programs have been developed by the Government in several spheres within the
basic ESRP famework. These include initiatives with respect to the reduction and alleviation
of poverty, capacity building, public sector pay and employment, and more recenly a
Demobilization Program for the Armed forces. The Government is, above all, concerned to
maintain an integrated and coherent approach to its development program. In this respect, the
Government intends to manage all these initiatives within the planning and prioritization
process for public expenditures. Increased focus is, therefore, being placed on stregthening
Government capacity to manage strategic macro-economic issues. In addition, planned
reallocation of functions across public sector agencies with a view to focusing Goverment's
role on strategic economic management rather than direct adminive control of economic
activity wil help address problems of limited institutiona capacity.
8.    Since the inception of the ESRP in 1987, the implementation of the adjustment
program has been supported by large capital exteral inflows reflected in substantial current
account deficits of the balance of payments. However, this disequilibrium was identfied as
essentdal to the restoration of growth and macroeconomic balance over the medium- to long-
term. Since 1989, Mozambique's exports have increased rapidly and it is now anticipated that
the projected higher economic growth would lead to sustained increase in exports resulting
from the improved business environment and export incentives which will attract direct foreign
investment In mining, light industry, tourism and agricutture. This will help reduce debt
service rados and the country's dependence on externat aid.
9.    Within this strategy, the Governmuent will continue to exercise tight monetary and
fsa policy, consistent with reduction of inflation and the strengthening of both the internal
and external accounts. Having virtualy eliminated net domestic bank finaning of the budget
in 1990, the Government is now anticipating that it will effect substantal repayments to the
banking system of about 2 percent of GDP in 1992 and 1993. This will facilitate the maximum
possible flow of credit to the reviving enterprise sector, compatible with the overatl need to
stabilize further Inflationary pressures.
Pagees to Enhanee lwate SetMsed GMth
10. A key area of emphasis during the coming phase of the ESRP is the establishment of
an appropriate business environment which will enhance private sector-based growth. More
specifically, Govermnent's strategy is focused on removing istiional bottlenecks which
inhibit reallocation of resources to private sector activities with growth potential, providing the
necessary economic and financIal inrastructure to support the recovery of production and
trade, and improving furfther financal incentives. These goals are to be achieved by:
(I establishing a relatively large market-based mechanism for foreign exchmge allocation;
(i) improving price and export incentives; (iII) developing basic commercial banking services;



42                                 ANNEI
and (tv) privatization of sae enterprises. Planned policies and actions in each of these areas
are described below.
11.   PoreisB Ebchange Management.  Administrative allocation has dominated the
allocation of foreign exchange during the first four years of the ESRP. Several factors made
this inevitable: firstly, the severe overvaluation of the exchange rate implied that the demand
and supply of foreign exchange would be balanced through quantitative restrictions rather than
through the price of foreign exchange and the level of tariff rates; secondly, the huge
dependence on tied extemal assistance did not allow for the creation of a unified market for
foreign exchange.
12.   Since 1990, however, Mozambique has made substantial progress in moving towards
establishing a market-clearing exchange rate and mechanism for allocating foreign exchange.
Between end-l990 and March 1992, the premium of the secondary market exchange rate over
the official exchange rate fell from about 80 percent to 5 percent by March 1992 wih the resut
that the official exchange rate is now at a level broadly consistent with the establishment of a
market-based allocation mechanism.
13.   Over al- ut the same period, steps were also taken to reduce administrative allocation
of foreign exchange, with a view to increasing efficiency and allowing for better access by
private small and medium-sized firms yiS a yiA the larger state enteprises. Initial steps taken
included the creation of a System for the Non-Administrative Allocation of Foreign Exchange
(SNAAD) in late 1989 and the establishment of a secondary market for foreign exchange in
late 1990. The range of products eligible for fimncing under the SNAAD was initially
resicted to three product groups and subsequently enlarged to include two more product
categories in mid-1990. In July 1991, our Government decided to further expand the SNAAD
to cover most of the raw materias and spare parts for the industial sector. The secondary
market was also expanded in July 1991 to increase the funds available to that market for
financing imports. However, both the SNAAD and the secondary market remained small,
providing ficing for about 4 percent of merchandise imports in 1991.
14. In total, there were about five different windows for foreign exchange in 1991: the
freign exchange fund (Fundo Cambial) of the Central Bank, the secondary market, the import
entitlement scheme for exporters, the SNAAD, and other import support programs managed by
the MinLy of Commerce. Both the degree of administrative intervention and the procedures
required by donor for procurement varied substantily across windows. As a resut, the cost
of foreign exchange borne by enterprises varied significantly across windows, thus inducing
frms to purchase imports through the least inexpensive windows.
15. As the shortcomings of this system for creating a stable environment for private sector-
based growth have become increasingly apparent, our Government has decided to reduce the
fragmeotation of the foreign exchange market and establish a revised, consolidated market for
the allocation of foreign exchange. To achieve this, the Government will merge all exports
earnings and untied import support funds with the secondary market for foreign exchange in
mid-1992. Under this new system, Banco de Mogambique will sell foreign exchange to banks,
which will enable banks to open leters of credit. To faitate the unification of untied import
mport funds and the secondary market, the list of imports eligible for financig by untied
Import support fdsld will be sub ally enlaged by mid-1992. Instead of only a small list
of products being eligible for untied aid, all imports would be eligible for financing by untied



43                                 ANNEXI
import support funds with the exception of a small negative list consisting of items usually
excluded from IDA financing and luxury goods. Furthermore, import procedures will be
harmonized between untied Import support funds and the secondary market.  Normal
commercial practices of the private sector (.e. three pro-forma invoices from different
suppliers from at least two different countries) would apply to imports financed by ERC funds
for imports up to USD 500,000. The rules and regulations applying to the revised
consolidated market for foreign exchange were prepared in April 1992.
16.   The decision to put all earnings from exports of goods and services Into the enlarged
secondary market would allow for a trly market-determined exchange rate, which would
provide the basis for allocating funds-thereby virtly eliminating E  =  administrative
involvement in foreign exchange allocation decisions within that market. More specifically,
import procedures for imports have been simplified and liberalized: the import license (issued
by the Ministry of Commerce) was abolished in September 1991 and replaced by a registration
form (for statistical purpose, price and quality verification by SGS and opening of letters of
credit). Continued implementation of the recently-introduced pre-shipment inspection for all
goods valued at USD 5,000 and above will help ensure the price and quality of goods
imported. As a means of improving the use of external aid, commercial banks were given
access to foreign exchange through the Banco de Mo9ambique for foreign transactions,
including the opening of letters of credit as of April 1992.
17.   In those Instances where administraive controls are required by donors (as in the case
of tied aid) foreign exchange would continue to be adminisratively managed. Currently, the
adminitrative allocation of aid imposes significant costs to enterprises which exceed those
incurred when foreign exchange is allocated through market mechanisms. Unless these costs
differences are substantially reduced, firms would contine to face different effective prices for
foreign exchange, thus precluding the unification of exchange rates in the market-based and the
administratively-allocated system. The Government is, therefore, urging donors to support the
enlarged secondary market, with the aim of creating a single market for foreign exchange in
the medium- to longer-term.
18. In parallel with the above-described changes, our Government plans to introduce
further improvements in the administration/utilization of foreign exchange. Thus far, virtually
all balance of payments fimds deriving from donor sources have been managed by GCPI
(Office for the Coordiation of Import Programs) under the Ministry of Commerce, which
provided procurement support to recipients.  However, with the move away from
administatve allocation implied by the enlarged secondary market, we intend to transfer the
management of untied balance of payments funds from GCPI to the Foreign Exchange
Department of the Banco de Mopmbique . To ensure appropriate recording of funds use, we
have already recruited technical assistance to assess the needs of the Foreign Exchange
Department of Banco de Mogambique for establishing and maiining an adequate system of
aconting and docu ion. Following that assessment, we intend to contract e nal
consultant services by end-1992 to improve accounting and reporting procedures, provide
direct management support and on the job tangt . A progress report on the implementation
of a Financial Management Action Plan agreed with IDA will be completed by end-1992.
Moreover to accelerate the disbursement of funds tied to specific investment projects, the
Govem        is reexaming procedures applying to the approval of contracts rlated to
investm    projects, with a view to decentralizing contra  decisions to sectoral ministries.
Agreed standard contracts for civil works, consultants and service contracts will be



44                                  ANNEX I
implemented by June 1992. Although the principle of decentralization of financial management
of projects is accepted, we feel that an action plan to implement it will be necessary. To that
effect, the Government will take the necessary steps to implement such action plan by end-
1992.
19.   Cmprxvemnt In Price and Egot  Incentives.  The expansion of the secondary
market wil facilitate the development of export-oriented activities by ensuring automatic access
to foreign exchange and reducing administrative procedures. This policy measure builds on
earlier initiatives to facilitate export growth. Exporters' access to foreign exchange was
iniilly facilitated by the export retention scheme introduced in 1984. This scheme allowed
exporters to use part of their export earnings to purchase imports. However, import
entitlements had to be negotiated annually, which entailed cumbersome administrative
procedures. In July 1991, Government decided to increase incentives for non-traditional
exports by alowing exporters of these products to sell all their foreign exchange through the
secondary market. With the enlargement of the secondary market in April 1992, traditional
exporters are entitled to sell all their export earnings at the secondary market exchange rate.
20.   In order to improve export incentives, the Government has reduced the taxation of
exports. In October 1991, the export tax-previously ranging from 3.5 percent to
12.5 percent-was reduced to 0.5 percent. Furthermore, a review of export policies will be
carried out in 1992.
21.   As a means of improving price incentives in agriculture, the Government will continue
tD decontrol agricultural commodity prices and improve price incentives to farmers. At the
producer level, fixed prices have already been decontrolled, or replaced by floor prices to
avoid the risk of shap price declines (related to the lack of sufficient numbers of traders or to
the impact of free food distribution under the Emergency Program). Ihe Government plans to
continue to adjust the floor prices of cotton and cashew in line with the evolution of border
prices. A methodology for determining their floor prices is being developed and will be
implemented by end-1992. Given that confusion still exists in rural areas between the floor
and fixed price concepts, the Government intends to widely disseminate information on the
appropriate functioning of the floor price system using both official channels and the mass
media.
22.   In addition to continued pricing reform, efforts are underway to determine ways of
further sftimulating activity by private traders in rural areas. In June 1991, Government issued
a decree allowing for the transportation and sale of commodities across provinces. A key
action to be taken by July 1992 is the easing of licensing requirements which are applicable to
private trads at present, in order to facilitate increased trade and the transmission of price
incentives throughout rural areas. To that effect, registration procedures applying to rural
private traders for agricultural marketing will be abolished. At the same time Government is
curreny reviewing the role of AGRICOM, the state-owned marketing agency, with the
objective of achieving equal treatment to all buyers and traders.
23.   With regard to price incentives for industry, the Government has decided to eliminate
the system of "conditioned prices" (ex-post mark-up control) for a significant number of
industril products by end-1992, in line with the expected improvement in competitive
conditions resulting from the enlargement of the secondary market and from privatizaton
(descrbed below).



45                                 ANNEX I
24.   Finandial Sector Reform.  The Government intends to develop the commercial
banking sector so as to sustain development In all sectors of the economy. Its short- to
medium-term objectives are to: (i) separate the Bank of Mozambique into a central and a
commercial bank; (ii) strengthen the central bank's functions; (iii) restructure existing state-
owned banks; (iv) increase competition within the banking sector; and (v) develop indirect
methods of monetary policy.
25.   The Government has been working towards the separation of the Banco de
Mogambique into a central bank-Banco de Mogambique-and a commercial bank (Banco
Comercial de Mogambique). In December 1991, we passed a central banking law which
outlines the relationship between the Government and Banco de Mopambique as well as with
other financial institutions operating in the economy. In early 1992, Banco de Mocambique
and Banco Comercial de Mocambique were established as separate entities with independent
boards of directors. The separation of accounts will be fully completed and the balance-sheet
for BM will be finalized by end-1992.
26.   The Government intends to give priority to the strengthening of Banco de
Mogambique's capacity to: (a) conduct monetary policy; (b) regulate and supervise other
banking institutions; and (c) manage al foreign exchange transactions. As capacity building is
an important objective for our Government, technical assistance will play an importat role in
the training of local staff. To support the central bank in this measure, the Government is
seeking training for local staff as well as external technical assistnce related to monetary
policy, banking supervision and regulation; foreign exchange management; accounting and
auditing; statistics and legal issues. An on-going dialogue with IDA, bilateral donors (notably
the Governments of France, Portugal and Sweden), as well as the International Monetary
Fund, has helped provide some of the required technical experts, or will help provide them in
the near future. In line with the concentration of institutional responsibilities related to import
support funds within Banco de Mopambique, the Government has secured external assistnce to
ensure appropriate accounting of donor aid. Given the importance of generating timely
information for credit and monetary policy, Banco de Mocambique will commence regular
publication of unaudited central bank accounts by end-1992. Starting in 1993, the accounts of
Banco de Mogambique for 1993 wil be externally audited on an anal basis.
27.   The Govermnent intends to contue with the restructuring of state-owned bans (BPD
and BCM) by giving priority to the reconciliation of accounts, the write-off of bad debt, and
the adequate provisioning for bad or doubtful debt. To that effect, the Governm  wil
prepare an action plan to restructure BCM by end-1992. The Government is already
addressing key issues of non-performing loans. Following an initi agreement entered in 1987
with Banco de Mogambique and BPD, the Government has assumed the pre-1987 stock of non-
performing loans. Post-1987 loans will, however, be assumed by banks.
28.   An important element for the development of commercial banking services is increaed
competition. A general banking law providing for the creation of new banks and financia
institutions, and a law eliminating the state's monopoly concerning insurance business were
approved in December 1991. We intend to complement the new legal framework with
additional important banking regulations. In order to smooth the entry of banking institltions,
the regulations for licensing of new banks and the procedures for the assessment and approval
of applications for bank licenses submitted to Banco de Mogambique were prepared in draft;



46                                  AN=  I
they will be finaized and disseminated by end-1992. Meanwhile, there will be continued
efforts to strengthen the supervision department, established in November 1991, at the Central
Bank to ensure that new and existing baniks are adequately regulated and supervised.
29.   So as to ensre that competition is effective between all banking institutions, we intend
that, with the creation of BCM in April 1992, all banks will operate with the same range of
services and the same access to foreign exchange at the Central Bank. In particular, the setting
of credit ceilings by banks was revised to give a significantly higher weight to the mobilization
of deposits (specifically term deposits).
30.   In order to make banks more commercially oriented and increase banks' incentives to
lend to high priority sectors, we have eliminated differences in lending rates among sectors in
April 1992, and in 1993 we intend to set a band within which lending rates should be
determined by banks. In the newly envisaged, and more liberalized financial environment,
commercial banks will be allowed to make their own commercial assessment of risk and return
on all lending activities and assign individual interest rates by borrower, within the range set
by the Central Bank at positive real interest rates.
31.   Ehtergis Restructurn/rstfaton. As enterprise reform is a key condition for
injecting dynamism in the economy, the Government has decided to accelerate the
privatizationlrestructring of state enterprises. About 120 small- and medium-scale entetprises
have already been privatized since 1987. Having caried out this initial phase relatively
smoothly, we now plan to introduce a more comprehensive program for the
restructunngprivatzation of the larger enterprises (with more dt   300 employees). To this
end, our Government has enacted several laws in August 1991 to provide the legal basis for
privaization. The most significant of these laws provides for the restructuring, sale and
liquidation of state owned enterprises and describes the various methods for the conversions-
including public offerings, direct negodation/restrcted bidding, and transfer to manager and
workers.
32.   As part of the process of preparing enteprises for sale, Goverment is working tD
resolve key issues that may slow down the privation process. In particular, property claims
on assets earmarked for privaization are being addressed through the August 1991
privatization law which established procedures for clarifying ownership status and regularizing
any ouanding legal issues.
33.   Furthermore, in end-1991 the Government has adopted a formal policy statement that
defines the Govenmient's objectives, strategy and scope of privatization, to serve as the basis
framework for the program. As a wide range of institutions are involved in the privatization
program, the Goverment has nomined a high level Iner-Minista   Committee for
Enterprise R -estucturing (CIR) to act as the cental agency responsible for management and
Implementation of the program. To avoid a dombeme and bureaucratic process, it was
decided that the Prime Mister who chais CIRE, will have fil authority In making decisions
related to prvatzaion, while the Enterprise Restructuring Unit (UTRE)-set up to manage the
IIDA financed Industrial Enteise Restmchuring Project (PRE)-wil1 serve as the secretaiat
of CIRE. UTRE has been charged with the responsibility of preparing the statea, guidelines
and criteria for the systematic selection and preparation of larger enterprises for privatization.
Broad operating policies and procedures have been approved by Government. They were



47                                 ANNEX I
published in November 1991. To facilitate the privatization process, the Government inte
to utlize funds available under the technical assistance component of the ERC.
34.   The Government has already prepared a list of about 25 enterprises that wIll be
restructured/privatized over the medium-term. The Government has already identifed the first
five enterprises to be privatized and has now initiated the Implementation of an action plan to
prepare them for sale. A similar plan will be prepared for the following year. The action
plans include a timetable for the steps required for privatizing the selected enterprises. These
steps include the preparation of financial statements and audited account; the valuation of the
assets of the enterprise as going concern; the preparation of company dossiers with
recommendation on the most suitable privatizatdon option; advertisement in local and
international newspapers; evaluation of investors' proposals; negotdation and approval by
Government. To achieve these objectives, UTRE will pre'are terms of reference, and on that
basis, select and contract consultant services for clarifying firms' ownership, valuing the assets
of firms as going concerns, recommending the most appropriate method of sale, and preparing
dossiers for the sale of enterprises. The Governnent expects that the action plan concerning at
least five enterprises will be implemented through the evaluations of investors' proposals by
mid-1993.
35.   Nevertheless, as there are about 250 nationally-registered state or  intervenedu
enterprises in Mozambique, the privatization/restructuring process will inevitably take a
number of years to carry out, and some enterprises intended for eventual privadzation will
continue to be publicly managed for an interim period. For these enteprises, Government
plans to increase manageria authority and accountability, encourage use of management
cntracts with the prvate sector, and systematically review other steps which could enhance
the efficiency with which they are run. Overall, budgetary subsidies to state enterprises wil
be limited to 1.5 percent of GDP, and a moratorium on the creation of new state enterprises (as
defined by Decree 2/81) will remain in force.
36.   In addition, a few enterprises, mainly those related to the provision of basic population
needs (e.g., public utilities, emergency-related food distribution and pharmaceuticals
procurement) are expected to remain within the public sector. To ensure efficient operation of
these entprises, a new law has been passed in August 1991 which provides for the creation of
independent boards of directors, auditing of accounts and transformation of public udlities into
limited liability companies. An action plan for transforming public udlities into
limited-liabilities will be formulated and the terms of reference for technical assistance that
could be financed under the ERC credit wfll be prepared by end-1992.
Public lditure Managment and Povygt Rteduction
37. In view of the challenges facing our Government in the current transition to peac, our
Govermnent is, above all, concerned to maintain an inWated and coherent approach in its
development program. To achieve this, Goverme  is giving a central role to the public
expendtme progrm. In 1990, the Government made considerable progress toward Improving
fis   management in the context of planning, budgeting and monitoring. Most importantly,
the 1990-92 Three-Year Investment Plan and Financial Plan were prepared. In 1991, the
second Three-Year Investment Plan and Financial Plan were finalized, covering the 1991-93
period. In 1992 and 1993, the Government will contiue to update the Thre-Year rlling
lnvestment and Financial Plans.



48                                  ANEI
38.   With respect to Government expendiures, several broad principles have been
etablished to guide allocation decisions. Firstly, the Government will continue to establisb the
budget as the main Instrument for rationalizing goverment expendiures. In this regard, the
Government will ensure that quasi-fiscal expenditures be recorded in the govenment budget
and that all credit activities be appropriately recorded in the balance sheet of Banco de
Mogambique. Specific acdons expected to futer this objective in 1992 include: the Ministry
of Finance ceased exnding credit to enterprises (etras do Tesouro)-which allowed for the
dderred payment of counterpart funds to the budget; temporary financing of the budgetary
deficit, provided by Banco de Mogambique to the Ministry of Finance, will be remuneraed;
and external debt will be reallocated between Banco de Mogambique and the Ministry of
Finance.
39.   Secondly, the Goverment is seeking to develop a greater emphasis on sectoral
programs rather than on a project-based approach, and is therefore seking to buid sectoral
progams that support the sectoral sategies and prioritles of the ESRP. In pardcular, core
expenditure programs are being identified within the context of a review of public expenditues
for priority sectors, including agriculure, education, health, roads and water. In view of the
fact that a major proportion of invmestment is enaally financed through donor assistance,
Government is seeking the active participation of donors in the reorientation of the expenditre
pr ogrm.
40.   A third objective for Govement is to mainhin institutional capacity for effectively
programming and monitring public expenditures and for implementing priority programs. in
1990 Government carried out a remiew of pay and employment policies within the civil service
with IDA, and in Apdl 1991, a comprehensive reform of civil servants salaries and job
clamification was initiated to improve incentives and avoid further drain of skilled civi
sevant. Salary supplements, which previously were paid in foreign exchange from bilateral
asistance, were included in base salaries.  These changes represeted a significant step
towards establishitj a single saly scale within the civil service, with a relatvely smaller
number of grades. In addition, the reforms achieved a necessary increase in the differena
between the saaries of the managerial and technical staff and those of the lower grades. In
line with the recommendations of the 1991 Public Pay and Employment Report, we are
devising a transparent system for augment  salaries and benefits of key civil servants as a
means of keeping them in their positions and improving their motivation. To that effect, In
1992 a plan was prepared for increasing furlher financia incenives to high-level civil seats
with donors external financing.
41.   In addition to improving genera public expendture management, another emphasis of
our ESRP program is to redeploy public expenditures in a manner consiste  with achiving
substntal poverty alleviation.  This reflects our Govment's conviction tha progress
towards economic recovery requires the effective lntegration of the poor-who, even by
conservadve standards, constte over half of the popuation-into the development process.
Wtn Gove           there is now considerable agreement about a single comprehensive
strategy for addressing poverty in Mozambique with three main elements:  (a) expanig
employment and income-generating opporunities for the poor; (b) improving coverage and
quality of basic socia services in order to increase producdvity and build up hulman capital, the
p         asset of the poor; and (c) establishing a "safety-net! to assist those households with
especily low incomes or large numbers of depdents. By helping to maintain human capital



49                                 ANNEX I
during a period of economic transition, the *safety net would not only assist needy families
but "-o contribute to long term development.
42.   To fiuther the above strategy, Government intends to carry out appropriate
redeployment of public expenditures towards health, education, agriculture and poverty. Ihe
objective is to ensure that core expenditures are mahiained for priority sectors during the
current transitional period. Implementation of such a program would help reverse the decline
in the coverage of health and education services and, together with reforms in rural marketing
and trade, redress past neglect of the smallholder sector in agriculture. Therefore, Government
wil:
* increase budgetary allocations from domestic sources for education, agriculture and
health by a minimum of 1 percent, 1.5 percent and 4.5 percent respectively per
annum in real terms during 1992 and 1993;
* improve the availability of non-wage inputs needed to enhance the quality of
services for education and health through increasing (i) 1992 non-wage
expenditures per primary and secondary schools by 1.5 percent in real terms; and
(ii) 1992 and 1993 expenditures on drugs and medical supplies to at least USD 0.9
and USD 1.0 respectively per capita; and
e  improve health system coverage and efficiency ftrough: (a) permitting NGOs and
private entities to provide health services; (b) preparation of an inventory of donor
supported health activities; (c) rationalization of the structure of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and the establishment of procedures for auditing MOH; and
(d) preparion of a manpower development plan, including budgetary implications.
43.   Another important fiscal area which we intend to tacke concerns the collection of
cnterpart fnds generated by Import support and commodity aid programs. Local currency
resources available to the budget have been limited by the undercollection of counterpart finds
generated through import support and sale of commodity aid. Increased efforts are needed to
enhance the collection and accounting of counterpart funds. To further this objective: (a) the
payment of counterpart funds corresponding to import support programs would be better
monitored as a result of the reform of the foreign exchange allocation and the technical
assistance that would be provided to the Central Bank; and (b) a unified reporting systm for
counterpart funds would be developed. Agreement with donors is also being sought on the use
of these funds so as to provide the Government with greater flexibility on expenditure
decisions. In particular, Government is proposing to donors that the counterpart funds
geneated from extemal assistance be directed to financing the local currency costs of
budgetary expenditures of high priority.
44.    Finally, to help increase household food security, Government intends to support
specific measures to increase the earning potential of smallholders and provide income
transfers targeted to the poorest households in selected urban areas. In parallel with the
planned privatzation of nearly all state farms, Government will prepare a progress report on
land distribution and transfer of land rights to smallholders and private enterprises through
September 30, 1992. As the importance of the National Food Distribution System "NSA" for
food security has decreased substantially, Government intends to eliminate the NSA by July
1993. Instead, Government will continme to develop a recentiy-established targeted income



SO                                  ANN13XI
twsfer schemes in Maputo and other urban areas for vulnerable urban households with no
significat earning potential. The implementation of the income transfer schemes in Maputo
and other selected urban areas will be reviewed in early 1993. Overall, the income transfer
sbemes would amount to 2.5 percent of budgetary expenditr  in 1992. An instittional
focal point for food seut  policy formuation and coordination of sectoral activities would
also be established In order to help cootexisting poverty initiatives related to ensuarig
household food security.
45. In view of the economic adjustment measures that hve already been initiated and those
that are ecpected to be implemented in the near fitu, as discussed above, the Government
requests your fvorable consideraion of the Economic Recovery Credit. It is our intention to
expedite the reform process in a manmer and pace which are technically and adminisively
feasible and consitent with our oveal developmen goals.
Yours sincerely,
Eneas da Conceigao Comiche
Mfinister of Finance



lit  I      ~~I. II1 [1Fr 
Ii          1{ tjl  iiiii ]i
4.,       'B1 ''    '' l
Ii 3   ii   1 lliil§1 
itS



ECONOMIC RECVE_RY CREDIT (SRO
POUCY AREAS                 OBJECTIVES              ACTONS ALRADY TAIN                                         TO BE DIPEMD
B. Im £a          P Rce  xaon oexpos                 Expoa  allowed to sell 100% of tidr
expont erig ftotg th seonday madet
Expo taxes w t r      fom 3.S%-12.S%
toO.5%(Ocber 1991).
The Inshte for Export Promo    wasceated    Re w xporlis a 1992.
in 1991.
Ensuetapricci esare                Decretoallowite-provincial twas             Abolish rgstro prcdures applin to ra privat
ted  to ural reas by freing        issuediIntid-191.                           tae  (by July 192).
dosic trade, acDlatg te
purcae Ofagriculturalproducts at   Fxdpdr wereitrfreedorreplaedby               ublicize sesally te diffence betwee  he
vinimum pric, and viwing the       minimum  -  for agicutal prduct             preiou   stm of fixed pic  and thee urren sysem
rol of AGRICOM.                                                                of mininmm pdces (August 1992)
A study of the role of AGIICOM has been
ininiate
Methodology for setting foor prsofeashew    Apply mehodoly to faory-gte and fm-t pices
and coton on he bais of border prices is    of cashew and coton (e-1992).             of
beingdeveloped                              floor prices to be ktunderp rview. (IM-93).
Inreapseincntivus for              Exanteprecontmblser lacedpbya               Abolsh sstem of    dtoedprices applg to the
indstril products                  sstem of ex post price conrols ("conditoned  Industrial sector for a signicat mnmber of products in
prie system*) for Industrial prducts       line wii th elareme of the seonday mared in
mid-1992.
C, Pevlogo a      PEdablish strong cetal bank to     Central banking law and general banking law
b-                formlate moneary policy, supevise    were apprved in Dec. 1991.
Qdori    ficial   and regulate the banking system, and
sedor.            underte all aspects of foreign     Bamn de Moaibique (BM) (central bank) and    Prepare action plan to restrure BCM (end1992).
hange management Improve flow   Banco comerial de Mopambique (BCM  wer
of information for creit and moneta    established in early 1992 as sepamre entities  Complete the spato of amcounts and finalize
policy.                            with separe ftncns.                         balance-sheet for BM for 1991.



}111'1  Iii   tIIII      g.1111
3ii .-?' 11113i 141 41 1111 1111
I".§          ti4'                     ii,.  
{[ I        I           I  'i1@ 1
[I            Ii           53~£     10



ANNEXU
-ECONOMIC R0wVRY   W-r ffiRQ
POUICY AREAS                OBJETVE                   ACTlONS ALREADY TAKEN                                       TO BE IMPEENE
Teams of crer   fot avisor to senghn
Goavern    hes h ad -     Prv_ attonPoly
Statement and the dece esdthng the
-        adddh   produes for pad Lom.
Impr pefom of publc                 Law voted in August l991 allows for the      Fomuae plan for brafrming pub         ies fnto
VenleRprsebestructhuing aion        admtav and financial autony, the                            firms. Prepae Wemnis Of r eferenc for
IoMmral           enepise that      establment ofboads ofdiecor ad the           tc      istance. (E 1992).
woud taninthe seoceation of lmitedaty companis
Budget  susidi to ste firms are liited o     Implement mao i on the creat  of new  te
less than 1.5% of GDP in 1992.               entis  (a defined by der  2/31).
IkMC D8DrUE MANAG15ME:IIAND POVZRTY XCUIO
&~AxIft           Re4alocate institational roles       Externa debt is being teallocated betwee BM  Remunerate services (tenmpoary financing of deficit)
between_ancedeMogambique(B          and gvermen budget                           pwrvi&dedby BMtoMiisyof  an1           -931.
and the Ministiyof FinMc (B4 i
bdwnincuringquasifiscal pditurM     Credit (tas de Toms) eeded by the
Mmm               wha  theMistya fFinanc ifinityofFiactoeerprisesstppedIn
P=.= ad  M4    Cnet            crea  to eteps).        1992.
B. Strengthen      uterimprotheoverall                Th Govennt prepard a Three-Year               Prepare tee-ye  iedmn pbn and    -year
prouctvit .f   smedw_ nt resour    hIsenand Financial Plan in 1990 and 1991,   f hiana p   (1992-94)             to IDA.
Godmmentog   bybettprlorlbdln                         anuddeitraf                           of
pzlpdlii          repiseurce m,and ensurlngadeqnt      Mmunrpart. lmd&
recurrt rsourcs.                                                                 Desi  and irodue hamonizd sem for the
collection of countepart fends
Reviw ovea pay and emploment    A rform of salaies and employment rctue
strture ofivl service to addrs      was Itoduced in 1991. The Govement has
isse of Inadequat alay ructue       now prepared a plan for increasing fiuther
mt IHited pyonv tc apacity to   financial incenives for h 4e   cl sevas
aMdd  -     p nip_L                 with donod eal financing



ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERCI
POUCY AREAS                  OBCICVES                 ACMIONS ALREADY TAKEN l4TO St JMLEMWTD
Tofaciaels ctive paicipain    Mistry of Agiur is carrying ou a
igan              ofthe poow in the rmcovey re         revisindfdbtieadstat of
modbm             incase prvsion of s ort              a     tu  developme
ma      ps noto  oservices to _mahodel
1992 agutalbugt fr fondsbfrom                 Waintain rate of    s for 1993
oftland.                                               do w esdat                                                  -
docati_                                                1.%inralems
To lr= wth   khm    capital oftbe    M  eucain and hat budget for ubds             Matain rt of inrease fr 1993bd
poo and off  the wsev    decie of   fromdomesticeswereInrasedby at
socal epe          in 198047,       least 1%, and 4.5% in ral tes, respcivelY.
proriy to eductio and and het                                                      1992 nwae budgtay xpeaitur  per p-     nd
To reled  s, alocate adeqae                                                        sondurykWeto i ea least 1.5%6 inreal  tem
batp rego pa            n to                                                      M1992 eenditmrs n drusV and medical sulies fr
edgwaflon-pwaicWadytoptim7ad                             _SNS 4/ to equa at least $0.9 per Capita wt foreg
exchpge provided o M IMOC to pror drg. 199
ePe ndir  to oac at SI $1.0 per capitaL
bpve   uty of basc _dcation        bGoveranm    has imd deee for bl
and delivey of mIum healt           schoo yar fr Fb. 1992. nd is prpai
suie                                pla bt achW &g _i_okmet
coiuu  ddim=              wandm _kv
Health mapowr PIan was fiaHzed in 1992 and
wedbas begrurondteeducatiompower
PI
empove heacovage byatadoptediI.
p-- RIIIINGOOsand  -   entti
to pwAde halth am



QNIC RECOVERY CREWIT(RQ
POUCY AREAS                 OJECllVES                ACTONS ALREADY TAKEN                                         TO BE BMMENTID
lmpme oxwdination of don-           Inveftyof dooranld NGOse n _ dlialth   PFlaaii lentoy of door and NOs suppodht
I ppolvdactivitiestreamline         acie has begbn                               acviies for M99244.
gsr of Haft strucdme and
bulgetWg and amounting.     Acton plan deoped and woing  ops              ReveMinistry of Health (MO) stt  and
esIwAbisIISd.                                establish p   _ocedo  for adiing MOH (92-93)
P.-Ensmbadc    InTumpd4ifi6_aladmand                   RviawofqtW     ison-n&                        stAbish a contnd and          body for poliy
food necds  Ensfion by dmdoping an                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ftorulationand oorditutinof sectoralactwiviis
-dfoWpoiortipoMid-M992)
analys of povty and food sewi
IV   t  geting of subsie In         Food subsii  are being phased out.           Rview ia    of  ed pooedme 6r icme
urban areas by Implementin targetebd   Government to eliminate food ation  hemb  transfer schLm  in Mapuo and othe  l tban
cost- effe have:Aeuvtiom           aend-1993. Criteri Crteri and ripients of    areas by ealy 1993.
income tsfr schemes have been ildc
1_b~~tobeghn on    e    leca.
Conti   wih dstribution of ste                                                   pep   press repot on land  sribution nd unsfr
kSm blmd to saMl        nd pdvab                                                 of ld d0S to m      omad ptvafe eqatdsa
p "-pea                                                                          thoughSpp_30,199.
NOIW-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N(Yf ES:
I/Pgress  Port wMl   le a  vewof t  adit tao conrning IDA prjct, preimi nak
and steps tabe to   e   aountW
2U S8_dbcWY prom mom tha UTRE has prepaed term  of refen  and tbat on that basi the wamnet tugh
UTR  Whas sdected nd c8nbacted consultantsesvie for preparng the olowig meas  fo at kast fiv entepris  to
be pivatize& M daft the ownrhp of the csprisee; (H) vu the ass  of the ntupri  as going  ;mn
QIQ rcomme d th     apprap e mod oae; and (lv) prepare flre dosser for Sle
31 nlding ertaiUNIaCAMM PHC d            p but e    dngote  tindt            ando dWSrFA C
U Nata Health SyteL



37                                       ANNEIJR
BALANCE OF PAYMEN
(In mmion of us d0a119)
1986    1987    I988    1989   190    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
TladeBaluanoe                 464    428    433    -703    -751    -737    -715    -788    454    -912
Merchandise EXPOrts           79      97     103      105     126     162     196     242      286     331
Mercha  Impor               -S43    425    -736    4         47      499    4911   -1030   41140   -1243
SeWiAes (net)                -159    -148    -12    -145   -135    -          -150    -155    -128    -98
Creds                        119     137     157      167     173     203     211     228     249      275
TrmupOd_on                  45      35       42      43      63      60      65       78      94     112
Wodze'RemitH__s             50      5s       72      71      70      56      56       56      56      s8
Oth..                       24      44       44      52      40      87      90       95      99     105
Debits                      -278    .285    -259    -312   -308    -37    -361    -383    -377    -37
1ntee                      -1W5    -148    -117    -169    -165    -181    -175    -191   -180   -171
T       _nspoWo             -34     -34     41      -38     40       -so     -52     -54     -57      59
Wodows'Re _illances        -23      -25     -25     -28     -25     -30      -31     -32     -33     -35
Inee Series                 -sO     -55     45      -47     -48     45       -49     49      -50     -s0
0th..                      -16      -23     -31     -30    -30      -52      -54     46      -58     41
Prvate Trau_rt                  0       0       78      e5      98     108     11S      121     127     133
Cur. Acount di Gan           4623    476    457    -763    -788    -783    -750    -822    -S    477
Ganfs                         213     304     377      388     448     502     531     547      56      580
Cur. Account mca. Grn        -410    -372    -280    -375    -340    -281    -219    -275    -292    -297
Long Tm Capil  lows           42       483    -125     -S5     44    -188               -82     -39     -1
Dirutlesthm                    0       0       5       3        9      22      31      36      40       42
Not lLT BorowIng             -52     43    -10        48      -93    -210    -129    -118      -79     -54
Di  "wsomwb                284     301      248     257     251     144     206      211     216     222
ReP_yments                 336     384      378     31S     344     3S4     335      329     295     276
Erroand Omisuo0 s             -26      30       32       8       7     -34       0       0        0       0
Oveal Balalce                 488     425    -373    422    -417    -503    -317    -357    -331    -309
Netforeip Asse                  6      -58     -25       3      46    -13        0      49      45      -36
OfWhionlMFraedit(Set)          0      1S      25       16      12      42      41      15      -10     -13
Not Can  o Aio  s
(nmram-+)                    482     608       0      398    -378    -19      45        0        0       0
DebtCancliati                   0       0       17      21      22      37      38      27       34      35
Debt Resheduling                0    1091      381       0     779     598     344
Posbe Debt Relief 1                                                                     399     342     310
F     ;nnoi CGap                0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0
V1 Aawmu debt rssohedmilu an Tinidad Sum&
Source Back ofMoumbiqn ad Staff Esines



S8                                    WL1EL: II
KEY MACROECNOMIC INDICATORS, 1986-1994
' '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-P U
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993    1994
Re_- . _ h Rat_s.
GDP                     2.3    5.3    5.5    5.4    1.3    0.9         3.0    5.0    5.5
GDP per capita          0.8    2.0    2.9    2.7   -1.1   -0.7    0.4    2.4    2.4
C=Mm;o*sM pt er capita  -3.3   -0.7    0.9    3.2   -2.8   -4.8   -1.9    2.4    1.5
Debt & DIeb Service
ToW DOD (US$M) 1/    3156.7 3998.0  4200.0  4401.0  4317.5  4995.0  5236.0  5465.0  S648.0
DOD I GDP               76.4  27S.9  337.7  339.3  299.7  392.0  420.9  399.7  377.7
Deb Serice (US$M)      490.2  532.2  494.9  484.4  509.0   534.7   S10.1  520.2  474.4
DeSeriSoce/xpots 2/    247.5  227.5   190.8  178.9  170.1   146.5   12S.4   110.7   88.7
Debt Service I GDP      11.7   36.7   39.8   37.3   3S.3   42.0   41.0   38.1   31.7
Ratios to GDP 31
Gross Ivestmet           9.2   24.0   33.4   35.S   38.1   42.7   41.9   39.9   38.6
pivde investment         4.1    8.0   10.8   12.0   14.0   17.9   15.5    14.8   13.6
Publc bretenut           5.1   16.0   22.6   23.S   24.1   24.8   26.4   25.1   2S.0
NatonaM Sawings         -5.9  -23.8   -19.S  -23.4  -16.6  -18.S   -18.4  -20.2  -18.7
Public Savings         -12.1   -S.2   -2.7   -2.0   -3.4   40.6    -3.6   -5.5   -2.6
Privte Savigs            6.2  -18.6  -16.7  -21.4  -13.2  -17.9  -14.8  -14.7  -16.1
OP Currmt Account
Expors (GNNS) / GDP      3.6   12.1   1S.1   1S.4   1S.9   24.3   28.2   30.3   32.0
Exprt (GONFS) (% p.a)   -1.4    8.3    4.4    8.4   10.6   31.3   10.3    13.8   11.7
1m1ors (ONES) / GDP     14.3   48.2   65.0   67.5   65.7   78.6    81.7   83.4   83.9
Imports (GMNS) (% p.a)  32.9   9.S    6.2    8.3    2.3    5.3    -1.3    7.3    S.7
Deficit (USS million) 4/    622.0  676.0  657.0  763.0  788.0  783.0  750.0  822.0   855.0
Deficit Before Grants/GDP    15.1   47.8   52.9   S8.9   54.7   61.2   60.3   60.1   57.3
Deficit aflr GrantCsGDP  9.9   26.8   22.6   29.0   23.6   21.8    17.6   20.1   19.6
Budget
Gvcement Revenues       12.9   16.2   19.9   23.4   22.2   23.9   2S.9   26.0   2S.0
GovernmentExpenditures    22.4   37.S   45.2   49.0   S1.7   51.2    57.2   56.6   S3.0
Deficit before Grants   17.6   21.3  -25.3  -25.S  -29.5  -27.3  -31.3  -30.6  -28.0
Deficitafle Chants      15.3   11.8   11.4    9.0   12.6    6.1    4.8    4.3    4.0
CPI (% growth)          32.5  163.3   50.1   42.1   49.2   3S.0   25.0    14.0   10.0
Red Exchang Rate 3/    438.S  100.0   99.0   95.0   94.0   72.4         ..
ross Reserv
(mantha imports)        1.2   2.9    3.1    3.0    3.0    3.7    3.7    4.3    4.2
1. Deft u   _nig   ddisusd
2 Def sevib bd      _    .odm
3. D)ue to         thee*zcies i do natind accounus data, estimtes on inasment and savings are didstorL The ica
ic cetios to GDP refles the impact of mYyor exchango te adjust;m   On tho extna omponent of nvesdmnt
reltive to a lss fastr nao    domestic inflation and dthrfor GDP. In addition, istment figus hiudb
a sificant proporion of rDcurr expeniures.
4. Bdfre Gants.
3. End of period (1987-100).



69                                    . A8NN  III
EXTlNAL PINANC3NO REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES
(In milion of US dom)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993        1994
IzImuUiniuiat~                  685.4   1523.0   1345.1   119.2   1         I19.8
Cuat Acount Deficit             763.0    789.0   783.1   750.0    822.2   856.6
Amotlnton                       31S.0   344.1   3S4.1   334.8    328.9   294.S
Chang in Aes (ineae-)          -398.0   377.5    119.3    64.9        0.0     0.0
Chap inRaRswves(inuuassw+)       2S.5    32.4    15.9    40.5        84.0    34S
OtiabilWity Cbanug.              11.1    -14.4    38.8       0.0     0.0    10.2
Eros and           (oautfows-    -9.0    -S.6    33.9        0.0      0.0      0.0
Totd IdwOW Emmdn                6.    721L4    710.3   807.6         0.4    19.
Disumnets from
Exisf Com__bens           ",664.4   72L4    710.3    15.0    1109      79.8
Gran-  1/                       388.0   448.4   501.7
Las                             257.0    2SI.4   144.1    114.S    9S.8    79.8
Batea 2V                       183.9    129.4    34.7    25.0       19.0    17.0
Multilatbrl                     73.     122.0   109.4    89.S    76.8    62.8
IDA                           50.3    77.1    70.2    49.5    46.8    42.8
Other                         22.8    44.9    39.2    40.0    30.0    20.0
DO Purcbaose/SAF                 16.4    '12.4     42.0    40.S       S.1      0.0
Direct Foreign 1i                 3.0      9.2    22.5       0.0      0.0      1.0
Expectd  Now Cow _hbna*                                    652.6    698     739.7
Gransj                                                     S31.2    547.2    S63.6
Lonos                                                       91.4    11S.3    136.5
BIlter                                                     15.2     16.0    17.0
multbilael                                                 76.2    99.3    119.5
IDA                                                      64.0     80.0    9S.0
Other                                                    122      19.3    24.5
IMP Purihse/;ESAF                                            0.0      0.0      0.0
Direct Foin  anvstmnt                                       30.0     36.0    39.6
Finaning Gap                    -21.0   -01.6  -634.8  -382.6   -42S.7   -376.3
Debt Re iheduig                   0.0   779.3   598.2         0        0        0
Pows"ib Deb Relief 31                                      344.2    398.5    342.0
Debt CancllaionD Commitmetd      21.0    22.3    36.6    38.4    27.2    34.3
Resdual Gap                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
1/ Dda b not mvilable for dth pediod afer 1991.
2/ The dcline in loss in 1991 reflets the cesion of aid fom do Sovie Union.
3/ Assuria ew Pas Club agmunba unde whi tbe 199395 debt svico flows
would bosd          on Tdad      Debt lief r 1995 is am d to be on
Tdiadtm (oquan in prennt v m to a0% disont) coveing dho
smock of pe-c off debt s of and -1995.



Soda Xdlato  of D .IOPM=i14 l                             60                                       ANNEX  III
Momnblque
Saeuqo/inoe ra
=~~~S3                 154        Mt                                 g L r
SbgswhiwdEt63U                             ujla              8.4       106         0.8         48        24           6673
roomp  6  X.6  .1                   37.9
1989)                                            i 4     02.97                  50           .6        27
89        0no        0O.98      06          0.73
.. . 25.              371        3743    59.2
D_S_S_~~~~~~~m~s
annSja            6.?8 12%                2.7        3.1        2.0        2.
mpowdstm  *-     6..                    7.7    *    2         5.         3.0
UjtuwAwdidiffwuha                         diffim'             4.2        7.         662.8                  .8         1.9
..i   lzew * 2137   674       3,620       831
92.56 
*bkthzgedamu                                                4S.5       47.2                  46.7        29.8       30.0
3=  *d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~659                                                      3.80       3.873S5D
s Pstw           6.78       6.53        &            ..9      56.2
Uiba                                                          ..  *                .82
M 'up.        1           214        1.2        15.         9.9        8.
27.0        2                               1C6.0      81.5
)~~~~~~~~~~Y.                          37.0 436.35,0                               6           63.2
O"Ou ~   ~    ~     -                                        62.1             69.75.6
fanals                                  39.1       44.2       503           7         7         67.6
$as .2           194       1371        244
.1 =I, ~~~~~~~~~ M" ~~~47.7                                              37.8       35.9       30.2
..8
p~~fl~~ajaaumtsew,aii                              59.%Q(;    56         SO41.3                 4AQ.       38.A
finals s6t14~                                 58.5       560         50.4       30.4       322.6
IdoaUmd a#m    atIdw hh
NATULALRZODURCES               dwham eq. ba80                 802       8Om       2306       36,7       21,0388
tam   ~~~~~~~~                          260      47693
33.8       36.1       36.9
23   31         58         212~~s      82
pwo    ~    ~     t         61        150       6,1        9,15       6,04
49                              '0708 .0.94  .0.3     407
Aee~~~~.UhUMSF       *efpup.              ..         .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14.0  36.3       ..        3.5
Aa=006wdu  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~380                                              757        73.4   77.2
-   2.0       ~~~9.0     2.            .        4.
Populalits gowth       jfa3tuotalityPrlnay schoolenr@EaIet
4                                                                                    2
120~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
S                                                              6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mf  *f



Social Indicators of Development, 1990                           61                                                ii
Mozambique
Md      reanlnc,~             Nedt
25.20      15.20      roomn       Sub.&ge
INCOMEAND POVERTY
Income
GNP percata (immu 1989)                      us$                                      so..8     330         330       1.32
TOWa hoqasdold income
Shme to top 20% oh ouseods                                     ....
Sham to beaum 40% of househokdtp                                          .
Sbaaetobezamn20% of housebolds                                             ..
Absolute poveny incme: when              KISS pegrpOtou...
Pop. ink absalute povaw.tub whn%ofpp                             .          .
med                                         .....
Pmvalneno Of mualnudold  (trderS)        II. op gro wup.                    .
EXPENDITURE
Food                                       %OI0DP               .           ..
MemIk~~~~~dassse ~  ~       th  mggs    om95i                  Ii I0                8.274     27MS3    40.386
Carealunpoas                -                 ..        53        466~~~~~~~~~~1   3,796  7122     7767
FoodPbodaca1oeParc¶~~~,        197941=100          115.9      1104        82.5       §)26       1~.8         9.9
~~~ca1~~~~~~~~ ~% OfGD?-                                               642         33.7       32.8        15.2
osluo                I erpmcn  1               32      2.04        2.344      2.741
VuanwpISea71
NOW"n                                     lbofGDP               .           ..
Au=g househod ui                      psuonpohaahooid           .           .
Fedinesup    u ouin                        % of GDP              ....
~~~~iold. ~~~~~~ks(g o 1 quvalent                   80.6       96.         85.9      103.8      323.8       843.7
Rural                            1I~~~~~o!sbolsds kt.                       .
Trampoertdmu mmunlsm                      'sOfGD?                ....
Total med length                  km                 .     
?opulatlaapartdqdwm.            pussies~            ..o       206         22-2         ....1
RMEUMKIUINHUMANCAPfAL
Muilalem                                   %dGDP                                         
?opula6opec. physiala                       PK.m.                       4.W                               1,4g         .
hoepbalbd                         a                            -          .           .        755S
Aeustohealthce                             %ofPOP               ...                  40.0
hmmunlad (unde 12umen&s)rw               %da~erptV              ..         ..                               4~46.
Oi R*aaiathsumpyu s u(mdw5)                %dfaus                                    Ms.1.      18.4       21.6        27.S
SduesenofGP..-...
Pdmur. t"                            374~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.                        104.3   103.0
260  -                69.7       ~~~~~~~~94.1  101.1
14         1?         41         33          1817
s of an..                2a.676.4                          67.8 
%ofUu= 64(e  15.)                              7.90       640          6         31.6
NewyesriaatenprUe porw p.                                      4.         I           3A         5.2       20.4        78.9



62                                 ANNE E
IDA LENDING OPERATIONS: FYSS-Pi V
Sector                                      Board         Amoutof          Amount
Approv        IDA Credit       Undisbursed
D,te        (USS mio)       (US mlion)
First Import RehAbilittio            1toiS            45.0            0.0
Second Impost Rdhanbtat              08187            70.0            0.2
Seoond 1mp. Rehab (Afnian F=)        08197            18.6            0.2
Third o Ritation                     05189            90.0            4.2
Eney TA/Reailtadon                  05/87            20.0            13.6
Urban Household Energy               06/89            22.0            19.4
Urban Rehabilitation                 08/88            60.0            36.7
E3ducation& Manpower Developmt.      05/88            15.9            9.7
Health and Nutition                  03189            27.0            25.6
Aducation I                          12/90            53.7            51.7
Beira Corior Transport               09/89            40.0            35.9
EALt. Restmducting.          12/89           50.1            52.5
edh Sea  Eo L Dev.       12/89           32.0            31.6
EPub& SodorMnn
Economic/financial Mgmt TA            10/89           21.0            21.2
Agrtural Relab./Development.         09/90            15.4            15.3
1/   As of November 30, 1991.



63                                  4 E
IFC LENDING OPERATIONS
(As of Februy 29. 1992)
(USD Million)
Sector                                   FY        Lown      Equity     Total
LOMACO Food &Food Preing                 1987       2.5
xai i Oil Chem. & Petroleum              1988                  7.8       7.8
Less:   CE Tmdn,  e
Adjus_nats, Repayumets, Wrkc-offi and               1.2        2.6       3.8
sales
Total=l commitr~HddBylIFC                           1.3        5.2       6.5
Total Undisbursed                                   0.0        5.2       5.2
.... : M



