Page  1
August 11,  1993
His Excellency Adriano Maleiane
Governor
Bank of Mozambique
Maputo, Mozambique
Dear Governor Maleiane:
      MOZAMBIQUE: Economic Recovery Credit
      Amendment to Supplemental Letter No. 2
      (Financial Management Plan) dated June 19, 1992
      This is with reference to your letters of July 7 and 22, 1993,
concerning the release of the second tranche of the Economic
Recovery Credit (Cr. 2384).  I sincerely regret if there has been
any lack of clarity on our part concerning the conditions for the
release of the tranche.  The object of this letter is to clarify the
conditions set forth in Section 3.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement and in the Financial Management Action Plan (FMAP) set
forth in the Supplemental Letter No. 2 to the ERC.
      While we understand that significant progress in accounting
has been recently made, the 1990 and 1991 audits for the Second and
Third Rehabilitation Credits (Cr. 1841 and 2021) were submitted by
the auditors with a qualified opinion and a statement of procurement
not in accordance with World Bank guidelines, including missing
supporting documentation for large amounts of funds (about US$4
million for the Third Rehabilitation Credit alone).  For these
reasons, we are not in a position to release the second tranche,
until the action plan described below is carried out in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
Second Tranche Release of The ERC
      Completion of all phases of the FMAP would take a considerable
period of time and further delay of the release of the Second
Tranche, which would in turn  have a very negative impact on the
macro-economic situation.  To avoid this situation, we would propose
to amend paragraphs 2 and 4 of the FMAP to set the following
concrete actions as conditions for release of the Second Tranche:
(a)   submission to IDA of a "progress report" prepared by
consultants, satisfactory to IDA, which reviews and describes every
item of "irregular procurement" identified in the 1990 audit reports
on the Third Rehabilitation Credit and associated financing; such
description will include all appropriate reference numbers and
dates, identity of the importer and vendor, and amount of
procurement in the invoiced currency and US dollars.  To that
effect, the Government would take all necessary measures to locate
the missing documentation (e.g. through GCPI, Ministry of Commerce,
Commercial Bank of Mozambique, etc);
(b)   the Government's proposal on how it will remedy the irregular
procurement described in the progress reports from among the
following:
      (i)   substitution of complete original documentation from
      procurement not funded by other development agencies or
      donors;
      (ii)  reimbursement to IDA;
      (iii) cancellation from the Third Rehabilitation Credit or
      associated financing.
Page  2
Financial Sector and Enterprise Adjustment Credit (FESAC)
      We propose that remaining measures concerning the second phase
of the FMAP be included as condition of negotiations.  We will write
to you separately to that effect so that all conditions would be
listed together.
      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of
the Republic of Mozambique by signing, dating, and returning to us
this letter.  This agreement will become effective on the date of
countersignature.
      I am looking forward to hearing from you so that we can
proceed promptly with the release of the second tranche of the ERC.
My best regards,
Sincerely,
Praful Patel
Acting Director
Southern Africa Department
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By:
     Authorized Representative
Date:  August 24, 1993
Copy to:
His Excellency
Eneas de Conceicao Comiche
Ministry of Finance
Maputo, Mozambique
