OFFICAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 5054-AM
Financing Agreement
(Third Development Policy Operation)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated 154l6-   /   , 2012


﻿FINANCING AGREEMENT
Agreement dated  4 z Cuta2-V        15     , 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
ARMENIA ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
("Association") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.   The Recipient and the
Association therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II- FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to thirty two million six
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 32,600,000) (variously, "Credit" and
"Financing").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
2.04.  The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05. The Interest Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall
equal to one and a quarter percent (1.25%) per annum.
2.06.  The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.07.  The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.08.  The Payment Currency is Dollars.
-2-


﻿ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end:
(a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework and
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
be carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following that:
(a)    the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient's
macroeconomic policy framework; and
(b)    the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement have been
fulfilled.
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
-3-


﻿6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
1 Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
+374-10-524282
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423(MCI)         1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Aut orized Representative
-4-


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds
Section I.    Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
1. The Recipient has maintained social safety nets, pensions, and priority social spending
programs for the poor and vulnerable by maintaining their shares in the 2011 budget.
2.     The Recipient's Government issued a Decree No. 978 - N on the "Status of the State
Accreditation of Tertiary Level Institutions and Academic Programs in the Republic of
Armenia" including tertiary education quality assurance policy, standards, criteria,
procedures and guidelines after consultation with stakeholders, institutions, and
employers.
3.     The Recipient's Government implemented: (a) comprehensive policy for copayments by
issuing a Decree 1762-N dated December 23, 2010; and (b) co-payment for emergency
and gynecology programs, including expanded protection for the poor by issuing Decrees
Nos. 91-N dated January 27 2011, 101-A dated January 31, 2011, 232-A dated February
18, 2011, 314-A dated February 25, 2011, and 613-A dated April 6, 2011.
4.     The Recipient made the One Stop Shop for business registry fully operational in the city
of Yerevan and established online linkages for enterprise registry in other municipalities.
5.     The Recipient's National Assembly has adopted amendments to the Law on "Organizing
and Conducting Inspections in the Republic of Armenia" dated June 23, 2011, to
introduce risk-based approaches, reduce discretionary powers and increase transparency.
6.     The Recipient has implemented measures to ensure efficiency, transparency, and
accountability in private sector participation, in accordance with the extractive industries
transparency initiative principles and increased mining sector attractiveness to private
investors by issuing: (a) a Decree of the Government No. 1901-N dated December 29,
2011 on the "Approval of Procedure for Calculation of Royalty on Earnings from Sales";
and (b) an Order of the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources No. 249-A dated
December 30, 2011 on the "Requirements for the Mine Closure Plan and Nature and
Environmental Impact Assessment as an Attachment to the Application Requesting the
Mineral Extraction Right".
7.     The Recipient has achieved further progress in Business Process Reengineering (BPR)
by: (a) approving a BPR, satisfactory to the Bank, and the associated time bound action
plan by the Government's Decree No. 1017-N dated June 30, 2011 for its
implementation; (b) putting in place fully operational system of risk based audits based
on Government's Decree No. 1636 -N dated November 10, 2011; (c) implementing e-
filing of tax returns pursuant to the Laws on Amendments to the Law on Taxes (No 194-
N dated October 27, 2009, No. 197-N dated December 8, 2010 and No. 218-N dated June
23, 2011).
-5-


﻿8.     The Recipient implemented a fully functioning "green channel" to facilitate the operation
of customs clearance by default (backed by post release verifications, controls, audits,
and investigations) and to strengthen the customs preventive and enforcement capacity by
amendments to the Customs Code dated January 15, 2011 (25-N).
Section II.  Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.     Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations               Amount of the Financing Allocated
(expressed in SDR)
Single Withdrawal Tranche                 32,600,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                              32,600,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
1.    No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
and (b) with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.
D.     Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
1.    the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association
into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association;
and
2.    the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of an amount of the Financing
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.
E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such
request shall be cancelled.
F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.
-6-


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due                   Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each January 15 and July 15:
commencing July 15, 2017 to and including January  1.65%
15, 2027
commencing July 15, 2027 to and including January  3.35%
15, 2037
*      The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the
General Conditions.
-7-


﻿APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:
Group         Sub-group            Description of Item
112                                Alcoholic beverages
121                                Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                                Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                                Radioactive and associated
materials
667                                Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718           718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728           728.43               Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                                Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
-8-


﻿(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally
hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association);
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
the Association to address such practices when they occur.
2.     "Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the Recipient and the Bank in support
of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time. "Loan Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
3.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association General
Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 3 1, 2010 with the modifications set forth
in Section II of this Appendix.
4.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated December 30, 2011 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
the Association in support of the Program during its execution.
5.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1 .    The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3.     "Section 3.02. Service Charge and Interest Charge
(a) Service Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association a service charge on the
Withdrawn Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing Agreement. The
-9-


﻿Service Charge shall accrue from the respective dates on which amounts of the
Credit are withdrawn and shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment
Date. Service Charges shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-
day months.
(b) Interest Charge. The Recipient shall pay the Association interest on the Withdrawn
Credit Balance at the rate specified in the Financing Agreement. Interest shall accrue
from the respective dates on which amounts of the Credit are withdrawn and shall be
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date. Interest shall be computed
on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months."
4.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article IV are renumbered accordingly.
5.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c)    The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records."
7.     Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
follows:
"Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...    (c)   The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
of their respective obligations undef the Legal Agreements and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing."
8.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Financing is put in support
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
Financing Agreement."
-10-


﻿(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
are deleted in their entirety.
(c)   The term "Financing Payment" is modified by inserting the words "the Interest
Charge" between the words "the Service Charge" and "the Commitment
Charge".
(d)    A new term called "Interest Charge" is added to read as follows:
"'Interest Charge' means the interest charge specified in the Financing
Agreement for the purpose of Section 3.02(b)."
(e)    The term "Payment Date" is modified by inserting the words "Interest Charges"
between the words "Service Charges" and "Commitment Charges".
(f)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows:
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
of which the Financing is made." All references to "Project" throughout these
General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program".
(g)   The term "Service Charge" is modified by replacing the reference to Section 3.02
with Section 3.02 (a).
-11-


