OFFICIAL
WCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8125 -AM
Loan Agreement
(Third Development Policy Operation)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated   etufa,  /  ,2012


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated  F    ZLOatf /S,-2012, entered into between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
(0.25%).
2.04.  The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
(e) of the General Conditions.
2.05.  The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.
2.06.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
-2-


﻿2.07.  (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and (ii) a change of the
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate
based on a Fixed Spread.
(b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
be carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that:
-3-


﻿(a)    the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework; and
(b)    the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been
fulfilled.
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance.
6.02.  The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
I Melik-Adamyan Street
Yerevan 0010
Republic of Armenia
Facsimile:
+374-10-524282
6.03.  The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD           248423(MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145(MCI)
-4-


﻿AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTI N AND DEVELOPMENT
By
epresentative
-5-


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I.    Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
1. The Borrower has maintained social safety nets, pensions, and priority social spending
programs for the poor and vulnerable by maintaining their shares in the 2011 budget.
2.     The Borrower's Government issued a Decree No. 978 - N on the "Status of the State
Accreditation of Tertiary Level Institutions and Academic Programs in the Republic of
Armenia", including tertiary education quality assurance policy, standards, criteria,
procedures and guidelines after consultation with stakeholders, institutions, and
employers.
3.     The Borrower's Government implemented: (a) comprehensive policy for copayments by
issuing a Decree 1762-N dated December 23, 2010; and (b) co-payment for emergency
and gynecology programs, including expanded protection for the poor by issuing Decrees
Nos. 91-N dated January 27 2011, 101-A dated January 31, 2011, 232-A dated February
18, 2011, 314-A dated February 25, 2011, and 613-A dated April 6, 2011.
4.     The Borrower made the One Stop Shop for business registry fully operational in Yerevan
and established online linkages for enterprise registry in other municipalities.
5.     The Borrower's National Assembly has adopted amendments to the Law on "Organizing
and Conducting Inspections in the Republic of Armenia" dated June 23, 2011, to
introduce risk-based approaches, reduce discretionary powers and increase transparency.
6.     The Borrower has implemented measures to ensure efficiency, transparency, and
accountability in private sector participation, in accordance with extractive industries
transparency initiative principles and increased mining sector attractiveness to private
investors by issuing: (a) a Decree of the Government No. 1901-N dated December 29,
2011 on the "Approval of Procedure for Calculation of Royalty on Earnings from Sales";
and (b) an Order of the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources No. 249-A dated
December 30, 2011 on the "Requirements for the Mine Closure Plan and Nature and
Environmental Impact Assessment as an Attachment to the Application Requesting the
Mineral Extraction Right".
7.     The Borrower has achieved further progress in Business Process Reengineering (BPR)
by: (a) approving a BPR, satisfactory to the Bank, and the associated time bound action
plan by the Government's Decree    No. 1017-N   dated June 30, 2011 for its
implementation; (b) putting in place fully operational system of risk based audits based
on Government's Decree No. 1636 -N dated November 10, 2011; (c) implementing e-
filing of tax returns pursuant to the Laws on Amendments to the Law on Taxes (No 194-
N dated October 27, 2009, No. 197-N dated December 8, 2010 and No. 218-N dated
June 23, 2011).
-6-


﻿8.     The Borrower implemented a fully functioning "green channel" to facilitate the operation
of customs clearance by default (backed by post release verifications, controls, audits,
and investigations) and to strengthen the customs preventive and enforcement capacity by
amendments to the Customs Code dated January 15, 2011 (25-N).
Section II.  Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.     General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
notice to the Borrower.
B.     Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the Front-
end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the Borrower may make
withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end
is set out in the table below:
Allocations                 Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche               29,925,000
(2) Front-end Fee                              75,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                                30,000,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
1.    No withdrawal shall be made of the Single First Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Bank is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b)
with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D.     Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1.    the withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon the deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
shall be cancelled.
F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.
-7-


﻿SCHEDULE2
Amortization Schedule
1. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date                      Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each January 15and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2022
through July 15, 2036                              3.33%
On January 15, 2037                                       3.43%
2.    If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance
as of such date in accordance with paragraph I of this Schedule.
(b)    Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.
3.    (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.
-8-


﻿(b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
such billing system.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
-9-


﻿APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group         Sub-group            Description of Item
112                                Alcoholic beverages
121                                Tobacco, un-manufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                                Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                                Radioactive and associated
materials
667                                Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718           718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728           728.43               Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                                Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
-10-


﻿(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
the Borrower is a party[, and any other goods designated as environmentally
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank);
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
(f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
such practices when they occur.
2.     "Financing Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Association
in support of the Program, of the same date as this Agreement, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time. "Financing Agreement" includes all appendices, schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Financing Agreement.
3.     "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications
set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
4.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
letter dated December 30, 2011 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
support of the Program during its execution.
5.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the General Condition
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
I.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management,
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
-11-


﻿5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
...    (c)    The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...    (c)    The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified
to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout these General
Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
which the Loan is made."
-12-


