Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  COPY
Report No. 2523a-MOR
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
VECETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
August 16, 1979
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
Agriculture II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   !



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1  DH4.0
DH  1 = US$0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                    -         0.039 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                          -         39 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                     -         0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                       -         2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)                  -         10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                   -         35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                          -         0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 hectoliter (hl)                    -         26.4 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                      -         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                 -         2,205.00 pounds (lb)
1 bar                                -         14.666 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilometer per hour (km/h)          -         0.6 mile per hour (mph)
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CLCA           Caisses Locales de Crédit Agricole
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole
CRCA           Caisses Régionales de Crédit Agricole
DE             Rural Engineering Directorate
DMV            Agricultural Development Directorate
DRA            Agricultural Research Directorate
BEC            European Economic Community
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
MARA           Ministry of Agriculture
OCE            Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation
SASMA          Société Agricole de Services au Maroc
This document ha a restrictod distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of thoir officiai dutbu. Its contnte may not otherwise be disclo ed without Worid Bank authorization.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ..................................................    1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR AND THE HORTICULTURAL  SUBSECTOR .......    1
A.   The Agricultural  Sector ...................................    1
B.   Bank  Involvement  in the Agricultural  Sector ...............    5
C.   The Horticultural  Subsector ...............................    6
III.     THE PROJECT AREA,  ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL AND
CONSTRAINTS ...................................................    9
A.  Location, Water  and Land Resources  ........................    9
B.   Land Use, Land Tenure  and  Population ......................   10
C.   Agricultural  Supporting  Services  .........................   11
D.   Packing  Stations  and Export Facilities ....................   13
E..  Roads  and Social  Infrastructure ...........................   14
IV.    THE PROJECT ...................................................  14
A.   Origin and Objectives .....................................   14
B.   Project Description .......................................   15
C.   Cost Estimates ............................................   18
D.   Financing .................................................  20
E.   Implementation  Schedule ...................................  21
F.   Procurement ...............................................  21
G.   Disbursements .............................................  22
H.   Environmental Effect ......................................  24
V.    PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ........................................  24
A.   Organization  and Management ...............................  24
B.   Agricultural  Supporting  Services ..........................  25
C.   Lending  Terms  and Procedures ..............................  27
D.   Marketing Organization  and Strategy .......................  29
E.   Construction  and Maintenance  of Roads .....................  31
F.   Accounts  and Audits .......................................  31
G.   Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation .............  32
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in January 1979,
composed of Messrs. C. Polti (Agriculturist), N. Imboden (Economist),
L. Bou (Marketing Consultant), and Mrs. E. Garibaldi (Agricultural Consultant).



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                     Page No.
VI.   THE PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICIATION .......................   32
A. Production                             ..                              32
B. Marketing                              ..     34
C.  Prices ....................................................   40
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries                    .        .          43
E. Financial Analysis                          ..                         44
F.  Economic Analysis .................      ..      ....................   46
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................................   48
ANNEXES
1.   Table 1:  Project Cost and Schedule of Expenditures ....             ..........    50
Table 2:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement .....................    53
2.   Table 1:  Production Schedule ....................................    54
Table 2:  Projected Distribution of Moroccan Vegetable ....            .......    55
Exports Among Western European Countries
3.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File ....              .............    56
Map IBRD 14279



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Morocco has requested a Bank Loan to help finance
a development program in the horticultural subsector vith emphasis on produc-
tion and export of high-value off-season vegetables. The Project, which is on
the Government's priority list of development programs in agriculture, would
be the Bank's first participation in the horticultural subsector for export
in Morocco. The Project was selected because of (i) the importance of fruit
and vegetables in foreign trade; (ii) the decline of Moroccan vegetable
exports to traditional markets despite increased Western European vegetable
imports; and (iii) the need to develop Morocco's existing agricultural poten-
tial through modern cropping techniques as well as a new marketing strategy
for vegetables.
1.02      The Project was identified in early 1978 when the national export
agency (OE) 1/ issued its "Development Plan for Vegetables" (1979-1985),
aimed at doubling the value of vegetable exports through (i) the construc-
tion of greenhouses, (ii) the modernization of packing and grading infra-
structure, and (iii) the development of deep-freezing facilities. The
Project is consistent with the Bank's general economic mission's recommenda-
tions to support export oriented projects. The Project was prepared by
the Government of Morocco with the assistance of FAO/CP from March to December
1978. Project preparation was closely monitored by the Bank. The last
Project Brief was issued on November 22, 1978.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE HORTICULTURAL SUBSECTOR
A.  The Agricultural Sector
General
2.01      Morocco's population is estimated at 18 million (1977) of which
about 60% live in rural areas. Population growth has averaged 2.9% p.a.;
4.8% in the urban sector, 1.8% in the rural sector, the difference being due
to rural-urban migration. Agriculture contributed about 14% of GDP in 1977,
down from an average of 22% during 1967 to 1970. About 40% of the labor force
is employed in agriculture compared to 60% in 1971. Agricultural exports
accounted for 35% of total exports in 1977 (falling from about 60% of total
1/   State Board for export and external trade of fruits, vegetables, wine
and processed food.



-2-
exports prior to 1975). The Moroccan economy can be characterized as pre-
dominantly market oriented with state intervention in agriculture occuring
through price and credit policy, taxes, import controls, Government invest-
ment in infrastructure, Government agricultural services, and Government in-
vestment in public farming enterprises and agro-industry.
Land Use
2.02      Morocco has a total land area of 50 million hectares of which 7.4
million have soils and moisture suitable for cropping, and 20 million are in
semi-arid or mountain regions suitable only for grazing.  Permanent irrigation
covered 690,000 ha in 1977. About 5.8 million ha of the 7.4 million of agri-
cultural land are cultivated each year; the remainder is left fallow. About
4.5 million ha are planted under cereals, 500,000 ha under pulses, 400,000 ha
under fruit trees, 140,000 ha under vegetables, 60,000 ha under sugar beet,
and the remainder under oilseeds, cotton, and forage crops. Livestock is pri-
marily extensive, based on grazing of pasture land. Intensive livestock pro-
duction based on cultivated forage crops, barley, or industrial crop residues,
is rapidly becoming important in irrigated and high rainfall areas. Most of
Morocco's rainfed areas are characterized by traditional agricultural prac-
tices, and limited use of fertilizers, plant protection, certified seeds and
farm machinery. As a result, crop yields and livestock productivity are gene-
rally low.
Agricultural Performance
2.03      Over the last 15 years, agricultural output (in constant prices)
grew at an average rate of 2.4% p.a., with wide fluctuations mainly due
to variations in climatic conditions. Domestic agricultural production has
not kept up with the increased demand caused by urbanization, and by income
and population growth. The result has been a 21% p.a. average increase in
food imports from 1970 to 1977 (in current prices), 9.6% p.a. in terms of
quantity. The expansion of agricultural imports, along with a shift of
exports to domestic consumption, has maintained a generally adequate food
supply and nutritional level. However, poverty pockets exist with significant
numbers of people who have nutritional deficiencies (para 2.11).
2.04      Performance has varied between agricultural products.  In those
cases where modern farming techniques and inputs could be introduced rapidly
and where prices permitted net income per ha and per day of family labor to
be attract-ive, progress has been rapid. Examples are sugar beet and sugar
cane production which have been introduced in modern irrigation perimeters.
Sugar beet production grew by 13% p.a. from 1967/69 to 1976/78. Similarly,
milk production increased from 500,000 t in 1971 to 650,000 t in 1977 (4.3%
p.a.) due to Government introduction of imported high yield pure-bred cows
from Europe, construction of milk collection centers, promotion of irrigated
forage production, provision of animal health services, and subsidization of
milk prices paid to producers. Government efforts to increase production of
crops that do not alter farming practices (cereals and pulses), or when
Government price policy does not permit farmers to obtain sufficient income
(oilseeds, cotton, maize), have limited or no success. Cereal yields
increased 1.2 quintals/ha in 18 years (with considerable annual variation).



-3-
The Interim Plan, 1978-1980
2.05      Under Morocco's Three Year "Interim Plan" (1978-1980), agriculture
would receive 18% of planned investment, "as it did under the Third Plan (1973-
1977). Total Government investment in agriculture for 1978-1980 is tentatively
foreseen to equal about US$963 million equivalent, out of total investment of
US$5,347 million equivalent.
2.06      The "Interim Plan" foresees the same distribution of Government
investment between categories as under the Third Plan. About 57% of Govern-
ment agricultural investment would go to irrigation projects, 16% to the
extension service and to the agricultural components of rural development
projects. About 6% would go to livestock development, 5.6% to forestry and
soil conservation, and the remainder to agro-economic studies, the cadastral
survey, research, rural water supply, and agricultural education. A major
effort is now underway to organize farmers into service cooperatives, improve
input supply organization and infrastructure, and create basic infrastructure
such as milk collecting centers, grain storage facilities, and animal health
stations.
Agricultural Sector Issues
2.07      Public Finance Situation and Emphasis on Irrigation.  Eighty-five
percent of the rural population is dependent on rainfed agriculture, and Gov-
ernment studies indicate that improvements in farming practices alone could
increase rainfed agricultural production dramatically. The "Interim Plan"
recognizes for the first time the need to'shift more Government resources to
rainfed production, but due to the tight public finance situation, and the
need to complete ongoing irrigation projects, the investment and operating
budgets give priority to irrigation, although no new schemes would begin
during the Plan period.
2.08      Exports.  An import substitution policy and growing domestic con-
sumption, due to population and income growth, have diverted agricultural
exports to local markets. As a result, agricultural exports have somewhat
stagnated; their value has increased at 6%, but their quantity has declined at
1.2% p.a. Cereals and meat are no longer exported, while fruit and vegetables
now constitute more than 50% of agricultural exports. The development of an
export growth strategy, in which fruit and vegetables play an important
role, would help alleviate existing balance of payment difficulties. The
proposed Vegetable and Marketing Project would be of crucial importance to
this strategy.
2.09      Price Regulation and Subsidies.  The Government purchases hard
wheat and barley at an official support price, while the prices of soft
wheat, most industrial crops, and milk are fixed, as are the prices of public
utilities. This price intervention is supplemented by controls on imports,
foreign exchange transactions, and interest rates. In addition, subsidies are
provided to maintain low retail prices for flour, bread, sugar, vegetable oil,
and milk, as well as for fertilizer and some high yielding seeds. Agrarian
Reform Cooperatives and Farmers' Associations receive special input subsidies.



- 4
The Government's price and subsidy policy seems to be administratively cumber-
some and inefficient. It has kept some agricultural prices artificially low,
discouraging production for the market, encouraged imports of foodstuff by
processing enterprises because farmers are unwilling to sell at low official
prices, and subsidized milk production unnecessarily. Evidence also exists
that the urban poor obtain only a small percentage of consumer food subsidies,
and that nearly all agricultural input subsidies go to wealthier farmers.
S,ubsidies therefore have little impact on alleviating the condition of the
poor or of stimulating small farmers to use modern inputs. The horticultural
subsector is not part of a Government incentive program and does not benefit
from special subsidies.
2.10      Taxation Policy.  The present tax system is based on the production
potential of the farms in terms of rainfed or irrigated area, size of flock
and number of fruit trees. However, the assessment of the production poten-
tial is made on averages which sometimes underestimate the net values of
production especially after investments are made on production units. The
MoEoccan authorities are aware of the inadequacies of the present system and
are pressing for the completion of a major reform of the agricultural fiscal
system. Government has indicated that priority fiscal reform proposals could
be included in the 1980 Finance Law.
2.11      Poverty.  About 45% of Moroccan farm families live at or below the
absolute poverty level of US$200 per capita. Only 60% of the available rural
labor (which totals 3,130,000 man-years) is fully employed. Moroccan statis-
tics indicate a reduction in average per capita income and an increase in
underemployment in rural areas. Government has undertaken a poverty oriented
program requiring a greater commitment of staff and financial resources. The
Bank, through its lending program to Morocco, is contributing to Government's
efforts to improve the living conditions of farm families below absolute
poverty (paras 2.14-2.15).
2.12      Land Tenure.  Distribution of private land in Morocco is unequal,
with about 75% of the farm families having 5 ha or less, owning 25% of the
agricultural land.  Farms are excessively fragmented with 1.9 million faras
divided into 11.6 million parcels. The average size of a parcel is 0.64 ha,
too small for efficient farming. In addition, absentee landlords often hold
land for speculative purposes and do not cultivate it. When cultivated, it
is often by tenant farmers who have little security of tenure and as a
result have no incentive to invest in or improve the land. Morocco's Three-
Year '"Interim Plan" proposes several land reform measures which would
alleviate these problems and merit Bank support. These measures include
limitations on the partition of land below a minimum size, increased induce-
ments to cultivate arable land, land consolidation, creation of viable
holdings on collectivity owned land, extension of the length of tenure by
tenant farmers, and increased recovery of Government investment costs through
land betterment levies and user charges (applicable particularly in irri-
gated areas). In the horticulture subsector, off-season vegetables are
grown on small irrigated plots, mostly by owner-cultivators. Because of the
labor intensive nature of vegetable production, land fragmentation is not a
constraint for the modernization of the vegetable production.



- 5-
2.13      Agricultural Extension and Research.  Agricultural research in
Morocco is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture (MARA). It is hampered
by inadequate organization, financial constraints, lack of qualified staff
and bureaucratic behavior. Research is theoretical, and developed in isola-
tion from production priorities. The extension service is encumbered with
administrative and regulatory tasks; it employs agents with little practical
farming experience, and lacks organization, material, and a systematic method
for extension. Extension is diffused and discontinous. Moreover, extension
agents' salary structure has become increasingly uncompetitive in attracting
and keeping qualified staff. The "Interim Plan" institutes a major reform of
the extension service, based on the concept to be introduced in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa Project financed by the Bank. Extension agents would relinquish all
regulatory and most administrative tasks. MARA would concentrate on creating
service cooperatives where agents would provide advice on agricultural matters
and aid in obtaining credit and inputs. Inadequate practical experience and
low salaries will continue to be serious obstacles to an effective extension
service, but a gradual improvement is foreseen. The horticultural sector,
however, benefits, in addition to MARA's general extension service, from a
limited, yet effective organization for agricultural research and extension
largely controlled by OCE and financed through levies on exports (para 3.09).
B. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
2.14      Performance under Previous Projects.  Bank Group lending for agri-
culture in Morocco began in 1965 and to date 12 projects have been undertaken
and supported by US$413 million in Bank/IDA funds (US$24 million of which is
IDA credits). They include five irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65,
completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76), and
Doukkala II (FY77). There have also been four Agricultural Credit Projects
(FY66, FY73, FY77 and FY79), an Agro-industries Project (Sebou Il, FY74),
and a Rainfed Agricutural Development Project in the Meknes region (FY75).
A second Agricultural Development Project (Fes-Karia-Tissa) approved by the
Bank in FY78 was declared effective on February 15, 1979. These projects are
generally performing well. Implementation delays were caused primarily by
lack of coordination between and within participating Ministries. The major
issues in the Meknes Project have been the delay in land redistribution,
project start-up delays, and a poorly defined division of responsibility
between the Project Authority and the Central Government. Measures correcting
these problemns are now being implemented. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Project was
designed so as to minimize organization and management problems such as those
encountered with Meknes.
2.15      Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy.  Bank agricultural sector strat-
egy in Morocco is (i) to concentrate on target group-oriented agriculture
projects, shifting away from the large scale irrigation projects emphasized
in the past, and (ii) to emphasize highly productive export-oriented projects
in line with the Bank's country economic recommendation to promote exports.
Irrigation and small scale agro-industry projects would be developed to comple-
ment rainfed farming.  Bank emphasis on adequate recovery charges in irriga-
tion projects should continue to be made explicit. Consistent with this



-6-
strategy, the Bank is preparing a rural development project similar to the
recently approved Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project emphasizing extension,
training, erosion control, input supply, credit, and rural infrastructure to
aid the rural poor. Additional rural development, agricultural credit, and
export oriented projects are foreseen.
C. The Horticultural Subsector
Importance of Horticulture and Past Performance
2.16      Fruit (mainly citrus) and vegetables constitute one of the main
components of the Moroccan foreign trade. In value terms, they are second in
importance of exports only to phosphates. Citrus orchards cover about 70,000
ha and employ about 300,000 people. Exports have increased from about 350,000
t in 1962/63 to about 600,000 t in 1972/73. Since then exports have stagnated
or slightly declined due to a significant percentage of old orchards and
obsolete varieties. The Government has initiated a citrus grove improvement
program aiming at expanding citrus exports to 720,000 t by 1980/81.
2.17,     For vegetables, Morocco is one of the main producers and exporters
in the Mediterranean region. Vegetables cover about 140,000 ha, of which
120,000 ha are in-season (May-October) and 20,000 ha are off-season (November-
April) vegetables. Total production amounts to about 2,300,000 t, of which
500,000 t are off-season vegetables and about 200,000 t are exported mostly
from October to May. Tomatoes and potatoes have been traditionally the main
products for export. Contrary to the powerful and well-organized citrus
sector mainly established in large farms, vegetables are grown on small and
traditional farms. Since the trade agreement with the European Economic Com-
munity (EEC) of March 1969 and the associated loss of its trading advantages
on the French market, Morocco has found itself confronted .with competition
which exposed the relative weakness of the vegetable subsector, mainly the
lack of crop diversification, low productivity and obsolete agricultural
techniques. However, by opening new outlets, particularly in West Germany,
Morocco succeeded in maintaining vegetable exports at about 275,000 tons p.a.
until 1975. In 1976, in order to protect its own production under greenhouse,
the EEC restricted vegetable imports from May to October, thus reducing
significantly the Moroccan calendar of exports. Confronted with a number of
technical and institutional difficulties (para 2.21) the vegetable sector has
been unable to adapt to the new export calendar and export of vegetables have
declined by about 30% in the past three years. The Government's Development
Plan for vegetables would be the first step to stop this decline and to
recapture the Western European market.
2.18      OCE.  Created in 1965, OCE is a national marketing Board with a
monopoly for agricultural exports. Fruit and vegetables represent 70% of
its foreign trade while the remaining 30% are mostly wine, cotton and pro-
cessed food. OCE is financially autonomous. Its organization includes 12
directorates and personnel of about 2,000. OCE's role includes supervision
of private and cooperative packing and grading stations, quality control of



- 7 -
exported goods, shipment to and sales in the European markets. OCE's opera-
tion costs are recovered through a levy of 3.6% on the products' CIF price.
While OCE's efficiency is adequate for citrus, its marketing techniques are
inappropriate for vegetables (paras. 2.21-2.22).
2.19      The enforcement of strict quality criteria, required to compete
successfully in the European market, have resulted in the rejection of about
half of the current vegetable production for export: about 35% is eliminated
at the packing level and the remaining at harbor control. To improve the
quality of production and to increase exports OCE has become increasingly
involved in extension and research primarily through the introduction of
selected hybrid seeds and the promotion of greenhouses.
2.20      Vegetable producers have mixed reactions about OCE.  Its interven-
tion at the production level and its technical assistance (para. 3.09) are
highly appreciated, but its marketing role and its quality control criteria
are often not well understood by producers. The limitation of OCE's marketing
role to that of a commissioner who does not share the farmers' production and
commercial risks is often resented. Farmer Associations desire a greater
commitment from OCE, including the guarantee of a minimum price to producers.
OCE is strongly opposed to such a guarantee which could threaten its financial
position and would encourage th.e current lack of cropping diversification. The
proposed improvement in OCE's marketing structure (para 5.22), as well as
better planning and control of production, would permit OCE, on a limited
scale to pass to the producers the guarantees resulting from its forward
contract with European importers (para. 5.19).
Causes of the Decline in Vegetable Exports
2.21      In view of the rapid expansion of the European market for off-season
produce (paras 6.07 to 6.30), the decline in Moroccan exports is surprising.
Three main causes of this decline have been identified:
(a) the failure of production to adapt to new techniques, coin-
ciding with the development in the other producing countries
of high-yielding hybrids, new vegetable varieties and green-
house techniques.
(b) OCE's insufficient control over production and the failure
to adapt to the changing demands of consumers. Potatoes
and tomatoes have remained the primary products but potato
consumption is declining and the present 4% annual growth
of off-season tomato imports into the EEC is well below
that of other early vegetables (which is running at between
10% and 20% p.a.).
(c) OCE's failure to adopt new marketing practices. In France,
(80% of its vegetable exports) OCE uses the same distri-
bution system for marketing fresh vegetables as for citrus:
a system of dockside auction sales at the ports. This
organization undoubtedly works well for storable products



- 8-
like fruit and citrus, but is not adequate for perishable
products such as vegetables. The rapid development of sales
by telephone, and progress in data processing and telecommuni-
cations, have profoundly altered the marketing arrangements
for these commodities. Vegetable wholesalers are now
specialized and equipped with the necessary facilities
(cold storage, packing plants, transportation facilities)
to buy and sell directly their commodities. This
marketing technique bypasses the dockside auction sale
and brokers.  Most of the other large exporting Boards
have long ago abandoned the dockside sale system for
fresh vegetables and have joined up with wholesalers-
distributors to form a specialized sales network.  The
latter system has been used successfully by OCE in
Western Germany and it should now be applied in France
(para 5.22).
2.22      The major constraints which led to a decline of production and
export of off-season vegetables are interrelated and have a cumulative
effect. The failure of production to modernize its techniques and to meet
the market demand has led OCE to concentrate more heavily on citrus and
to organize its marketing structure for citrus trade. This emphasis as
well as the inadequate vegetable marketing structure has in turn adversely
affected any attempt to modernize vegetable cropping and diversify produc-
tion. This vicious circle can only be broken by simultaneously addressing
the production and marketing issues of the vegetable sector. Encouraging
prospects for a rapid improvement of the situation are: the potential of
the region, the existing farmers' organization and the OCE's willingness to
overcome its present difficulties.
Development Objectives and Strategy
2.23      The Government's "Development Plan for Off-Season Vegetables" aims
at recapturing and increasing Morocco's share of off-season vegetables in the
European market. Morocco's basic advantages over its competitors are the
following: (i) lower production costs than those of European countries, par-
ticularly labor cost; (ii) favorable climatic conditions; (iii) the proximity
of the EEC market compared with non-European competitors (Israel, Senegal,
Kenya, etc.); and (iv) the reputation of Moroccan products, particularly their
taste qualities. In addition, Morocco has established durable trade links
with EEC, particularly France, which provide its products with a ready access
to these markets.
2.24      The present Project would help Morocco in implementing its redressal
plan.  The Project strategy would be dictated by the causes of the export
decline and include the following measures:
(a) Increase in vegetable yields and improvement of their
quality through modernization of cropping techniques, such
as soil disinfection, introduction of high-yield hybrid



-9-
varieties, adequate fertilization and pest control, devel-
opment of green-houses, and improvement of packing and
grading operations.
(b)  Planning of production through strengthening OCE's links
with the growers and diversification of crops so that
supply reflects demand.
(c)  Improvement of the marketing structure and establishment
of specific commercial channels for vegetables, separate
from those of citrus, based on a sale-through distribution
system.
III. THE PROJECT AREA, ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL AND CONSTRAINTS
A. Location, Water and Land Resources
Location
3.01      The Project area consists of a narrow strip along the Atlantic Coast
(map in annex) from Kenitra in the North to Agadir in the South. Five Regions
are affected by the Project. Total area encompasses about 100,000 ha of which
about 31,000 ha are under vegetable cultivation, and 18,000 ha are devoted to
off-season vegetables, with the following distribution:
Vegetables            Off-season
Region            Total Area    Total Area         Vegetables Area
(ha)         (ha)        ha   % of total area
Kenitra/Rabat          3,700          3,600      1,200           32
Casablanca            12,900          8,400      7,300           56
El Jadida             11,600          8,900      5,000           43
Safi                   1,400            800        600           43
Agadir                73,000          9,100      3,900            5
Total           102,600         30,800    18,000            18
Climate
3.02      The climate is characterized by mild winters, with average temper-
ature from December to March ranging from 12.8  to 16 C in Rabat and Casa-
blanca, 13.80 to 170C in El Jadida and Safi, and 14.60 to 19.20C in Agadir.
The rainy season extends from October to May; average rainfall drops from
500 mm in the North (Kenitra-Rabat) to 250 mm in the South (Agadir).  These
climatic conditions are favorable to the production of off-season vegetables
in the entire Project area, with some limitations in the North and increasing
advantages further South. Strong winds are frequent in all the Project area
and make it necessary to protect crops with windbreaks.



- 10 -
Water Resources
3.03      Water resources and its quality are unevenly distributed in the
Project area. In the Kenitra-Rabat region groundwater is abundant and soft,
while in the Casablanca, El Jadida and Safi Provinces aquifers are already
fully exploited (and locally over-exploited), with some salinity problems,
particularly in the El Jadida and Safi areas. In the Agadir region abundant
water of good quality is available from two sources: surface water in the
Souss Valley and the Massa perimeters, groundwater elsewhere; however, compe-
tition for urban and industrial uses is growing around the,city of Agadir.
The proposed Project is based on the present water distribution and its
usage in the Project area. In order to maximize existing water resources,
the following measures would be implemented: (i) whenever water is saline,
crops would be restricted to resistant species; (ii) although the Project
is not expected to increase the already cultivated areas and their respective
water requirements, conservation measures through improvement of irrigation
systems would be introduced in most of the Project area (para 4.06); and
(iii) hydrogeological surveys would be carried out to determine the dynamics
of the water resources, to monitor water quality, and to determine guidelines
for the rational development of water resources in the Project area (para
4.15).
Land Resources
3.04      Soils have a sandy texture in almost all of the Project area; from
the standpoint of depth, profile and permèability, soils are suitable for a
large range of vegetable crops. Characterized by an alkaline reaction and a
low content of nitrogen and phosphorus, they require an extensive and system-
atic fertilization program. Due to the light soil texture and agricultural
mispractices, problems of nematode dissemination have adversely affected most
of the project soils and contributed to a decrease in yields. Specific soil
disinfection measures would be introduced under the Project.
B. Land Use, Land Tenure and Population
Land Use
3.05      About one third of the Project area is cultivated in vegetables
and the remainder in cereals and forage with sizeable differences from one
province to another as shown in para. 3.01. Crop rotation is not systematic-
ally practiced. Livestock and milk production is relatively important in
all the Project area. Potatoes and tomatoes amount to 86% of the off-season
vegetable area. Inefficient agricultural techniques and obsolete varieties
result in low yields (30 to 35 t/ha for tomato, 15 t for potato) and poor
quality. Improvements in agricultural t`echniques have been introduced on a
limited scale: selected hybrid seeds, soil disinfection, adequate pest
control, and have proven successful. Over the last three years, about 140 ha
of greenhouses were also introduced through special loans and technical
assistance extended by OCE. Yields and quality of products under greenhouse
cultivation have been promising.



- il -
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.06      Most of the lands in the Project area are privately owned with the
exception of a few state owned lands in the Casablanca area. About 83% of
private lands is cultivated by the owners and the remaining 17% by tenants.
The following table shows the land tenure breakdown:
0-5 ha    5-10 ha    10-20 ha    Over 20 ha    Total
Farms (%)         55.2       25.4         13.4          6.0         100
Area (Z)          16.0       22.4         20.0        41.6          100
About 11,100 farms of which 50% are located in the Agadir region, are totally
or partly devoted to off-season vegetables.  The distribution of land of
off-season vegetable farms is considerably less skewed than overall land
distribution. Off-season vegetables are mainly grown on small farms as small
farmers tend to specialize in labor intensive off-season vegetables. On large
farms, the portion of land cropped with vegetables is normally relatively
small, because of managerial problems, labor requirements and insufficient
water availability.
Population
3.07      The Project area is heavily populated, with about 550,000 inhabit-
ants living in rural zones. The 11,000 vegetable growers families, represent
about 60,000 persons. With a few exceptions, all the vegetable grower families
live above the absolute poverty level.
C. Agricultural Supporting Services
The Ministry of Agriculture (MARA)
3.08      MARA is represented in the Project area by its five Provincial
Agricultural Directorates, two Irrigation Offices (Doukkala and Souss/Massa)
and seven Development Centers. Nine agriculturalists and 32 extension agents
are covering the whole Project area. MARA's extension and research efforts
have been hampered by inadequate organization and a lack of specialized staff,
as MARA's activities in vegetable producing regions cover all agricultural
production and are not specifically directed to the horticulture subsector.
However, MARA has succeeded in creating a large number of cooperatives and
precooperative associations grouping at least seven members and continues to
assist them efficiently.
OCE/SASMA 1/
3.09      At the production level, OCE and its affiliated company SASMA, have
become increasingly involved in extension and research. About 40 OCE/SASMA
1/   Societe Agricole de Services au Maroc.



- 12 -
extension agents are employed in extension services in the Project area.
OCE/SASMA staff is specialized in vegetable production. In cooperation
vith the Agricultural Research Directorate (DRA), OCE/SASMA has undertaken
applied research in Dar Bouazza, a DRA station near Casablanca. Besides SASMA
is well equipped in laboratory material and has initiated a specific research
program on vegetables. In addition to its extension and research tasks, OCE
is the exclusive supplier of imported hybrid seeds and greenhouses. (Other
inputs are available through private wholesalers in all the Project area.)
CNCA _/
3.10      CNCA is the main Moroccan banking institution for agriculture.  It
was established in 1961 as an autonomous Government-owned institution. CNCA's
infrastructure includes its headquarters in Rabat, 29 regional banks (Caisses
Regionales de Credit Agricole, CRCAs) which lend to medium and large farmers
with an annual net income above US$1,900 and 91 local banks (Caisses Locales
de Credit Agricole, CLCAs) which lend to small farmers whose net income is
below US$1,900. CNCA, which has received four Bank loans, has been consis-
tently appraised by the Bank as an effective agricultural credit institution
having an efficient lending operation and an excellent repayment record.
The First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 433-MOR, February 1966) has been
audited by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) 2/ and OED's recommenda-
tions have been taken into account in the subsequent loans to CNCA. A com-
plete analysis of CNCA was recently sent to the Board. 3/ CNCA has increased
its interest rate in September 1977 and its present interest is 8.5% for
medium- and long-term loans to private farmers and 7% for newly created
Agrarian Reform Cooperatives. The rate of inflation in'Morocco has declined
from 12.5% in 1977 (9.1% in 1978) to an estimated 9% in 1979. Bank projec-
tions indicate a decline in the rate of inflation to 7% in 1980 rising to 8%
p.a. for the remainder of the Project period. As the average cost of CNCA
resources is estimated at 3.2%, the interest spread permits CNCA to generate
a small annual profit.
3.11      CNCA has six regional offices (CRCA) in the Project area.  About
1,700 farmers (15% of the total) have borrowed from CNCA. Medium-term credits
have been used primarily for purchase of farm machinery, irrigation equipment
and pumps. Most of the investments under the proposed Project would be
financed through CNCA long- and medium-term conventional loans. Shortage of
capital for short-term lending has led CNCA to establish ceilings which are
generally adequate to meet the production costs of traditional production
under open field conditions. The present ceilings, however, would cover only
10% to 20% of production costs if applied to the proposed techniques and would
1/   Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole.
2/   OED Report Agricultural Credit Programs.  Background Paper No. 4.
"Evaluation of the CNCA/IBRD Agricultural Credit Program in Morocco."
3/   "SAR Of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project," Report No. 2426-MOR,
April 30, 1979.



- 13 -
hamper modernization of cropping systems for small farmers. The Project would
attempt to resolve this issue (para 4.07). Present CNCA and CRCA staffing is
sufficient for project needs, as technical factors of the credit component
would be appraised by the technical extension agents (para 5.17).
Coordination Among Government Agencies
3.12      In the past, there has been a lack of coordination between MARA, OCE
and CNCA. This resulted in a dissipation of actions, inadequate programming
and control of production, and failure to efficiently modernize the off-season
vegetable sector. Agadir Province, however, has successfully established a
Regional Technical Committee composed of representatives of the three orga-
nizations, which has contributed to better coordination and stricter control
over production than in other provinces. Such committees would be established
under the Project both at the regional and central levels (paras 5.01-5.02).
Rural Institutions
3.13      Cooperatives.  Cooperatives and pre-cooperative associations are
numerous in the horticulture subsector: most of them have been created for
packing and grading purposes. In many cases their role has been extended
to common purchase of inputs and to investments for farm mechanization and
transport equipment which are not profitable or possible for a single farmer.
Strengthening the cooperative system and regrouping the smallest cooperatives
into more powerful units would be encouraged under the Project (para 4.10).
3.14      Farmers' Association.  The horticulture subsector is characterized
by a widely based farmers' association system. Most of the citrus growers are
grouped in a single association, ASPAM. Vegetable growers are grouped into
two associations, ASPRIM in the North and APPAS in the South. The farmers'
associations participate in the Board of Directors of SASMA and contribute to
its financing. The farmers' associations also participate in the OCE's Board
of Directors and contribute to decision-making on the amount and tariff of a
small "stabilizing" fund which is financed through a levy on exports. The
'stabilizing" fund is used to partly compensate farmers whose export products
have suffered a loss because of special circumstances such as strikes, trans-
port difficulties, etc.
D. Packing Stations and Export Facilities
Packing and Grading Stations
3.15      About 300 packing and grading stations are scattered in the Project
area. Most of them belong to cooperatives and work exclusively for their
members; others are owned by private enterprises. Private stations are
generally bigger than cooperative ones and well managed. The cooperatives'
main problems are their excessive number (which results in an excess of
brands), low capacity (below 1,000 t for 80% of them), poor management and
lack of equipment. As a result, their operation costs are high, and the



- 14 -
standardization and quality of products are insufficient. OCE initiated a
cooperative regrouping operation, which would be a component of the project
aiming at reducing the number of stations and strengthening their efficiency.
OCE Quality Control Facilities
3.16      In the past, quality control for export was located exclusively
in Casablanca and Agadir harbors causing excessive handling, high transporta-
tion costs back to the station for rejected goods, and lack of communication
between controllers and station operators. Therefore, OCE has recently
established, in leased quarters, five temporary quality control centers
located near the production and packing areas. Similar quality control
centers located as close as possible to the production and packing areas
should be further developed under the Project.
Harbor and Shipment Facilities
3.17      Exports are channeled through two harbors:  Casablanca and Agadir.
Casablanca has a special dock for horticultural products and a modern infra-
structure including roll-on roll-off equipment and refrigerated containers.
Agadir harbor is not adequately equipped to cope with increasing shipments,
and part of the on-going improvements would be financed under the project.
All fruit and vegetable carrying ships currently used by OCE for exports to
Europe are equipped for the loading and unloading of pallets and containers.
It will be necessary to ensure that domestic means of transportation keep
pace with the development of export tonnages under the Project.
E. Roads and Social Infrastructure
3.18      The Project area is connected to major cities and harbors by an
extensive network of primary and secondary roads. However, rural roads are
insufficient to cope with future Project needs in the El Jadida and Agadir
regions. The existing potable water facilities, as well as health and educa-
tion infrastructure, are among the best of the country. The main deficiency
in the Project area is the insufficient telephone network which hinders
communication between OCE, packing stations and quality control facilities.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Objectives
4.01      The Government has requested-Bank assistance for its Development
Plan for Vegetables (1979-1985), aiming at doubling vegetable exports through
a comprehensive modernization of the vegetable sector. The Project would
help Government in implementing the first phase of its Development Plan. Its
primary objective would be to increase the value of foreign exchange earnings



- 15 -
from agriculture by about 26% (US$85 million) by expanding production and
export of off-season vegetables. This objective is in line with Government
efforts to reduce its accumulated balance of payment deficits which are
affecting the overall performance of Moroccan economy.  A further major
objective would be employment creation at a low investment cost.
4.02      The Project objectives would be achieved mainly through changes in
agricultural techniques and the adoption of a new marketing system for off-
season vegetables. The Project would be limited to a four-year period and to
about 9,000 ha out of 18,000 ha now under off-season cultivation, because of
(i) the need to concentrate upon the high-value crops which have good export
prospects, thus excluding potato and vegetables produced for the local market;
and (ii) the need to match production to the potential demand of the external
market.
B. Project Description
4.03      The Project would include the following components:  (i) on-farm
development and working capital for vegetable production under both greenhouse
and open-field conditions; (ii) provision of equipment, facilities and person-
nel to improve existing agricultural services; (iii) construction and equip-
ment of packing and marketing facilities; (iv) improvement of feeder roads;
and (v) training, technical assistance and hydrogeological surveys.
On-Farm Investments
4.04      Greenhouses.  The greenhouse program would permit (i) earliness
and timing of production; (ii) high yields (more than two-fold that of open-
field); (iii) high rate of exportable quality; and (iv) reduction of climatic
risks. Production under greenhouse would be an essential element for OCE's
export strategy; it would permit OCE to enter market agreements with importers
(para 5.22) and to adjust the supply to the demand for vegetables. Based on
projections of farmers' requests for greenhouses and the potential demand of
the external market, the greenhouse component would cover about 1,000 ha in
four years. About 525 ha would be located in the Agadir region, which enjoys
the most favorable climatic conditions for a large range of vegetables; the
remaining area would be spread over El Jadida/Safi (325 ha), Casablanca (100
ha) and Kenitra/Rabat (50 ha). The cropping program under greenhouse, which
would aim at a large diversification of crops and could be adapted to the
market situation is expected to be the following:
Tomatoes                  450 ha
Peppers                   350 ha
Eggplants                   75 ha
Melons                      75 ha
Green beans                 50 ha
At full development (year 7) production under greenhouses would represent
about 40% of the incremental vegetable production and about 15% of the total
production for export.



_ 16 -
4.05      The greenhouses would be designed for easy assembling, proper
ventilation, and high wind resistance. Because of mild winter temperatures
ln all of the Project area, no heating would be needed. A typical greenhouse
vould be 7 to 9 m wide and 50 to 70 m long; it would have a galvanized steel
tube framevork and would be covered with polyethylene foil. It would be
equipped with a hand-operated ridge ventilation system.  Drip irrigation
squipment is recommended for high cropping density, efficient use of scarce
water resources and reduction of soil-born diseases. Approximately half of
the greenhouses would be equipped with drip irrigation during the four-year
Project.  The Project would also finance soil disinfection and windbreaks
as well as specially adapted greenhouses for nurseries (10 ha) equipped with
an automatic ventilation, a shading system and a mist watering. These nursery
greenhouses would produce seedlings for about 250 ha.
4.06      Open-field.  In open-field the Project would cover about 8,000 ha
and would involve most of the farmers exporting off-season vegetables. It
would help expand new agricultural techniques such as high-yield hybrid varie-
ties  soil disinfection, adequate fertilization and pest control.  Investments
would include the following components:  (i) agricultural equipment, mainly
eprayers and motocultivators; and (ii) improvement of the water distribution
system through the installation of plastic pipes on about 4,000 ha.
4.07      Short-Term Credit.  CNCA lending norms for short-term credit are
based on present production costs for the production of in-season vegetables
for the local market, but are not adapted to the intensive production of
off-season export vegetables (para 3.11). The proposed cropping techniques
under the Project would increase annual production costs fourfold for tomatoes
and sevenfold for peppers under greenhouses and would triple these costs in
opanfield operation. CNCA with its limited resources, spread over the whole
agriculture sector, would not be able to sustain alone a significant part of
2,he short-term production costs required by the Project. For this reason the
Dank would assist by providing about 50% of the yearly incremental short-term
credit requirements under the Project. This would leave the bulk of the
fînancing to CNCA and the farmers (more than 60%). Most of this increase in
$hort-term credit requirements would take place during the implementation
perîod of the Project and would stabilize thereafter.
A rîcultural Services and Farmers Cooperatives
4o08      Extension vould be carried out both by MARA and OCE/SASMA (paras.
505-5.07) through twelve Development Centers of which seven already exist
and five would be constructed under the Project.  Their location has been
oelected to cover the whole Project area (map). The Project would provide
necessary office space for the five new Development Centers as well as hous-
ing, vehicles and vehicle operating expenses for 32 MARA extension agents.
Zouaing and vehicles would not be financed for OCE/SASMA agents since they
are part of employment conditions with OCE. Assurances were obtained during
aegotiations that OCE/SASMA would provide adequate transportation facilities
and operating expenses to its agents.



-17 -
4.09      Research, Training, Demonstration.  Three research, training and
demonstration centers would be established in Casablanca, El Jadida and
Agadir regions. The Project would provide office, laboratory and storage
space, housing, agricultural equipment, vehicles, a research and training
budget and salaries for six agriculturalists, nine agents and 90 workers.
Programs to be developed would include applied research both in greenhouses
and in openfield (paras 5.08 -5.13). About a 0.8 ha greenhouse would be
provided at each center for applied research, training and demonstration
purposes.
4.10      Cooperatives.  Regrouping small service cooperatives into bigger
intercooperative units in order to strengthen and enlarge their activities
would be carried on under the Project. Investments for ten intercooperatives
would include office space, storage for agricultural equipment, workshop and
transportation facilities. One milk collecting center would also be con-
structed in each of the new intercooperative units. Many of the vegetable
farmers are also milk producers as they have livestock and produce irrigated
fodder. Intercooperatives, as well as about 100 existing cooperatives are
expected to purchase agricultural equipment through credit available under
the Bank CNCA IV Project. Some cooperatives are also expected to purchase
nursery greenhouses to produce their seedlings.
Marketing Services
4.11      Packing and Grading Stations.  Regrouping small cooperative packing
stations into larger and more efficient units would be developed under the
Project: ten new stations with a 2,500 capacity each would be constructed.
They would include two packing lines each and loading and transport equipment.
They would be suitable for multi-produce use. As a result, about 25 outdated
and inefficient stations would be closed and transformed into storage space.
About 30 other existing stations would be enlarged and equipped to process
a minimum of 2,500 t each; investments for these stations would include
replacement of packing lines and loading equipment. Two stations with a
5,000-ton capacity would also be constructed by OCE. These two stations would
serve small farmers who, because of their large number and small production
are not able to join in a cooperative and who now often are forced to sell
their produce ungraded and at very low prices to middlemen.
4.12      Quality Control Facilities.  Twelve new quality control stations
would be installed close to the production and packing areas. Five of these
would replace the existing temporary stations which have been established in
leased buildings (para 3.16). The Project would provide buildings, housing
for 24 OCE agents, forklifts and other loading equipment, vehicles, and
telephone connections.
4.13      Port Storage Facilities.  Storage facilities covering about 6,000 m2
would be constructed in the port of Agadir to cope with increasing vegetable
production of the Souss-Massa Region.



- 18 -
4.14      Roads.  In order to improve communication and to facilitate the
movement of inputs and crops, the Project would provide for the rehabilitation
of existing and the construction of new access roads as follows:
Rehabilitation   Construction   Total
_________------(km) ------------
Oualidia (El Jadida
Province)                       25               25           50
Souss (Agadir Province)          100              100          200
Total                       125              125          250
Funds to equip the maintenance teams would also be provided under the Project.
It is estimated that about three dump trucks, two graders, two compactors and
two bulldozers would be needed.
4.15      Hydrogeological Surveys.  A study on water resources in the Project
area would be carried out through drilling of wells, pumping tests, stream
gauging of rivers and water salinity monitoring.
4.16      Technical Assistance.  The innovative character of production of
seedlings under greenhouse as well as the need for training extension agents
and farmers in new cropping techniques would require consulting services.
About 74 man-months of high level vegetable specialists to be attached to
the Research, Demonstration and Training Centers would be provided under the
Project. A provision of 12 man-months would also be made for specific agri-
cultural problems, as well as for marketing, monitoring and evaluation aspects.
C. Cost Estimates
4.17      Total Project costs for the four-year implementation period, includ-
ing establishment costs, taxes, duties and contingencies are estimated at
DH 518.4 million (US$129.6 million), of which 52% or US$67.4 million is
foreign exchange. Construction costs are based on quantity and unit price
estimates from the Ministry of Agriculture, OCE and the Ministry of Equip-
ment. Unit prices are in line with January 1979 bid prices for similar
work. Prices for farm equipment and inputs are the ones currently practiced
in the Project area. The cost of greenhouses and of the packing stations
is based on bids received from suppliers in January 1979. Costs include
duties and taxes equal to 18% for civil works, 20% for equipment and 15%
for farm inputs. No taxes have been taken into account for greenhouses as
they are exempt of all taxes by Government decree. Total taxes and duties
are estimated at DH 63.0 million (US$15.8 million).  Physical contingencies
are included in the costs: 10% for all equipment, civil works and for on-farm
investments, 5% for greenhouses. The cost of consultant services, including
support services, has been estimated at US$6,600 per month for long-term



- 19 -
consultants and US$8,000 for short-term consultants. Projected average price
inflation at 9% per annum in 1979, and 8% per annum thereafter, has been
included in project cost estimates. Overall contingencies would amount
to 29% of the base costs. Cost estimates including establishment costs are
summarized in the following table and shown in detail in Annex 1, Table 1.
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  F.E.
Component                     -----(DH Million)----  ---(US$ Million)---   %
Onfarm investments
Greenhouse production           52.3   108.5   160.8   13.0    27.3    40.3   68
Openfield production            17.1    23.6    40.7    4.3        5.8    10.1   57
Total                              69.4   132.1   201.5   17.3    33.1    50.4   66
Cooperative storage &
packing stations                10.9      5.3    16.2    2.6       1.3      3.9   33
Incremental production costs
Greenhouse                    10.0      8.2    18.2    2.5       2.1      4.6   45
Openfield                     49.9    40.8    90.7   12.5    10.2    22.7   45
Total                              59.9    49.0   108.9   15.0    12.3    27.3   45
Other marketing facilities
OCE small producer packing
stations                       2.3      1.3      3.6    0.6      0.3      0.9   35
OCE quality control stations  12.8        3.2    16.0    3.2       0.8      4.0   20
Storage facilities at port       2.7      0.9      3.6    0.7      0.2      0.9   25
Total                              17.8     5.4    23.2    4.5       1.3      5.8   22
Agricultural support services
Extension services              16.4      5.6    22.0    4.1       1.4      5.5   25
Research, training,
demonstration                  5.6      1.0      6.7    1.4      0.9      1.6   23
Seedling production and
cooperative infrastructure   2.4        1.4      3.8    0.6      0.4      1.0   40
Total                              24.4     8.0    32.5    6.1       2.0      8.1   25
Feeder roads                        9.0     4.0    13.0    2.3        1.0     3.3   30
Technical assistance and
studies                          2.0      3.2      5.2    0.5      0.8      1.3   65
TOTAL BASE COST                   193.4   207.1   400.5   48.3    51.8   100.1   52
Physical contingencies              8.3     8.9    17.2    2.0       2.3      4.3   52
Price contingencies               47.5    53.2   100.7   11.9    13.3    25.2   52
GRAND TOTAL /a                   249.2   269.2   518.4   62.2    67.4   129.6   52
/a   Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 20 -
D. Financing
4.18      The proposed Bank loan bf US$58 million would be to the Government
of the Kingdom of Morocco. The detailed financing plan for the different
project components would be as follows:
Bene-       Govern-
Item                IBRD    OCE    CNCA    ficiaries        ment       Total
----------------------(US$ Miî`lion)-----------------
On farm investments       34.6       -    11.4       12.3          7.7        66.0
Storage and
packing station          2.8      -      1.8        1.8            -         6.4
Incremental short-term
production costs        12.6      -    12.6         8.4            -        33.6
OCE nursery green-
houses, packing and
control stations         2.8    3.8        -          -            -         6.6
Storage facilities
at port                  0.4      -        -          -          0.6         1.0
Agriculture
supporting services    2.0    2.3          -          -          5.7        10.0
Feeder roads               2.0       -       -          -          2.4         4.4
Technical assistance
and hydrogeological
survey                   0.8     _         -          -          0.8         1.6
TOTAL                   58.0    6.1    25.8        22.5         17.2       129.6
4.19       The Bank loan would finance about 51% of the total Project cost net
of taxes (86% of the foreign exchange component).  Based on the life of the
Project, the Bank loan would be for 15 years including 4 years of grace at the
interest rate prevailing when the loan is presented to the Board. US$4.4 mil-
lion of the loan would be used by the Ministry of Agriculture for the research
training and extension, the roads and the technical assistance components;
US$0.8 million would be used by the Ministry of Equipment for the construction
of storage facilities in the port of Agadir and hydrogeological surveys.
Governnent would on-lend US$50.0 million to CNCA for long- and medium-term and
incremental short-term credit requirements. US$2.8 million would be on-lent
to OCE for the control stations, the two small producer stations and a part of
the nursery greenhouses. Greenhouses would be prefinanced and procured by OCE
on behalf of the farmers (para 4.21). Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions to this effect. The Government loan to CNCA would be for 14 years
including 2 years of grace at the same interest rate as that of the Bank to
Government. The Government loan to OCE would be for 14 years including 2
years of grace at 9% interest rate. The remaining Project costs (US$71.6
million) would be financed by CNCA (US$25.8 million), OCE (US$6.1 million),
r



- 21 -
the Government (US$17.2 million) and the beneficiaries (US$22.5 million). The
Government would carry the foreign exchange risks on the loan and would
guarantee debt service. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with OCE and CNCA on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1979.
E. Implementation Schedule
4.20      Project works would be implemented over four years from September
1979 to August 1983. Construction of greenhouses would be completed on about
12% of the total area in 1979, 20% in 1980, 30% in 1981 and 38% in 1982.  In
open-field, new technical packages would be introduced at a rate of about
2,000 ha p.a. Estimated schedule of expenditures is summarized below and
detailed in Annex 1, Table 1.
Expenditures         1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Annual                19.4       28.3       36.9        45.0
Cumulative            19.4       47.7       84.6       129.6
F. Procurement
4.21      Contracts for farm input (improved seed, fertilizer and pesticide)
and farm equipment and machinery totalling about US$14.0 million would not be
suitable for bulk procurement as agricultural subborrowers would purchase
them individually throughout the project period from well established local or
foreign commercial channels. Suppliers of these goods are numerous in Morocco,
competition is keen and prices are competitive. For greenhouses (about US$46
million) well established commercial channels do not exist in Morocco. To
ensure standardization of equipment, lower prices and timely supplies, OCE
which prefinances this equipment (para 4.19) would procure them through inter-
national competition in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
OCE will submit to the Bank, for its prior review, tender documents, detailed
description of the advertising procedures and detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received.
4.22      Housing, buildings, vehicles and equipment for supporting services,
as well as construction and rehabilitation of dirt roads, would be procured
by the Ministry of Agriculture. These contracts, totalling about US$9.0
million would involve a large number of amall contracts that would be handled
through local procedures already determined to be satisfactory to the Bank.
These items would not be suitable for ICB because of the phasing that they
require and their dispersion in the Project area. For contracts procured
under local procedures, the Project agency concerned will furnish the Bank,
promptly after execution, two conformed copies of its contracts together with
the analysis of the respective bids received and the recommendations for award.



- 22 -
4.23      Contracts for construction and equipment of two packing stations
for small farmers, of quality control centers, storage facilities and hydro-
geological investigations totalling about US$8.6 million equivalent would be
procured by OCE or the Ministry of Equipment as the case may be. These
contracts when related to civil works exceeding the equivalent of US$300,000
or when related to equipment and exceeding US$150,000 would be procured
following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Each individual contract for civil works estimated to
cost less than US$300,000 equivalent and each individual contract for equip-
ment estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent may be awarded through
local competitive bidding already determined to be acceptable to the Bank
provided that the aggregate amount of all contracts for equipment so awarded
would not exceed the equivalent of US$1,200,000.
4.24      Contracts for civil works and equipment of cooperative packing
stations totaling US$6.4 million to be financed by CNCA would be procured by
cooperatives through established commercial channels provided that (i) the
cost of each individual contract for civil works and equipment does not exceed
US$300,000 and US$150,000 respectively or (ii) the investment cost does not
exceed the equivalent of US$1,250,000. Goods and works in excess of the
amounts specified above would be procured following ICB procedures according
ta Bank guidelines.
4.25      The contracts for civil works and equipment would be of size to
enable manufacturers and contractors to bid for individual contracts or for
a group of similar contracts, at their ôption. Assurances were ôbtained at
negotiations that the above procurement`procedures would be followed.
G. Disbursements
4.26      The Project implementation period would be four years (September
1979-August 1983) and the Bank loan would be disbursed in about 4-1/2 years as
follows:



- 23 -
Category                           Amount         Disbursement Percentage
(US$ million)
(a)  Civil works and equipment                 4.0          45% of total expenditure
for research and supporting
services provided by MARA
and for the construction and
maintenance of roads
(b)  Civil works and equipment for             2.8          45% of total expenditure
quality control stations,
packing stations and nursery
greenhouses
(c)  Civil works for port storage              0.4          45% of total expenditure
(d)  Hydrogeological surveys                   0,4          5Q% of total expenditure
(e)  Technical assistance                      0.4          45% of total expenditure
(f)  Greenhouses and drip irrigation          37.4          75% of subloan actually
Open-field investments                                disbursed by CNCA
Medium-term investments
Cooperative packing stations
(g)  Farm inputs                              12.6          50% of annual increments
of subloan actually dis-
bursed by CNCA.
TOTAL                              58.0
For the credit component the Bank would reimburse CNCA against certified
statements of expenditures. CNCA employs suitable accounting procedures and
is audited annually (para 5.26). Disbursements for civil works and equipment
for research and extension, quality control and small producer packing stations,
roads and port storage, as well as for studies and consultants, would be made
after receipt of full documentation. An estimated schedule of disbursements
is summarized below and is detailed in Annex 1, Table 2.
Disbursements          1979   1980   1981   1982   1983    1984
--------------(US$ million)-----------
Annual                   2      7      13      19      15        2
Cumulative               2      9      22      41      56      58



- 24 -
H. Environmental Effect
4.27      Intensive production of vegetables would necessitate considerably
greater use of agro-chemicals. The plastic covers on the greenhouses, which
last for about two years, would be burned completely at the end of their
useful lives under strict Government guidance. The extension agents would
assure that plant protection chemicals be handled properly and that the
required protection devices (masks, etc.) be available and used. The Pro-
vincial Technical Committees would monitor the use of chemicals so as to
detect and remedy any harmful effects to beneficial insects, build-up of
resistance in pest population and possible contamination of water supplies and
vegetables. The project area is free of malaria and the existing irrigation
vorks would not promote mosquito breeding or spread malaria.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01        At the national level the Ministry of Agriculture would have pri-
mary responsibility for the project. Its Agricultural Development Directorate
(DMV) would be responsible for organizing and supporting farmers' cooperatives,
its Research Directorate (DRA) agricultural research and its Rural Engineer-
ing Directorate (DE) for roads improvement and construction. CNCA would be
responsible for the credit program. OCE would have primary responsibility for
marketing activities, control of packing stations, purchase and establishment
of greenhouses, technical support to farmers, and for the production of
seedlings. The Ministry of Equipment would be in charge of construction at
the port and hydrogeological investigations. Overall coordination of the
Project would be assured by a National Coordinating Committee including the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Equipment, OCE and CNCA. It would
be responsible for the definition of project strategy and for the coordination
and monitoring of project activities at the national level. The National
Coordinating Committee would determine production targets for each region
according to market prospects. The committee would meet as necessary but at
least once every six months to review Project activities. Agreement was
reached that the National Coordination Committee with terms of reference,
povers and membership satisfactory to the Bank would be established by
December 31, 1979.
5.02        In each Region, Regional technical committees would be created
similar to the committee already existing in Agadir. Each committee would meet
monthly, and be composed of the Provincial Director of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, (and the Director of the Irrigation Office in El Jadida Province) as well
as Provincial Representatives of OCE, SASMA and CNCA. The committee chairman
would be either the OCE's or the Ministry of Agriculture's representative. The
Regional committees would be responsible for the execution of the program at
the provincial level. At the beginning of each season they would establish



- 25 -
production targets, quality requirements, and schedule delivery for each crop
according to production targets determined at the Central level. They would
organize the extension work, determine seed and other input requirements,
organize their supply, and monitor credit needs. Within the general guide-
lines of the National Committee, the Regional committee would also establish
and organize the research and training program for the region. During the
production campaign the Regional committee would monitor Project execution
and, at its monthly meeting revise production targets and determine the exten-
sion and marketing program for the coming months. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Regional technical committees composed of representatives of
MARA, OCE and CNCA would be established in each Region by December 31, 1979.
B. Agricultural Supporting Services
Extension
5.03        Extension services would have two interrelated objectives:  (a) to
group small farmers into cooperatives and to assist them in their operations,
and (b) to provide farmers with technical advice. Extension works would be
coordinated through the 12 Development Centers to be established under the
Project.
5.04        The Organization of Farmers.  The Ministry of Agriculture would be
responsible for organizing farmers into extension units in the form of coop-
eratives or pre-cooperatives. It is expected that about 5,000 small farmers
would be grouped into about 625 extension groups of about 8 farmers each and
would be supported by 32 extension agents with one extension agent for 20
cooperatives. The extension agents would help the members of cooperatives
establish their cropping pattern, organize their supply of inputs and equip-
ment and fill out credit applications and marketing contracts with OCE. MARA
would also continue to help cooperatives manage their grading and packing
stations and maintain a proper accounting system (para 3.08). It would be
responsible for regrouping them and for providing them with the necessary
infrastructure and milk collection centers (para. 4.10).
5.05        Technical Extension.  Because of the relationship between market-
ing and production and the highly specialized technical advice required, OCE/
SASMA would be responsible for technical extension to farmers in general,
and for the implementation of greenhouses in particular.  The main technical
packages to be introduced in the project area include: soil disinfection,
improved seeds, seedbed preparation, pest control, appropriate irrigation and
fertilization. OCE/SASMA's technical extension service would be staffed with
85 technical advisors and ten supervisors. The 1,000 ha greenhouse program
would require 53 technical advisors serving about 500 cooperatives and 400
individuals totalling about 4,400 farmers. Each technical advisor would serve
15 small farmer cooperatives or 20 individuals. This relatively dense cover-
age (about one advisor per 20 ha greenhouse) is considered necessary as pro-
duction under greenhouse is a new technique requiring specialized technical
knowledge. In openfield, one advisor would serve about 250 ha, comprising
20 individuals and 20 cooperatives or about 180 farmers.



- 26 -
5.06        The technical advisors would devote ail their time exclusively to
professional agricultural extension work as MARA would handle the organization
of farmers, the supply of inputs, etc. (para 5.04). Each technical advisor
would visit the same group of growers twice a-month on a fixed day known to
both farmers and supervisors. During each visit the technical advisor would
demonstrate his recommendations, check progress and observe any technical
problems the farmers may be having. In case of virulent pest attack he
would notify his superior for immediate action. He would also inform his
supervisor about climatic or other conditions which could affect the timing,
quality or quantity of production. The technical advisors would attend
one-day training sessions every fortnight at the Research and Demonstration
Centers where they would review the three or four most important issues for
the forthcoming one or two weeks of the crop season. The 45 additional
technical advisors required under the Project would be graduates of the four
existing horticultural schools. Before starting their job, they would be
adequately trained both in the field and at a Research, Demonstration and
Training Center.
5.07         Supervisors would provide technical support to 9-10 technical
advisors. The supervisors would spend eight days each fortnight in the
field assisting technical advisors. Their visits would be prescheduled and
timed so that over a period of one month each supervisor could see each of
his technical advisors. The supervisors would assure the close link required
between marketing and production: they would advise the farmers about market-
ing prospects and requirements, and inform OCE, through the Regional Commit-
tees about the likely quantity, quality and timing of the production in their
area.  The supervisors, like the technica'l advisors, would attend periodic
training sessions at the Research and Demonstration Center.
Research, Demonstration and Training.
5.08      Research, demonstration and training would be carried out in
close cooperation between the research and extension services of MARA, OCE
and SASMA on three existing research stations and three demonstration and
training centers to be established in their vicinity.
5.09        The Applied Research Program would be adapted to a specific
region. It would include greenhouse and open-field works and would be
defined by the Regional technical committees, thus ensuring that it
reflects the concerns of the farmers and responds to marketing require-
ments. A research and extension committee, composed of the researcher,
technical supervisors and OCE representatives would evaluate the research
results, translate them into recommendations for t:he extension service and
develop a demonstration program. The field trials, executed by the tech-
nical advisors in close collaboration with the researchers from the three
stations, would be established in the farmers' fields and used to demon-
strate new techniques and varieties.
5.10        Seedling Production.  OCE and its technical advisors would be
responsible for initiating a seedling production program under nursery



- 27 -
greenhouses (about 3 ha). The greenhouses would be used (i) to prepare the
seedlings to be sold to small farmers' cooperatives which are not equipped
with adequate seedbed installation, and (ii) to test the economics of pro-
ducing seedlings in central nurseries and to train members of cooperatives
that produce se-odlings (para 4.10).
5.11        Demonstration and Training.  In each station an open-field plot
and 1/2 ha of greenhouse would'be installed for demonstration purposes.
Each farmer, or lead farmer in the case of a cooperative, who requested a
greenhouse would attend a five day training session on the basic principles
of greenhouse production. For open-field techniques, a lead farmer, selected
by the cooperative members, would be trained on the demonstration plots. The
lead farmer should be willing to try out recommended practices in his fields
and be prepared to pass his knowledge on to the other members of the coopera-
tive.   The Research, Demonstration and Training Centers would also train the
technical extension advisors in bi-monthly training sessons. Training would
be practical and goal oriented. Supervisors would participate in those ses-
sions. In addition, they would attend a one-week course, four times a year
(one before each crop season, two during the production period and one
evaluation session at the end of this period).
5.12        The three Research, Demonstration and Training Centers would
be staffed by six agriculturalists, nine assistants and ninety workers to
be provided by MARA's Research Directorate and by OCE. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the management staffing, operation, budget and
program of the Research, Demonstration and Training Centers would be accept-
able to the Bank. These programs and staffing for 1980 would be prepared
by MARA in agreement with OCE not later than December 31, 1979. For the
following years the National Coordination Committee would prepare operation
budgets and programs.
5.13        Technical Assistance.  Each station would be entitled to the ser-
vices of a horticulturalist, specialized in research and training. Each of
the three horticulturalists would be assigned a qualified counterpart to
assist in planning and implementing the research and training program. Within
three months of assuming their duties, the horticulturalists would develop
an adaptive research program on the basis of the recommendations of the
Regional technical committees. Within six months they would have initiated
a training program for farmers, technical extension agents and supervisors.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the horticulturalists would be
employed no later than December 31, 1980 with qualifications and terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
C. Lending Terms and Procedures
5.14        CNCA's existing lending procedures, interest rates and loan con-
ditions are generally adequate (para. 3.10) and would be maintained with the
changes outlined below.



5.15        The Financing of Greenhouses.  Under present conditions CNCA
finances 70% of the investment costs of greenhouses. Past experience has
shotn that only large farmers are able and willing to finance 30% of the
initial greenhouse investment. Those farmers would continue to be financed
according to existing CNCA credit procedures. Because of the risks, high
technicity and capital required, small and medium farmers are neither willing
nor able to invest in greenhouses at the required implementation rate on
existing financial terms. Therefore, the Moroccan Government has enacted
that, for the period of the Project, farmers would have the benefit of a
prcnotional financing of 90% of the greenhouse investment as follows:  (a)
a loan of 70% of the investment by CNCA at 8.5% interest for a duration of
7 years with a grace period of 2 years; and (b) an additional loan from the
Treasury, administered by CNCA, of 20% of the investment at 6% interest and to
be recovered by CNCA during the first two years of the loan. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would make available to CNCA Treasury
funds under an agreement to be entered into not later than January 31, 1980.
En order to spread Project benefits to as many farmers as possible, agreement
UaS reached at negotiations that (i) the additional Treasury loan would be
limited to 2 ha greenhouse per family, and (ii) about 60% of the Treasury
fuEds would be set aside for the financing of greenhouses to farmers or
cooperative members who would not own more than 1/2 hectare of greenhouses.
Zhese credit conditions would be reviewed annually and could be modified with
the Bank's agreement according to Project experience.
5016        Short-term Credit.  Under the Project, farmers' production costs
would increase substantially and their credit requirements would exceed CNCA's
current lending ceilings (para. 3.11). CNCA agreed to raise its lending
ceilings up to 75% of the real production co0ts provided the below mentioned
loan procedures are respected. Short-term credit financing would be at CNCA's
regular loan conditions at an interest rate of 8.5%.
5.17        Credit Procedures.  To benefit from these special financial
arrangements for greenhouse investments and/or short-term credit, the farmers
would have to meet the following requirements: (i) CNCA's normal credit-
worthiness criteria; and (ii) technical criteria set by OCE, including commit-
ment from the farmer to follow cropping techniques as instructed by the
Project's extension service. For loans to cooperatives, collective commitment
from the cooperative members would be required. The farmer, before submitting
his credit application to CNCA for a regular assessment by the credit institu-
tion would obtain a certification from OCE stating (i) that the prospective
subborrower is a farmer in the Project area; (ii) that he is considered
capable of executing the proposed investment in conformity with the tentative
export program for off-season vegetables; (iii) that he accepts to follow the
technical advice provided under the Project; and (iv) the status of his
commitments vis-a-vis OCE.  If the farmer's credit application is accepted by
CNCA and if the farmer is eligible for the additional Treasury loan (para
5.15), CNCA would complement its own loan with the 20% Treasury loan and
finance up to 90% of the total greenhouse investment. OCE would send all



- 29 -
the farmer's receipts to his account at CNCA and CNCA would then withhold
interest and repayment of debts on a pro rata basis previously agreed upon
with the farmer. All other on-farm investments (irrigation, plastic, soil
disinfection) and investments for packing stations and nursery greenhouses
would be financed at existing interest rates and according to the general
lending procedures of CNCA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
lending terms and conditions for sub-borrowers would be as above.
D. Marketing Organization and Strategy
General
5.18        OCE's marketing problems (para. 2.21) are due to its inability
to influence either production or demand of off-season vegetables. The
project would permit OCE to manage demand and supply rather than to be sub-
mitted to their consequences. This would be achieved through (i) OCE's
increased involvement in extension; (ii) a better information flow of market-
ing information to producers; (iii) closer collaboration between farmers
and OCE for packing and quality control; and (iv) closer contact with EEC
import demand by a reorganization of the marketing structure.
5.19        Planning Production for Exports.  Based on its marketing experience,
its marketing contracts and information provided by the panels of importers
yet to be organized, (para. 5.22) OCE would establish national and regional
production targets. Through the National and Regional Coordination Committees
the national targets would be translated into production plans for each farmer
or farmers' cooperative. OCE's direct involvement in technical extension
would provide it with advance information of the evolution of production, so
that it can plan the marketing of the product. Adaptation of production to
market requirements and regularity of supply would be assured through the
following means:
(a)   The OCE visa required to obtain credit (para 5.17) would be
provided only if the farmers' cropping pattern is in line
with the production planning for each region.
(b)   The greenilouse program and its effect on the regularity of
supplies in terms of quantity, quality and timing would allow
OCE to carefully plan its marketing strategy and to enter into
export agreements with European importers who wish to have
regular and assured supplies; and
(c)   OCE would enter into production contracts with farmers for
those products for which it has an assured market in Europe.
The production contracts would guarantee a minimum price
to the grower. The grower would commit himself to respect
the agreed upon cropping pattern, timetable and OCE's tech-
nical advice.



- 30 -
5.20        Improvement of Packing and Quality Control.  Because of an in-
adequate packing infrastructure (para. 3.15) OCE is revising the conditions
under which it delivers an operation permit. The new regulations would re-
quire packing stations to possess an adequate infrastructure and to process
a minimum of produce. Based on an inventory of existing facilities OCE has
established a development program consisting of (i) improving existing viable
packing stations; and (ii) regrouping small and inefficient stations into
larger units. Part of these investments would be financed under this project
(para 4.11) through CNCA's long-term conventional loans. In addition, OCE's
policy is to develop packing stations for small producers (para 4.11). Two
of these new stations would be constructed under the Project. After an initial
two-year period, these stations are expected to be transferred to newly created
cooperatives. In order to apply its new policy, OCE has created a Division
responsible for packing stations. A financial and technical feasibility study
for the two small producer's stations has been presented by OCE and approved
by the Bank. Assurances were obtained that the Bank would receive for approval
the two first CNCA loan proposals for regrouping packing stations.
5.21      The decentralization of OCE's quality control (para. 4.12) would
permit a closer contact between producers, packing stations and controllers,
a better inspection of packing and grading practices and reduced handling
and transportion costs. Since the controller of each exported lot is clearly
identified, fraud can be traced and the risk of collusion between the packing
station and the controller is minimized.
5.22      Reorganization of the Marketing Structure.  As the prese'nt marketing
channels are not adapted to off-season vegetables (para. 2.21), the marketing
structure for off-season vegetables would be separated from those of citrus
fruit. The system of dockside auction sales would gradually be abandoned in
favor of a'specialized panel of importers-distributors operating as close as
possible to the final buyer. The distribution network would include a panel
of about ten importers-distributors in the major French markets. The panel
members would receive reasonable renumeration (about 8%) and enjoy exclusive
sales within their quotas determined at the beginning of each season and
revised each year according to the results and prices obtained by OCE during
the preceeding season. The new marketing structure would require a vigorous
programming of exports and constant reciprocal information between the panel
and OCE about the status of production and the development of demand.
5.23      To avoid disruption of the existing commercial network the reform
would be introduced gradually as follows:
(a)  a Panel of importers would be created by October 31, 1979.
By that time OCE would submit to the Panel a program of
exports and a schedule of deliveries for the season 1979/80.
The program would be limited to the most fragile and profit-
able produce, in particular, strawberries, greenbeans, peppers,
eggplants, melons and parts of the tomato production.



- 31 -
(b) by November of each following year, OCE would have submitted
a program of exports and a schedule of deliveries for the
upcoming season. According to the experience obtained
during the preceding season, ecport arrangements would be
modified and the program of exports expanded.
The Bank and 0CE have agreed on the marketing principles (described in para.
5.22 above) and assurances were obtained that 0CE would establish annually, in
concurrence with the Bank, an implementation program for the new marketing
organization.
5.24      In addition to this new marketing system 0CE would explore and test
markets both in other countries and for other products. Funds for short-term
consultancy for a marketing expert are included in the Project.
E. Construction and Maintenance of Roads
5.25      The Rural Engineering Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
would be responsible for the construction and maintenance of the proposed dirt
roads. In El Jadida, the Provincial Agricultural Directorate would execute
the required works, while in Agadir the roads would be under the jurisdiction
of the Office of Souss-Massa.
F. Accounts and Audits
5.26      CNCA, which receives 86% of the Bank loan has a satisfactory account-
ing organization, and audit arrangements under previous Bank loans have been
satisfactory. Assurances were obtained that CNCA continue to have its accounts
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In addition the state-
ment of expenditures submitted to the Bank in application for loan disbursement
would be audited by the same auditors to ensure that actual CNCA expenditures
under the Project are consistent with the statements of expenditures to the
Bank. The auditors annual report and the audit of the statement of expenditures
would be sent to the Bank within five months of the end of each fiscal year.
The Government agencies responsible for Project implementation and 0CE maintain
budgets and accounts which are audited by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry
of Finance would be considered an acceptable independent auditor under the
present Project. Assurances were obtained that (i) each government department
participating in the Project would maintain separate accounts for the Project
work for which it is responsible; and (ii) 0CE would furnish to the Bank
certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited and
the annual report of its Board of Directors approving such statements.



- 32 -
G. Progess Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.27        The Project's financial and export results would be monitored by
OCE. OCE possesses a computerized information system that provides up-to-
date information on export results and on financial accounts for the packing
atations. The Project would provide short-term consultancy services to help
OCE to fully utilize the analytical possibilities of the present information
system. On-farm project implementation would be monitored through CNCA's
credit disbursements (number of credits for greenhouses, soil disinfection,
purchase of seeds, irrigation improvement, cooperatives, packing stations,
etc.). The creation of farmers' cooperatives, the evolution of cropping
patterns, agricultural practices and yield estimates would be monitored by
the extension service. The Regional technical committees would analyze and
evaluate this information and the reports of CNCA, and use the field experi-
ence to adapt the regional program. Consultancy services would be provided
under the Project for setting up a proper management information system. The
Regional technical committees would send semestrial progress reports to the
National Committee. CNCA and OCE would submit separate quarterly reports
summarizing progress in lending under the Project, in the construction of
physical facilities, in the procurement of equipment and in the reorganization
of the marketing structure. The detailed information would be retained by the
National Committee and would be made available for inspection by Bank missions.
Summaries and analysis of the information, prepared in accordance with mutually
agreed upon guidelines, would be submitted to the Bank annually. The Ministry
of Agriculture would submit to the Bank a Project completion report no later
than six months after completion of the Project. Assurances were obtained to
this effect.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01        Land use and cropping pattern:  The Project, without signifi-
cantly changing the total area under off-season vegetables, would diversify
off-season vegetable exports. The cropping pattern would depend on develop-
ments in export markets. In addition to the more traditional export crops
analyzed in the Project, Morocco would attempt to produce crops such as off-
season lettuce, onions, cucumbers, celery, etc. which enjoy good marketing
prospects but have not yet been produced for export.
6.02        Of the 9,000 ha of off-season vegetables under the Project, 7,600
ha are estimated to be under tomatoes. Tomatoes would remain the traditional
Moroccan export crop, although the Project would reduce the surface under
tomatoes by about 1,200 ha. The area under peppers in openfield is estimated
at 500 ha and would be supplemented by about 350 ha of peppers under green-
house. The area under green beans is expected to increase from about 300 ha
to 750 ha since Morocco has a favorable marketing position for that crop. The



- 33 -
area under squash is expected to remain stable or slightly decrease. The
Project would also introduce an additional 300 ha of strawberries in open-
field and about 150 ha of eggplants and melons under greenhouses.
6.03        Productivity Increases:  For open-field production, total yields
would rise relatively moderately (about 56% on average) but yields of export
quality production would increase substantially (about 160Z on average), due
to improved varieties, better cultivating techniques and improved marketing
structure. The projected yields are well below full potential. They take
into account climatic riska and are considered conservative. Progressive
farmers using modern production inputs have already surpassed them.
6.04      Full development yields are projected to be reached after four years
because (i) farmers have a long tradition of producing off-season vegetables
in open-field; (ii) the dense extension service foreseen for greenhouses would
assure that production techniques are understood and implemented; and (iii)
Morocco has been experimenting with greenhouses and improved vegetable produc-
tion and new techniques are already known and available for larger diffusion.
6.05      Production Increases.  Without the Project, the decline of Moroccan
exports is expected to continue, though less rapidly, because of OCE's recent
involvement at the production level. Except for skilled and generally large
farmers, vegetable growers would have little incentive to improve their pro-
duction techniques. Low yields for export, low return and limited access
to credit would hamper small farmers' on-farm investments such as development
of greenhouses and improved agricultural techniques. Some of the existing
constraints (soil infection, etc.) would worsen production conditions.
Exports of tomatoes would probably continue to decline. Pepper production
is expected to remain stable, since the soils of Agadir Province have not yet
been infected, but would be absorbed by an attractive local market. Green
bean production would follow the same trend. Squash would remain stable.
Strawberries and melons would not be developed except on a few large farms.
6.06        With the Project, the estimated evolution of the cropping pattern
and of production at full development is summarized in the table below:



- 34 -
Production
Cropped Area     Export         Local Market         Total
(ha)                 --------tons-------------------
Tomatoes
Without project      7,600           76,000          152,000           228,000
With project         6,450          243,700           94,500          338,200
Incremental     -1,150           167,700         -57,500           110,200
Peppers
Without project        500             -              10,000            10,000
With project           850           17,000           17,000            34,000
Incremental        350            17,000            7,000           24,000
Greenbeans
Without project        300             -               1,500             1,500
With project           750            6,470            3,180             9,650
Incremental        450             6,470            1,680            8,150
Squash
Without project        600            3,000            4,200             7,200
With project           500            6,000            4,000            10,000
Incremental       -100             3,000             -200            2,800
St rawberri es
With project           300            2,400            5,100             7,500
Incremental        300          2___400             5,100            7,500
Eggplants
With project            75            4,500              750             5,250
Incremental         75             4,500              750            5,250
Melons
With project            75            1,125              375             1,500
Incremental         75             1,125              375            1,500
B. Marketing
General
6.07      The Project's export projections are based on the market potential
for the various vegetables and on Morocco's demonstrated ability to produce
and market them. The analysis has been limited to seven crops and to the
traditional Moroccan markets (Germany, France) which account for 95% of
Moroccan outlets. The Project would seek to achieve greater diversification
of export crops and export markets. However, because of the short implement-
ation period, the importance of tomatoes as a crop, and of France as a market,
diversification would remain limited during the Project. The Project, by
providing the technical means and the organizational structure to control



- 35 -
the timing, type and quality of production, would permit Morocco to take full
advantage of the rapidly evolving European off-season vegetable market, par-
ticularly between December and March, when the expansion of import require-
ments is greatest and when few suppliers are able to produce at competitive
costs.
6.08      The market analysis indicates that European import requirements for
off-season vegetables could absorb the increased Moroccan exports without
unduly affecting the market share of other export countries. The distribution
of Moroccan exports among importing countries and Morocco's share of their
potential import markets is given in Annex 2, Table 2. The marketing pros-
pects are good for all crops with the possible exception of tomatoes. The
projected levels of tomato exports are possible to achieve, but more difficult
than those of other produce because (i) the growth rate of tomato imports in
EEC countries is lower than for other vegetables; and (ii) Morocco's share of
the tomato market is and would remain much larger than for other vegetables.
If Morocco failed to export all its projected tomato production, it could
switch to other produce or reduce its areas under tomatoes without signif-
icantly affecting the overall economic rate of return (para. 6.52).
Tomatoes
6.09      Despite a reduction in acreage, Morocco would increase its exports
from an average of 135,000 t in 1972-77 to 245,000 t in 1986/87. The large
majority of these exports would have to find a market in the EEC countries.
6.10      The EEC Markets.  Despite a stagnation of total tomato imports into
the EEC, off-season tomato import demand continues to increase.  From June
to October, the EEC has become self-sufficient.  However, during the off-
season period (October-May), EEC consumption has increased by about 5% p.a.
and EEC imports increased by 4% p.a. from 346,500 t in 1969/70 to 455,000 t
in 1976/77. Based on a continuation of this growth, EEC import requirements
would amount to 532,000 t in 1980/81 and 674,000 t in 1986/87.
6.11      EEC Regulations.  Through its Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)
the EEC is protecting its producers from extra EEC competition through a
combination of ad valorem tariffs, variable levies and support prices.
Tomatoes are among the eleven products subject to reference prices. The
reference price, designed to protect European growers, is a floor below
which a foreign product is not allowed to enter the Community. If the entry
price of imported tomatoes is below the reference price for more than two
consecutive days, the EEC intervenes by imposing a compensatory tax and
can go as far as complete prohibition on importation. In 1977 reference
prices have been in application from April 1 to December 20, but there existed
no reference prices during the main off-season period. Morocco will have to
adjust to any changes in the EEC agricultural policy in order to avoid their
tomatoes being surtaxed or even forbidden entry at EEC frontiers. OCE's
new marketing system will provide Morocco with the necessary information and
means to plan its production in view of EEC regulations.



36 -
6.12      Supply of EEC Imports.  Intra-EEC trade of off-season tomatoes
increased from 50,000 t in 1969/70 to 100,000 t in 1976/77, mainly due to the
development of greenhouse production in Europe. However, this production
is limited to March/April/May and has been hampered by rising energy costs.
The expansion of off-season European exports is expected to decline substan-
tially, as already witnessed by the stagnation of Italian exports and only
a moderate increase in Dutch production (1%) between 1972 and 1977. It is
therefore estimated that intra-European trade will only increase by 2% p.a.
to 108,000 t in 1980/81 and 120,000 t in 1985/86.
6.13      Spain is the largest non-EEC exporter to EEC market.  Spanish
exports to EEC increased by 1.7% p.a. from 160,000 t in 1969/70 to 180,000
t in 1976/77.  The substantial increase in mainland production has been partly
offset by the decline in the exports of the Canary Islands (from 150,000 t
in 1966 to 110,000 t in 1975), and almost fully absorbed by a high yearly
increase in domestic consumption (5%). Assuming a 2% yearly increase in
Spanish exports to EEC countries, Spanish exports would amount to 191,000 t
in 1980/81 and 215,000 t in 1985/86.
6.14      EEC imports from other countries have increased from 54,000 t in
1969/70 to 60,000 t in 1976/77 or at an annual rate of 1.5%. Eastern European
countries are supplying about 15,000 t of tomatoes and this is not expected
to increase. The rest of the EEC demand is supplied by a large number of
countries, whose share of the market, with the possible exception of Israel,
depends on supply conditions. If supply is scarce and prices high, tomatoes
are imported from Africa, Latin America and even the USA. These countries'
share of the EEC market is estimated to increase by 2% per year, although some
countries, like Greece and Israel, might substantially increase their exports
to the EEC.
6.15      EEC Market Potential for Morocco.  Import supply and demand fore-
casts for off-season tomatoes indicate that the production gap would amount
to about 165,000 t in 1980/81 and to 240,000 t in 1985/86. Morocco is well
placed to capture this potential market because of (i) its proximity to EEC
market as compared with African countries and Israel; and (ii) its ability
to produce at low cost at any time in the year. (EEC countries, Greece and
Spain require heated greenhouses to produce in the earliest season).
6.16      The major potential competitor of Morocco is Spain.  However,
Morocco has some distinct advantages over Spain which outweigh the threat
of Spain's entry into the European Common Market: (a) the quality of Moroccan
tomatoes is superior; (b) Moroccan production costs are only half those of
Spain; and (c) Spain has not resolved the technical problems of greenhouse
production and its hybrid varieties are not appreciated by the consumer.
6.17      Spain's admission into the Common Market may alter trade relation-
ships significantly. However, drastic changes are not expected in the near
future as Morocco is tied to France by several trade and economic agreements.
It is with respect to the application of the safeguarding clauses within
the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy that intervention by Spain



- 37 -
could take place, in the form of an extension of the application of reference
prices (para 6.11). This threat could not materialize until after a fairly
long trial period. It justifies speedy implementation of the Moroccan vege-
table Program so as to put Morocco in a position to adapt quickly to any
tightening of the import calendar.
6.18      The French and German Markets.  France and Germany account for about
95% of all Moroccan tomato exports. France is by far Morocco's most important
export market (75% of all Moroccan exports in 1976/77). Total French off-season
imports (October-May) have increased from 130,347 t in 1970 to 144,559 t in
1977. Imports decreased in April and May (-3% p.a.), increased moderately in
October, November (+2%) and substantially from December to March (5.2% to 8.6%
p.a.). Projections based on past monthly trends show that French off-season
tomato imports would increase from 148,000 t in 1978 to 207,000 t in 1987 or
at an annual rate of about 4%. As the biggest increase of import demand is
projected for January to March when Morocco's share of the market is about 80%
and when it has a clear advantage over its competitors, it is estimated that
Morocco will be able te capture 90% of the projected increase in import demand
during October to March. During April-May, Morocco would maintain its share
of the shrinking market. Thus Moroccan exports to France would amount to
about 145,000 t in 1987 or about 70% of the total French off-season market.
This compares relatively modestly with the traditional Moroccan share of 80%
of the French market (1969-1974).
6.19      Germany is an increasingly important market for Moroccan tomatoes:
Morocco exported 2,700 t to Germany in 1.970/71 (2% of its total exports) and
25,000 t in 1976/77 (20% of its total exports). German off-season tomato
imports have increased by about 6% annually over the last seven years. High
tomato prices during the winter months indicate that demand is far from being
saturated and that past trends in imports should continue. Like France, the
growth of off-season imports is unevenly distributed over the off-season
period. From December to March, imports have increased at an annual rate of
11%, while imports during November, April and May have been rather stable. For
the projection of future import requirements, it was assumed that overall off-
season demand would continue to increase at 6% until 1983 and then decline to
4%. Based on these projections, German imports of off-season tomatoes would
increase from 132,000 t in 1977 to 210,000 t in 1987.
6.20      The Netherlands is Germany's main supplier of off-season vegetables,
covering about 40% of Germany's off-season needs. Ninety six percent of
Dutch exports to Germany is concentrated in November, April and May. During
that period Dutch exports are expected to grow at about the rate of the
expansion of the German market, i.e. at 2.6% per year. Dutch exports from
December to March are insignificant (2,000 t) and have increased only moder-
ately; they are expected to almost double over the period considered from
2,300 t in 1978 to 4,000 t in 1987.
6.21      Morocco's share of the slow growing market period (November, April
and May) is only 8% and it is expected that it will maintain this share.
Morocco, however, supplied 36% of the December to March market and is ex-
pected to expand its market share to 40%. Thus, Moroccan exports to Germany



- 38 -
are expected to increase from 26,000 t in 1977/78 to 53,000 t in 1987 and its
market share would increase from 19% to 25%.
6.22      Spain, with the Canary Islands, would be the major Moroccan compet-
itor for the German growth market. Spain, which provides 56% of the fast
growing market period (December to March), would increase its exports from
about 33,000 t in 1977/78 to 69,000 t in 1987 or at an annual rate of 7%. Its
market share would increase from 26% in 1977/78 to 33% in 1987. It is unlikely
that Spain could expand its exports to Germany at a faster rate. Other
suppliers (including France, Italy and Israel) are currently providing about
11% of the German import market. Their supply is highly fluctuating and it
has been estimated that their exports to Germany would remain stable at about
11,000 t/year.
6.23      Other European markets are less attractive for Morocco.  Great
Britain imports about 96,000 t of tomatoes from November to April. The Canary
Islands and Spain provide 87,000 t, i.e. about 92% of the import market.
British import requirements during the period of November to April are esti-
mated to increase by about 4% p.a. Thus, Great Britain's needs for imports
would increase to 137,000 t in 1987. Assuming a 2% increase in Spanish
exports and other exports expanding at 4%, Morocco could supply about 10,000 t
in 1987. The Scandinavian countries (Sweden, Norway, Denmark) imported
about 28,000 t in 1976/77 and their imports are expected to reach about 33,000
t in 1981 and 41,000 t in 1987. Spanish and Dutch exports account for about
93% of the present Scandinavian import demand.  Assuming a 2% increase in
Dutch and Spanish exports and a stable supply from other sources, Morocco
could export about 8,000 t of tomatoes in 1987.  Switzerland imported 30,000 t
of tomatoes in 1977 and is expected to import 44,000 t in 1987.  Morocco has
increased its share of the market from 2% in 1972 to 8% in 1975 and 13% in
1977. It is expected that Morocco would easily be able to supply 20% of the
future market and thus export 9,000 t in 1987.
Other Vegetables
6.24      The market prospects for other off-season vegetables from Morocco
are excellent because European import requirements are increasing rapidly
and Morocco is and would remain a relatively small supplier. Through its
marketing panel (see para 5.22) OCE would make a major effort to expand
exports of other vegetables and, if its marketing experience warrants it,
Morocco would attempt to accelerate the shift of its production potential
from tomatoes to other vegetables.
6.25      Peppers.  Under the Project, Morocco wiuld increase its pepper
exports from about 3,000 t in 1976/77 to 6,500 t in 1981 and to 17,000 t in
1986. Off-season pepper imports into the major European countries (Germany,
France and Great Britain) have risen from 13,700 t in 1971/72 to 36,000 t in
1977/78. Projections based on an 18% annual growth until 1981/82 and 10%
thereafter indicate an off-season import demand for pepper in those three
countries of 103,000 t in 1985/86. Morocco would export the bulk of its
peppers to France and Germany. Morocco's main competitors would be Spain,



- 39 -
Italy, Israel and African countries. Spain has substantially increased its
exports of peppers and currently supplies 34% of the French and 15% of the
German market. Italy's exports have not increased substantially. Italy
presently supplies 15% of the French and 19% of the German market. Israel
no long^  -:p;-  -s th- Frenc1 m2rk-   >- ----2-k    about 18% of the Gern"r
imports. African countries supply 20% of the French and 10% of the German
import market. Morocco would be able to supply the French market with 5,000 t
in 1985/86, as well as the German market with 12,000 t without cutting into
the market share of Israel and Spain, and assuming that Italian and African
exports double. These projections would still leave a sizable market for third
countries.
6.26      Green beans.  Morocco's exports of green beans would increace to
3,600 t in 1981/82 and 7,400 t in 1985/86.  European production satisfies
European consumption from May to mid-November. However, off-season imports
are expanding at an annual rate of 26%. France is the biggest importer of
green beans, with 21,603 t during the period October-May 1977/78. Morocco's
main competitors are Spain and Africa. Since Morocco would shift its produc-
tion to the December-May season, the African countries would be its major
competitors. Given the rapidly expanding market and the relatively limited
Moroccan supply, no difficulties are foreseen in the marketing of green beans.
Assuming a 15% increase in import demand and assuming that Morocco would
export all its green beans to France, Moroccan supplies would constitute 12%
of French import requirements in 1981/82 and 19% in 1985/86 which is below its
market share in 1972/73 (22%).
6.27      Strawberries.  Under the Project, Morocco's strawberry exports
would increase to 1,700 t in 1981/82 and to 2,400 t in 1985/86. All European
countries are producing strawberries from April (Italy) to September (Nether-
lands. Imports from non-EEC countries are limited to the off-season period,
and have increased by about 16% p.a.   Germany and France are by far the
biggest markets. Their main suppliers are Israel, Mexico and the United
States. Morocco's ability to produce from December through May, its low labor
costs and its proximity to the market would permit to export its projected
production which would amount to 9% of the potential German and French market
(assuming a conservative 10% annual growth rate of import requirements).
6.28      Melons.  Under the Project, Morocco would start exporting melons.
However, because of the existing local demand for off-season melons and
production being restricted to the Souss-Massa region, Morocco would export
only about 300 t in 1981/82 and 1,110 t in 1985/86. No marketing difficulties
are foreseen. Should Morocco prove able to produce melons at the required
quality level, production and exports could be greatly increased.
6.29      Squash and Eggplant.  The Project would increase squash exports from
the present low levels to a modest 7,000 t which corresponds to about the
export level of squash in 1974/75. Eggplant exports are expected to increase
to 900 t in 1981/82 and 4,700 t in 1985/86. Although much of the trade in
eggplants and squash is between European countries in summer, the off-season
trade is increasing rapidly. Most countries do not separate eggplant and
squash imports in their trade records. In 1977 EEC imports of eggplants are



--  4u    -
estimated to have been at about 33,000 t and squash at about 42,000 t. France
is the largest market for both eggplants and squash, and accounts for over 60%
of the combined imports. Germany is the second largest market, followed by
Switzerland for squash and Great Britian for eggplants. Morocco, Kenya, the
Canary Islands, Martinique and Guadaloupe are the main off-season suppliers to
Europe. Israel also supplies eggplants, though it appears to have placed less
ewphasis on this vegetable than on some others. African countries are also
minor suppliers of eggplants to Europe.
6.30      Off-season imports of squash and eggplant into France have in-
creased from about 12,000 t in 1970/71 to about 31,000 t in 1976/77 or at
an annual rate of about 17%. Spain's exports have increased annually and
reached 54% of the French market in 1976/77.  Spain's exports peak in April
and May, while Morocco's supplies are concentrated from January to April.
Assuming a conservative 15% growth rate of French imports and a continuous
15% share of the market, Morocco would be able to supply about 8,000 t in
1981/82 and 9,500 t in 1985/86. German off-season imports have increased
from 1,647 t in 1971/72 to 4,162 t in 1976/77 or at an annual rate of about
20%. Most of the expansion has been in eggplants. Italy is Germany's main
supplier of off-season eggplants (47% of the market in 1976/77).  Morocco's
share is minor (5%). The market is divided among a great number of countries,
nostly African. Morocco is expected to export about 2,200 t to Germany
in 1985/86. This would amount to about 16% of the German market in 1985/86.
As Morocco's exports would be mostly in eggplant, where market prospects are
particularly favorable, no marketing problems are foreseen.
C. Prices
Prices for Agricultural Outputs
6.31      Average import prices of off-season vegetables on Rungis market in
France and on the wholesale markets in Germany have remained relatively stable
in real terms. Because of increased competition in the future, the prices
used in the economic analysis foresee a small decline in prices in real
terms. Moroccan producers receive about one-third of the wholesale price,
which is considered a reasonable margin. The difference between the wholesale
price and the producer price is made up by a 5-8% commission fee to the
wholesaler, a 5% los', transit costs, the OCE's commission of 3.6%, a charge
of 1% for quality control, packing, port handling and a small contribution to
the stabilizing fund and to the farmers' associations (para 3.14). Tle fee
for packing is determined by Government decree. Packing and marketing
costs are comparable to similar costs in other vegetable exporting countries.
6.32      Tomatoes.  Tomato prices in France and Germany reach their peak in
April when they are double their August and September level. Prices vary each
month and according to each category. Prices in Germany are slightly higher
than in France and partly reflect a quality differential. Average base prices
used for the financial and economic analysis are farmgate prices of DH 1.50/kg



- 41 -
for greenhouse production and DH 1.20/kg for open-field production, which
corresponds to c.i.f. prices of DH 3.35/kg and DH 3.15/kg respectively.
These prices are substantially lower than the expected price average for the
current campaign estimated at about F 4.00/kg. These conservative price
estimates have been chosen to take into account the increasingly competitive
market, and the possible decline of tomato prices in real terms.
6.33      Peppers.  Because of the short-fall in Ethiopian exports, peppers
have been in short supply on European markets and prices have increased
substantially. However, many countries have started producing peppers and
prices will probably stabilize, if not decline in real terms. Pepper prices
are highest in March and April and fall considerably in May. The prices
chosen for the economic and financial analysis are DH 1.90/kg for greenhouse
production and DH 1.50/kg for open field production which corresponds to a
c.i.f. price of DH 4.15/kg and DH 3.80/kg respectively. These prices are
considerably lower than the average prices obtained by Morocco in 1977/78
(DH 4.54/kg).
6.34      Green beans.  Green bean prices are relatively stable during the
off-season period. Variations in prices, howeyer, are important according
to quality. Prices at Rungis vary between F 10.00 to F 12.00/kg for extra-
fine green beans and from F 8.00 to F 10.00/kg for fine green beans. It is
estimated that Morocco should be able to receive DH 7/kg c.i.f. for green-
house production and DH 5/kg for open-field production, which corresponds
to a farmgate price of DH 3.50/kg or DH 2.30/kg, respectively. Farmers
have received an average price of DH 3.18/kg in 1976/77 and DH 2.81/kg in
1977/78 for their open-field production.
6.35      Eggplant.  Prices for off-season eggplant at Rungis are relatively
stable and vary between F 4.00 to F 6.00/kg. The average price obtained by
Morocco was DH 3.40/kg in 1976/77 and DH 3.05/kg in 1977/78.  It is expected
that Morocco would sell its eggplants at DH 3.40/kg which corresponds to DH
1.30/kg to the producer. This price is lower than the average prices obtained
by the farmers during the years 1974/77.
6.36      Melons.  Off-season melons are sold at Rungis at about F 6.00 to
F 9.00/kg. It has been estimated that Morocco would sell its melons, pro-
duced under greenhouses, at DH 6.80/kg (c.i.f. price) equivalent to DH 2.30/kg
for the farmer. Should prices at the farm level fall below DH 2.30/kg, the
greater part of the exportable production would probably be diverted to local
consumption, as local prices are very attractive.
6.37      Strawberries.  Strawberries are currently sold at about F 13.00/kg
at Rungis. Morocco has sold its production at fluctuating prices varying
from DH 7 to DH 9/kg c.i.f. during 1973/74-1977/78. The low prices obtained
are due to inadequate marketing rather than a reflection of European price
trends. The Project estimates the future price of strawberries at DH 8.50/kg
c.i.f. (France) or at 4 DH/kg at the farmgate.



- 42 -
6.38      Squash.  For squash, Spanish prices are always lower than Moroccan
ones since Moroccan supplies arrive throughout the higher priced off-season
period. Morocco has sold its squash production at an average price of DH
3.37/kg (c.i.f. France) in 1977/78 which corresponds to a farmgate price of
DH 1.48/kg. Prices in real terms are expected to remain stable throughout
the Project and are estimated at DH 3.30 c.i.f. France or DH 1.40 net pro-
duction.
6.39      Local market prices for all products have been estimated at observed
average prices in 1977/78. As local off-season vegetable demand is increasing
and as the Project does not significantly affect the national market supply,
local prices are considered to be conservative estimates.
Prices for Agricultural Inputs
6.40      Financial prices are based on observation of farmgate prices in
the Project area. Economic prices have been calculated on the basis of
accounting ratios recently established for the Moroccan agricultural sector.
(a) Seeds: Most of the vegetable seeds are imported; they are
obtained by the farmer through local dealers with the exception
of some hybrid seeds which are imported exclusively by OCE and
distributed at direct cost to the farmer. It is estimated
that farmgate prices of hybrid seeds are about 7% lower than
the economic price of seeds.
(b) Fertilizers: Fertilizers, except for phosphate, are imported
and processed by Fertima, a public enterprise. Phosphate
based fertilizers are processed and distributed by a Moroccan
firm (Societe Cherifienne des Engrais SCE). An import tax
of 30% is partly offset by a 10% subsidy price to Fertima and
SCE. Some farmers and farmers' associations can obtain a sub-
sidy equal to 20 and 30% respectively of domestic prices.
Most small and medium farmers, however, receive no subsidy.
(c) Pesticides: Chemicals and pesticides are imported into
Morocco in bulk and packed locally into small units for retail
sale. Import and indirect taxes result in a farmgate price of
about 38% higher than border prices adjusted for transport and
handling.
(d) Farm machinery services: Because of high import duties and
indirect taxes on imported agricultural machinery, the border
price of machine services is about 20% Iower than the farmgate
prices. Agrarian Reform Cooperatives and Farmers' Associations
can obtain a 30% subsidy of the domestic price of tractors.
Individual farmers do not receive these subsidies.
(e) Water: Well water is composed of the following costs: fuel
(50%) oil and lubrication (10%), repairs and maintenance (40%).
Because of high import duties and indirect taxes on these items,



- 43 -
the economic price of water is about 37% lower than the finan-
cial cost of water.
(f)  Manure and Transport:  50% of the price of manure is transport
costs. Because of high taxes on gasoil, lubricants and imported
lorries, the economic cost of transport is 50% lower than the
financial cost. The economic price of manure is estimated at 72%
of its financial cost.
(g)  Plastic:  Plastic is produced locally with imported raw materials.
Border prices, adjusted for handling and transport, are estimated
at about 63% of the farmgate price of plastic.
(h)  Agricultural equipment and Irrigation Materials are mostly pro-
duced or assembled locally. Because of import duties on the raw
material and indirect taxes, the border prices, adjusted for
handling and transport, are estimated at about 65% of the farm-
gate price.
(i)  Labor:  In Morocco, the opportunity cost of unskilled labor is
estimated at between 30 and 50% of the average wage rate. In
the Project area, family labor is already fully employed and
labor is not very abundant (the region is importing labor from
the surrounding areas). It is considered that for the Project,
the opportunity cost of labor is approaching the daily wage rate.
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.41      The Project is consistent with Morocco's national objectives of
(i) improving its balance of trade; (ii) accelerating economic growth; and
(iii) increasing productive employment.
6.42      The economic analysis, by using border price equivalents expresses
the direct and indirect impact of the Project on foreign exchange earnings.
The Project would accelerate economic growth given its high net present value
(para 6.54) and its many forward and backward linkages. Through its labor
intensive cultivation of high value crops under greenhouses and in openfield
the project would raise labor productivity. Employment in off-season vege-
table production is estimated to increase from 3.8 million man/days to about
6.0 million man/days or by the equivalent of about 10,000 full-time jobs.  The
production of 193,000 t generated by the Project would require an additional
work force of about 1.3 million man/days for processing and packing of the
vegetables. The Project would therefore employ the equivalent of about 16,000
full-time workers at an investment cost of about US$6,000 per job, which
compares favorably to small scale industry. No difficulties are expected in
labor supply as the Project area is heavily populated and, if required, labor
can be obtained from the surrounding areas.



- 44 -
6.43      Beneficiaries.  Out of the 11,000 vegetable farm families living
in the Project area, about 8,000 would directly benefit from the Project.
It is estimated that about 3,000 families would be potato producers or pro-
ducers of off-season vegetables for the rapidly growing local market and
they would only benefit indirectly from the Project.
6.44      Aside from its important employment impact, the Project is not
expected to benefit members of the rural target group, as the off-season vege-
table sector is a relatively privileged part of the Moroccan economy. The
present per capita income of a small farmer owning 2 ha of land and having
0.75 ha under off-season vegetables is substantially above Morocco's absolute
poverty level. The Project beneficiaries are limited to farmers who already
produce vegetables since, because of water limitations, the irrigated area
cannot be increased. However, the Project would assure that, within the off-
season vegetable sector, the small farmers who constitute the large majority
of the Project participants would have access to modern technology, inputs and
credit, and thus fully participate in Project benefits. Based on typical farm
models the income effect of the Project would be:
Farm Model                         Income without project   Income with project
DH                      DH
2 ha farm openfield
(vegetables:  0.75 ha)                     14,500                    23,400
7 ha farm openfield
(vegetables:  3.0 ha)                      36,600                    73,300
2 ha farm openfield
(greenhouses:  0.25 ha)                    13,300                    46,400
7 ha farm openfield
(greenhouses:  0.5 ha)                     75,600                   139,300
E. Financial Analysis
6.45      Open-field Production:  The financial and economic rates of return
on typical investments models for the open-field are summarized below:
Crop                       Financial         Economic
Tomatoes                      27                50
Peppers                       35                67
Squash                        53               129
Green Beans                   80               124
Strawberries                  71               119



- 45 -
The computations have been based on January 1979 input prices and estimated
or observed output prices. The higher economic rates of return show that
Moroccan price distortions put the export-oriented horticultural subsector
at a disadvantage. The returns on farmers' equity, assuming regular financing
by CNCA, are at or above 50% for all the crops. The returns are considered to
be sufficiently attractive to assure farmers' acceptance of the proposed tech-
nical packages. Sensitivity tests show that the investments remain attractive
with a 20% cost overrun or 20% cut in benefits. As investments are short
term, farmers can easily adapt production and production costs to market
requirements. The two crops with the highest returns (strawberries and green
beans) are also the riskiest ones. Off-season strawberries can only be grown
in the Souss-Massa region and their high manpower requirements involve special
managerial skills. The return on green beans implies the production of high
quality, extra-fine beans, for which an interesting yet limited market exists
in France.
6.46      Greenhouse Production:  The financial and economic rates of return
on greenhouse production are:
Crop                       Financial          Economic
Tomatoes                      21                 31
Peppers                       37                 44
Green Beans                   21                 24
Melons                         15                21
Eggplants                     16                 19
As for open-field production, the financial rate of return has been based on
revenues lagged by one year. Incremental costs and benefits have been cal-
culated compared to the open-field situation with the Project, as the farmers'
choice is between improved open-field production and greenhouse production.
Compared to the without project situation the financial returns would be
substantially higher. A relatively high rate of return is required to induce
farmers to invest in greenhouse production, a technique which requires high
financial obligations and with which they have no experience. The returns on
a 30% equity investment, though attractive, are not sufficiently high for
small and medium sized farmers to invest in greenhouses at the rate required
by the Project. Since the implementation of the greenhouse component is an
essential part for the success of the proposed marketing structure, the return
on the farmer's contribution should not be lower than 50% to assure the imple-
mentation of the program. The 90% promotional financing of greenhouses would
assure these returns. Returns to farmers' contributions at standard financing
(70%) indicate that greenhouse investments would be sufficiently attractive
for big farmers and that promotional financing for small and medium size
farmers could be abandoned as soon as the profitability of the investment has
been demonstrated. The spread between the economic and financial return is
lower for greenhouses than for open-field production, since greenhouses are
exempt from duties.



- 46 -
6.47      Farm Models.  The financial and economic rate of return of typical
farm models are:
Financial          Economic
2 ha farm:  openfield vegetables              26                 49
7 ha farm:  openfield vegetables              20                 35
2 ha farm:  openfield and greenhouses         55                 67
7 ha farm:  openfield and greenhouses        104                 123
The sensitivity analysis shows that the two openfield vegetable farms without
the greenhouses are relatively sensitive to decreases in benefits. The finan-
cial rate of return of the two farms remains acceptable at an increase of costs
by 20%, but a decrease of benefits by 20% yields rates of return of 5 and 7%.
This confirms the relatively speculative character of off-season vegetable
exports. Returns on farmers' equity are high (above 50%), but the risks are
commensurate. The farmers protect themselves against this risk by planting
only part of their farm in off-season vegetables. Farm budgets with green-
house production are not so sensitive to increases in costs or decreases in
benefits.
6.48      Packing and Control Stations:  The benefits of packing stations
have been based on tariffs of processing tomatoes and peppers at 1979
prices and the benefits on control stations on the tax perceived by OCE for
quality control. The financial and economic rates of return are:
Financial    Economic
Small producer packing stations           34            80
Regrouped packing stations                32            77
Quality control centers                   42            50
F. Economic Analysis
6.49      The economic rate of return is estimated at about 46%.  It is based
on the value of net incremental production of the Project. All investments,
incremental production costs, replacement of greenhouses, operating costs
of the extension service, the research stations and packing and control
stations have been deducted from the net benefits. The benefit stream has
been lagged by one year. All input and output prices have been converted
into economic prices based on conversion factors recently established for
Morocco or by deducting subsidies and taxes and adjusting for the common
foreign exchange denominator (para 6.40). Project costs and benefits have
been calculated over 20 years. Each farmer would achieve the projected
yields within four years and the Project's full development production would
be achieved within seven years. Only the benefits of incremental production



- 47 -
have been taken into account for the control and packing stations. As the
reorganization of the packing stations would also improve the productivity of
other existing stations, the benefits of the packing component are conservative.
6.50      The Project design has been chosen after analysis of several alter-
natives as the optimal strategy for taking full advantage of the potential
of the off-season vegetable market and local production capabilities. An
economic analysis of each Project component would be misleading as all the
components are interdependent and necessary for the success of the Project.
The greenhouse component is considered to be the required minimum to permit
OCE to enter into marketing agreements with importers. In the same way, the
restructured marketing system is required to assure attractive returns to
the farmers. The agricultural component alone, assuming a restructuring of
the marketing organization without the investments in the physical infra-
structure of packing and control stations, would yield a rate of return of
about 40%. The rate of return on the physical marketing infrastructure is
75% and therefore justified, even if it were considered a separable component.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
6.51      The risks of the Project are relatively low for the following rea-
sons: (i) almost all Project costs are divisible; any reduction in benefits
would be accompanied by a reduction in costs; (ii) vegetable production can
easily be adapted to the market situation; if demand for any one commodity
should fall short of projections, other crops could be substituted; (iii) the
technology involved in the project is well known; and (iv) yields and price
assumptions are conservative. The major risk of the Project is the marketing
uncertainties. The effects of the marketing risk are, however, reduced by the
possibility of substitution of crops and the relative insensitivity of the
Project towards marketing projections. If the total demand for Moroccan
vegetables should fall short of projection, the total area under off-season
vegetable production could be reduced substantially and the Project would
remain economically viable. Sensitivity tests show that the area under open-
field tomatoes could be reduced from 6,000 ha to 3,000 ha and the economic
rate of return would still be at an acceptable level (17%). The remaining
risk is the price level. Prices used in the economic analysis already take
into account a substantial decrease in relative prices. The sensitivity
analysis shows, however, that a reduction of prices by 20% would still yield
a return of about 30%.
6.52      The agricultural component is relatively insensitive to cost over-
runs or decreases in benefits: a decrease in benefits of 20% would still
yield a rate of return of about 25%. Costs would have to increase by 50%
to bring the rate of return down to about 15%.
6.53      The rate of return for the packing stations is relatively insen-
sitive to increases in cost. Benefits are fixed in terms of prices and the
risk is limited to the quantity of vegetables processed. Sensitivity analysis
shows that even if benefits were reduced by 50% and volumes processed by 20%,
the packing stations are still economically viable. For the quality control
centers, sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return is not sensitive



- 48 -
to either decreases in benefits or increases in costs: a 50% increase in
costs would still yield a return of 31% and a similar decrease in benefits,
20%.
6.54      At the opportunity cost of capital, estimated at about 10%, the net
present value and the switching values are the following:
Benefits   Costs    Net Present Value
%               - (Million DH)
Total Project                    -41         68            930.6
Agricultural component           -42         64            662.9
Marketing component              -54        117            267.7
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The main agreements reached at negotiations included:
(a)  Government would:
(i) onlend of the Bank loan US$50.0 million to CNCA and US$2.8
million to OCE and enter into a subsidiary loan agreement
with CNCA and OCE on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank by December 31, 1979 (para. 4.19);
(ii) carry the foreign exchange risk on the loan and guarantee
the debt service (para. 4.19);
(iii)  establish by December 31, 1979 a National Coordination
Committee and Regional Technical Committees with terms of
reference powers and membership satisfactory to the Bank
(paras. 5.01-5.02);
(iv) ensure that the management, staffing, operation, budget
and program for the Research, Demonstration and Training
Centers would be acceptable to the Bank and be estab-
lished in agreement with OCE no later than December 31,
1979 for the year 1980 and by the National Coordination
Committee for the following years (para. 5.12);
(v) employ no later than December 31, 1980 horticulturalists
specialized in research and training with qualifications
and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 5.13);
(vi) make available to CNCA Treasury funds for promotional
financing of greenhouses under an agreement to be entered
into not later than January 31, 1980 (para. 5.15).



- 49 -
(b) OCE would:
(i) ensure that adequate transportation facilities and operating
budget would be provided to OCE/SASMA agents (para. 4.08);
(ii)  prefinance and procure greenhouses on behalf of the farmers
(para. 4.19);
(iii)  initiate not later than October 31, 1979 a reorganization of
its marketing structure in France for off-season vegetables
and establish in concurrence with the Bank an annual imple-
mentation program for this marketing reorganization (para.
5.23).
(c) CNCA would:
(i) present to the Bank for its approval the two first CNCA loan
proposals for regrouping packing stations (para. 5.20);
(ii)  ensure that lending rates, terms and procedures for subbor-
rowers would be as outlined in paras. 5.14 to 5.17;
(iii)  ensure that (a) the additional Treasury loan would be limited
to a maximum of 2 ha greenhouse per individual farmer or a
Cooperative member and (b) about 60% of the Treasury loan
would be set aside for farmers who would not own more than
1/2 hectare of greenhouse (para. 5.15);
(iv)  have its accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and ensure that the auditors annual report and
the audit of the statement of expenditures would be sent to
the Bank within five months of the end of each fiscal year
(para. 5.26).
(d) Government, OCE and CNCA would:
(i) carry out procurement as outlined in paras. 4.21 to 4.25;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank necessary data and information through
periodic reports to measure Project implementation (para.
5.27).
7.02      Agreements having been reached on the assurances sought, the Project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$58 million to the Government of the Kingdom
of Morocco for a term of 15 years with 4 years of grace at an annual interest
rate of 7.9%.
August 1979



KINGDON OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECr
Pro1ect Costa and Schedule of Expenditures
Total des Couts du Projet et Calendrier des Depenses
Component                                                     Year                                               Foreign Exchange
(Annee)                         Total             (Monnaie Etransere)    Element
1          2    DHIOOO 3           4        DH'OOO    US$o000          US$000       %
Onfarm Investments                                                                                                                      Investissements au Niveau de la Ferme
Greenhouse production                                                                                                                   Production sous serres
Greenhouses                           16,800    28,000    42,000    53,200         140,000    35,000         24,500         70          Serres
Drip Irrigation                        1.250      2 500      3.750     5.000         12.500     3,125         1.500         48          Irrigation localisee
Subtotal without contingencies        18,050    30,500    45,750    58,200          152,500    38,125        26,000         68          Sous total sans imprevus
Physical contingencies 5%              903      1,525      2,288     2,910          7,626     1,906         1,296         68            Imprevus physiques 5%
Price contingencies                  1.705      5,326    12.470    22.022          41.523    10,381         7 059         68            Imprevus financiers
Total Greenhouse production              20,658    37,351    60,508    83,132         201,649    50,412        34,355         68        Total Production sous, serres
Openfield Production                                                                                                                    Production plein champ
Irrigation improvements                1,500      3,000      3,750     3,750         12,000     3,000         1,800         6Q          Amelioration irrigation
Sprayers                                  400       750        850     1,000          3,000        750          358         48          Pulverisateurs
Other equipment                           543     1.072      1.108     1.137          3860         965          579         60          Autres materiels
Subtotal without contingencies          2,443     4,822      5,708     5,887         18,860     4,715         2,737         58          Sous total sans imprevus
Physical contingencies 10%              244       482        571       589          1,886       471           273         58            Imprevus physiques 10%
Price contingencies                     242       913      1.630     2.334       5.119        1.280           742         58            Imprevus financiers
Total Openfield production                2,929     6,217      7,909     8,810         25,865      6,466        3,752         58        Total Production plein champ
Base cost on-farm investments            20,493    35,322    51,458    64,087         171,360    42,840        28,737         67         Cout de base investissements a la ferme
Physical contingencies                    1,147     2,007      2,859     3,499          9,512      2,377        1,569         66        Imprevus physiques
Price contingencies                       1.947     6.239    14.100    24.356          46,64     11.661         7.801         67        Imprevus financiers
Total on-fara investments                23.587    43,568    68.417    91f942         227.514    56.878        38.107         67        Total investissements au niveau de la ferme
Incremerntal Production Costs                                                                                                            Couts Additionnels d'Exnloitation
Medium-term investments                                                                                                                  Investissements a moyen-terme
Greenhouse production                     230       946      1,500     2,093          4,769     1,192           477         40           Production sous serres
Openfield production                   4 838      5.725      5.556     5.651         21.770      5,443        3,157         58           Production plein champ
Base cost medium-term investment        5,068     6,671      7,056    -7,744         26,539      6,635        3,634         55           Cout de base investissements a moyen terme
Price contingencies                     456     1.109      1.832     2.791          6.188     1.547           851         55             Imprevus physiques
Total mediun-term investment              5,524     7,780      8,888    10,535         32,727      8,182        4,485         55         Total investissementsamoyen terme
Short-term investments                                                                                                                   Investissements a cout-terme
Greenhouse production                   2,148     3,994      5,242     6,849         18,233      4,558         2,051        45           Production sous serres
Openfield production                   18,531    23.355    23.672    25.149          90.707    22.677         10 205        45           Production plein champ
Base cost short-term investment        20,679    27,349    28,914    31,998         108,940    27,235        12,256         45           Cout de base investissements a court terme
Price contingencies                   1,861     4 548      7.506    11.531         25 446      6,362        2.863         45             Imprevus physiques
Total Incremental Production Costs       22,540    31J897    36,420    43,529         134,386    33,597         15,119        45         Total couts additionnels d'exploitation
Base Cost Incremental Production         25,747    34,020    35,970    39,742         135,479    33,870         15,890        47         Cout de basecouts additionnels d'exploitation
Price contingencies                       2.317     5.657      9.338    14.322         31.634      7,909         3 714        47         Imprevus physiques
Total Incremental Production Costs       28,064    39 677    45.308    54.064         167.113    41.779         19.604        47        -rotal Couts additionnels d'exploitation
May 1979                                                                                                                                 Mai 1979
bse



KINGDOM OF MDROCOC
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT oF THE
VEGOTABLE PRODUCTION A1ND MARSETING PROJECT
PFleot Costsa sd Schedule of ExPenditurea
Total des Couts du Projet et Calendrier des Depenses
Co,poonent                                                 Year                                                    Foreign Exchange       Element
(Annee\                              Total              (Monnaie Etrangerel
I          2            3           4         IE'OOO   US$'00B           US$'000       %
DR'OOO
Agricultural Supoort Services                                                                                                              Services de Production Agricole
Extension Services                                                                                                                         Service de vulgarieatisn
Ivestoents aov55ti55ent5
Offices and housing                   1,640      1,640      1,060         -          4,340      1,085           163         15             Bureaux et logests
Vehicles sud equipment                  396        486       600          -          1-482        371           215         53            Vehiculs et ateriel
Subtotal                              2,036      2,126     1,660          -          5,822      1,456           378         26             Sous total
Establishment costs                                                                                                                        Coute d'et blisessnt
Salaries                                   780     1,755      3,003     3,003          8,541      2,135            -           -          Salsire  et traitents
Operation costs                            f8l       405        693       693        1W971          493           296         60           Couts d'e ploitation
Subtotat                                  960      2,160      3,696     3,696         10,512      2,628           296         il           Sou».total.
Base cost extension service               2,996      4,286      5,356     3,696         16,334      4,084           674         17         Cout de base service de vulgarisation
Physical contiogencies                       222       253        235        69            779        195            67         34         Imprewsu  physiques
Price contiogencies                         290      --5        1.451     1I_U           3.853        963           163         17         Imprevus finaciers
Total extension service                    3,508     5,294      7,042     5,122         20,966      5,242           904         17         Total service de vulgarimation
Cooperatives                                                                                                                               Cooperatives
iotercooperetive Centers                   -         290       435        725          1,450        363            54         15          Centrea d'intsrcoopsrativ
Milk Cotlection Cestera                              500        750     1,250          2,500        625           313         50           Centre  de collecte de lait
Cooporative Storage Facilities          1200       1.200      1 200     1 200          4,800      1.200           180         15          Centr   de stockages du  cooperative
Total Base Cost                         1,200      1,990      2,385     3,175          8,750      2,188           547         25           Cout de Base
Physical Contiogencies                  120        199        239       318            875        219            55         25             Sprevus Physiques
Prire Cootingencies                     119        363        682    1260           2h425        606           152         25             Iprevu  FinaoOiSrs
Total Cooperatives                         1,439     2,552      3,306     4,753         12,050      3,013           754         25         Total des Cooperatives
Seedling Froducti.a                                                                                                                        Pepinieres
Cooperative Seedling Production             -        510      1,530     1,530          3,570        893           714         80           Cooperative Pepinieras
OCE Seedling Production                  1,529        -          -        105          1,634        408           327         80           Pptiniere de I'OCE
Total Basa Cost                         1,529        510     T30        1,633          5,         1,301         1,041         80           Cout de Base
Physical Contiogeonise                  153         51        153       164            521        130           104         80            tmprevus Physiques
Prics Cooting..cieo                     151         93       437        647          1.328        332           265         80             Iprevua Financiers
Total Ssedlirg Production                  1,833       654      2,120     2,446          7,053      1,763         1,410         80         Total Pepinieras
Rsosarch, Training, Devouetretion                                                                                                          Recherch, Foratios,           tratioa
Construction                            990      1,410        840        -           3,240        810           122         15             Construction
Eqaipm.nt                               956        541         -         -           1,497        374           225         60             Materiel
D-rno.stratiou                          210         -          -          -            210         53            37         70             Deuonstration
Total Base Cost                         2,156      1,951        840         -          4,947      1,237           384         31           Cout de base investiss_t
Physical Contingencies                  216        195         84        -             495        124            38         31             loIprevus Physiques
PFics Coatingercies                      213       357        240        -             810        203            63         31             lmprevus Financiers
Total Investment CaSts                     2,585     2,503      1,164         -          6,252      1,564           485         31         Total Couts d'InvOstisa tssnt
E.tabliahoînt Cbots                                                                                                                        Couts d'Etablisemeot
Personnel                                  459       828      1,002     1,002          3,291        823            -           -           Personnel
operetios C..ts                            293 Le    547        647        727         2,214        554           233         42           Couts d'Esploitation
Base Cost Establiahment Coots              752     1,375      1,649     1,729          5,505      1,377           233         17           Couts de Base couts d'Esttblisseent
Physiral Contingencien                    29        55         65        73            222         55            21         39             Imprevu Physiques
Prics Contingeaciso                       71       237        445       649          1.402        351           118         34             tIprevus Financiers
Total Establishment Costs                    852     1,667      2,159     2,451          7,129      1,783           372         20         Total Couts d'Estsblissnt
Base Cotrs Rsea.rch, Truiaing,                                                                                                             Couts de base Recherche, Fostino, et             '
OieGonatration                             2,908     3,326      2,489      1,729         10,452     2,613            617        24         Denonstratiot
Physicul Coctiigencies                  245        250        149        73            717        179            59         33             Imprevus Physiques
Prics Contiigencies                      284       594        685       649          2,212        553           181         33            Itprevus Financiers
Total Research, Training, Deronstra-                                                                                                       Total Recherche, Forestion. D_aonsîrattun
tion boots                               3,437      4,170      3,323     2,451         13,381      3,345           857         26
Busc Cost Agricultural Support                                                                                                             Cout de Base de Services de Poduction
Services                                   9,062    10,112    11,760    10,235          41,169    10,292          2,879         28         Agricole
Physicol Contiagencie                    740       753        776       624          2,893        723           285         39             Itprevus Physiques
Prire Couticesociso                     844      1,005      3,255     3,913         9_817       2,454           761         31             IoMprevus Financierd
Total Agrirultural Support Services    10,646    12 670    15_791    14,772             53 879    13.469          3 925         29         Total Cout de Services de Froduetios Agricole
/A  First yeur =   operating ruais                                                                                                           La  Fientera 50se - 52 des cours de production



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCa1ON ANI) MARKETING PROJECT
Proiect Costs and Schedule of Expenditures
Total des Couts du Projet et Calendrier des Depenses
Component                                                    Year                                                 Foreign Exchange          Element
(Annee)                             Total           (Monnaie Etraneere)
1         2            3             4         DH'000   US$o000         US$000        7.
DR'000
Marketing Services                                                                                                                          Marketing
Invest=ents                                                                                                                                 Investissements
Packing stations                         2,200      4,000     3,500      5,300         15,000      3,750         1,463         39           Stations de conditionnement
Quality control stations                 3,600      3,600      3,600     3,600         14,400      3,600            756         21           Centres de controle
Storage facilities at port               3.600          -          -         -          3.600        900           225         25           Entrepots quai
Subtotal vithout contingencies           9,400      7,600      7,100     8,900         33,000      8,250          2,444         30           Sous total sans imprevus
Physical contingencies                   940        760        710       890          3,300        825           248         30             Imprevus physiques
Price contingencies                      931      1.390     2.027      3.527          7.875      1.969           591         30             Imprevus financiers
Total Investment costs                    11,271      9,750      9,837    13,317         44,175    11,044           3,283         30         Total Couts d'Investissement
Establishment Costs /a                       150        300        450        690          1,590        398            56         14         Couts d'Etablissement /a
Price contingencies                         14         50        117       249            430        107             15         14          Imprevus financiers
Total Establishment costs                    164        350        567        939          2,020        505            71         14         Total Couts d'Etablissement
Base Cost Marketing Services                 9,550      7,900      7,550      9,590         34,590      8,648         2,500         29       Cout de base Marketing
Physical Contingencies                         940        760        710        890          3,300        825           248         30       Imprevus physiques
Price Continagencies                           945      1.440   2.144        3 777           8.306      2.077           602         29       Imprevus financiers
Total Marketing Services                    11.435    10,100    10.404    14.257            46.196    11.550          3,350         29       Total Marketing                                             s
Feeder Roads                                                                                                                                 Routes Secondaires
Investments                                2,400      3,600      3,150     2,100         11,250      2,813            703         25         Investissements
Maintenance equipment 10% yr.                   -       240        600        915          1.755        439           307         70        Materiel d'entretien
Subtotal wsithout contingencies            2,400      3,840      3,750     3,015         13,005      3,252          1,010         31         Sous total sans imprevus
Physical contingencies                     240        384        375       302          1,301        325            101         31          Imprevus physiques
Price contingencies                        238        703      i.d7l     1.196          3.208         802           249         31           Imprevus financiers
Total Cost Feeder Roads                      2.878    4A927        5,196     4.513          17.514      4.379         1.360         31       Total Couts Routes Secondaires
Technical Assistasce & Studies                                                                                                             Assistance Technique et Etudes
Long-term technical assistance               480       960         640        180          2,260       565            396         70       Assistance technique
Short-term consultants                        96        96          96         96            384        96             67         70        Consultants
Total Base Cost                                576    I,056          736        276          2,644       661            463         70     Total Couts de BSse
Price contingencies                           52       177         191        100            520      130              91         70           Ieprevus financiers
Total Cost Technical Assistance                 628    1,233         927        376          3,164       791            554         70     Total Cout Assistance Technique
Hydraulic studies base cost                     200      800       1,000        300          2,300       575            345         60      Etudes hydraugeologies
Physical contingencies                       20        80         100        30            230         58             35         60           Imprevus physiques
Price contingencies                          20       146         286       119             571      142              85         60           Inprevus financiers
Total Cost Hydraulic Studies                   240    1,026        1,386       449           3,101       775            465         60      Total Couts Etudes Hydraugeologies
Total Base Cost Technical Assistance &         776    1,856        1,736        576          4,944    1,236             808         65     Total couts de base assistance technique et etudes
Studies
physical contingencies                        20        80         100         30            230        58             35         65          lIprevus physiques
Price contingencies                           72       323         477        219          1,091       272            176         65           Imprevus financiers
Total Cost Studies & Technical                 868    2.259         2U          825          6,265                    1,019         65     Total Couts Etudes et Assistance Technique
Ass istance
PROJECT GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                                         GRAND TOTAL DU PROJET
Base cost                                   68,028    93,050   112,224   127,245          400,547  100,138           51,824         52      Cout de base
Physical contingencies                       3,087      3,984      4,820      5,345         17,236    4,308           2,238         52      Imprevus physiques
Price contingencies                          6,363    16,167    30,385    47,783           100,698   25,175          1330           53      Imprevus finaciers                                         
Total                                       77,47S   113,201   147,42    1,2373            518,481  129,621          67,365         52      Total                                                      , -
/2 For Quality Control Stations on-y.                                                                                                      /aSeulenent pour les Centres de Controle.
May 1979                                                                                                                                   Mai 1979



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                    Disbursement                         Cumulative Disburse-
Quarter Ending                       During Quarter                      ment at End of
Quarter
Fiscal Year 80
December 31, 1979                     2.0                                     2.0
March 31, 1980                        0.5                                     2.5
June 30, 1980                         0.5                                     3.0
Fiscal Year 81
September 30, 1980                    2.0                                     5.0
December 31, 1980                     4.0                                     9.0
March 31, 1981                        2.0                                    11.0
June 30, 1981                         2.0                                    13,0
Fiscal Year 82
September 30, 1981                    4.0                                    17.0
December 31, 1981                     5.0                                    22.0
March 31, 1982                        3.0                                    25.0
June 30, 1982                         3.0                                    28.0
Fiscal Year 83
September 30., 1982                   5.0                                    33.0
December 31, 1982                     8.0                                    41.0
March 31, 1983                        4.0                                    45.0
June 30, 1983                         4.0                                    49.0
Fiscal Year 84
September 30, 1983                    3.0                                    52.0
December 31, 1983                     4.0                                    56.0
March 31, 1984                        2.0                                    58.0
August 1979



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARXETING PROJECT
Production Schedule
Calendrier de production
Vegetable      -_       Prov4nce         eNov.            Dec.       Jan.         Feb,         Mar.           Apr.         MaY
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fb c                                                      M 
Provînce
Tomatoes                                                                                                                                      Tomates
Casablanca
El Jadida/Safi                     I ___-_-
Agadir
Peppers                                                                                                                                       Poivrons
Agadir
Green Beane                                                                                                                                   flaricots Verts
Rabat
Cazablanca
Agadir
Eggplants                                                                                                                                     Aubergines
Agadir
Me Sens                                                                                                                                       Melons
El JadidalSafi
Agadir
stra'berries                                                                                                                                   Fra*ses
Squash                                                                                                                                         Courgettes
Casablanca              _         
El Jadida/Safi            -        - - -          -                         _
Agadir
Greenhouse (Serre)
Open Field (Plein Chamep)
February 1979
(5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II 



ANNEX II
- 55                                       Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Projected Distribution of Moroccan Vegetable
Exports Among Western European Countries
Items                                   1981                            1986
Quantity     % of Market          Quantity    % of Market
('000 t)                          ('000 t)
Total tomato exports          150.0              -               244.0           -
Exports to total EEC
Market                   147.0            28               224.0          34
Exports to non-EEC
Countries                  3.0             -                20.0           -
Specific countries
France                    105.0            65               145.0           73
Germany                    36.0            23                53.0          26
United Kingdom              6.0              6                10.0           7
Scandinavia                  -              -                 8.0          20
Switzerland                 3.0             9                 9.0          20
Other countries              -              -                 18.0           -
Total pepper- exporta            6.5             -                17.0           -
of which to:
France                      3.0            17                  5.0         19
Germany                     3.5             8                12.0          19
Total greenbean  exports         2.4             -                 7.4           -
France                      2.4            12                  7.4         19
Total squash & eggplant exports 5.0              -                11.7           -
of which:
France                      5.0            10                  9.5         15
Germany                      -              -                  2.2         16
Total strawberry exports         1.0             -                 2.4           -
France & Germany            1.0             9                  2.4           9
Total melon  exports             0.3             -                 1.1           -
France                      0.3                                1.1
May 1979



- 56 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Material on Morocco's Agricultural Sector
Ai - Special Report on Morocco's Agricultural Sector,
January 1975
A2 - World Bank - Morocco, Survey of the Agricultural
Sector and Prospects for the Development of Rainfed
Areas; Report No. 1395a-MOR
A3 - Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture: "Le Developpement
du Secteur Agricole," September 1978 (The "Transition
Plan")
B.   Other Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bi - Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Agriculture: "Project de Developpement
du Maraichage de Primeurs," December 1979, Project Preparation Report
including annexes on the Project, area, the development program, farm
models and the marketing organization.
B2 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: "Plan d'Action Primeurs," September 1977.
B3 - Kingdom of Morcco, OCE: "Le Deroulement de la Campagne," Council
d'Administration 1976/77.
B4 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: Tableau de bord: Recapitulation 1977/78.
B5 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: "Plan d' Action Primeurs - Campagne
1978/79: Production," April 1978.
B6 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: "Plan d'Action Conditionnement - Campagne
1978/79."
B7 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: "Cahier des Charges pour l'Agrement des
Stations de Conditionnement des Primeurs," draft.



ANNEX III
57 -                        Page 2
B8 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: "Liste des Stations Primeurs Agrees par
1'OCE," Campagne 1977/78.
B9 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: Detailed statistics on production and
marketing of tomatoes by region and by month, 1976/77.
B10 - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: Detailed statistics on production and
marketing of vegetables by region and by month, 1976/77.
Bll - Kingdom of Morocco, OCE: Direction des Primeurs et Coton, Division
Planification, "Evolution des Resultats: 1970-1978" prix et
tonnages.
B12 - Monthly off-season vegetables import statistics for selected
European countries by origin of imports 1975/76 - 1978/79.
B13 - Selected French Import statistics of vegetables, 1970-78.
B14 - Tropical Products Institute: "The .Market for aubergines and
courgettes in selected Western European countries," January 1979
ODM, London.
B15 - COLEACP: "Mission to the ACP producer countries; liaison committee
for African, Carribean and Pacific countries producers of tropical
fruit and off-season vegetables," Paris, March 1978.
B16 - French price statistics for vegetable prices: CIF, wholesale,
retail prices.
C. Selected Working Papers
Annex IV    - Agricultural Development
Appendix 1:  Technical Specifications for Production
Greenhouses
Appendix 2:  Record of Climatic Conditions
Appendix 3:  Greenhouses:  Schedule of Implementation
Appendix 4:  Cumulative Cropped Area under Greenhouses
Appendix 5:  Cumulative Cropped Area in Openfield
Appendix 6:  Terms of Reference for the Vegetable
Specialists
Appendix 7:  Hydrogeological Studies
Annex V    -  Agricultural Production
Appendix 1:  Evolution of Croppinig Pattern
Appendix 2:  Yield Assumption
Appendix 3:  Yearly Agriculturai Produçtion
Appendix 4:  Total Agricultural Production with
and without Project;



- 58 -                        ANNEX III
Page 3
Annex VI    - Marketing
Appendix 1:  Draft Recommendations Concerning Reform of the
Marketing System
Appendix 2:  Projected Moroccan Off-Season Vegetable Exports
Appendix 3:  EEC Imports of Off-Season Vegetables
Appendix 4:  Past and Projected EEC Import Requirements for
Off-Season Tomatoes
Appendix 5:  EEC Imports of Off-Season Peppers
Appendix 6:  Imports of Tomatoes - France
Appendix 7:  Imports of Tomatoes - Germany
Appendix 8:  Main Exporters of Off-Season Vegetables to EEC
Member Countries
Appendix 9:  French Imports of Off-Season Vegetables
Annex VII   - Cost Estimates
Appendix 1: Packing Plants for Small Producers, and Regrouped
Packing Stations
Appendix 2: Quality Control Centers
Appendix 3:  On Farm Investments
Appendix 4: *Investment and Operating Costs: Extension Service
and Cooperatives
Appendix 5:  Demonstration and Training Centers
Appendix 6:  Research Centers
Appendix 7:  Credit Requirements
Appendix 8:  Crop Production Costs
Appendix 9:  Hydrogeological Surveys
Annex VIII  - Projected Income and Cash Flow Statements
Appendix 1:  Greenhouse Production
Appendix 2:  Openfield Production
Appendix 3:  Small Producer Stations
Appendix 4:  Regrouped Packing Stations
Appendix 5:  Quality Control Centers
Annex IX    - Farm Models
Annex X       Economic Analysis
Appendix 1:  Financial Prices for Vegetables
Appendix 2:  France:  Monthly Wholesale Price Variations
Appendix 3:  Output Prices
Appendix 4:  Agricultural Input Prices
Appendix 5:  Accounting Ratios Used for Project Expenditures
Appendix 6:  Annual'Foreign Exchange Earnings and Expenditures
Appendix 7:  Employment Creation
Appendix 8:  Cost and Benefit Stream for The Economic Analysis
Appendix 9:  Switching Values



IBRD 14279
100                                                              8°                             KENlTR        iç  APRIL 1979
KINGDOM   MOROCCO                                                                         RABAT
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND
MARKETING PROJEOT                                                     MOHAMMEDIA    uznika
=                   -                        ~~~~~~~~~CASABLANCK- 
0     m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
e.bia Dr   B
A`AI .TELRO4DAN                                                            /
RIVERS                                      Tn  a  a  enpeae > h
War/d anks staff eScis,Seay fa,
the coneience af th/e.rads af
-32°9           69     89    190               the report ta wahich  is attached
The denominations sed and the
bo.ndaries shown an t/ns map
da nat,mply, on the part of the
0     20    40    60    80    100                  World Bank and,ts affiliates, any
judgment an the legal atatua af
KI LOMETENRS                           anyE teTaryR  a any endae,net
Tarfaya                                                                                                        ar acceptance af stch baundaries.



