Document of
The World Bank                 FILW MUX
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2618-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
August 22, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents n,ay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = DH 4.0
DH 1.00 = US$0.25
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE          Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement Economique
(Moroccan Industrial Development Bank)
CNCA          Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
EC            European Community
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP        Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Programme
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
MARA          Ministare de l'Agriculture et de la REforme Agraire
(Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform)
MEPN          Ministare de l'Equipement et de la Promotion
Nationale (Ministry of Public Works)
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
OCE           Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation
(National Marketing and Export Agency)
SASMA         Societe Agricole de Services au Maroc



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:              $58 million.
Terms:               Amortization 15 years including four years of grace at
7.9 percent interest per annum.
On-Lending Terms:   The Government would on-lend $50.0 million to the Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) for 14 years, includ-
ing 2 years of grace, at the same interest rate as the
Bank loan to finance long and medium-term farm investments
and incremental short-term production costs and $2.8 mil-
lion to the Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation
(OCE) for 14 years, including 2 years of grace at 9 per-
cent interest to finance vegetable quality control centers,
two small producer packing stations, seedling greenhouses
and short term consultants. The balance would be retained
by the Government to help finance civil works and equip-
ment for the research, demonstration and training, the
agricultural extension services, the rural feeder roads
and the port storage facility components, as well as for
the hydrogeological survey and consulting services for the
technical assistance program.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would constitute the first phase of
Morocco's development plan (1979-1985) for off-season
vegetables for export. Out of about 18,000 hectares
planted in off-season vegetables, the proposed project
would cover about 9,000 hectares, the production area
destined for exports. It would be implemented over four
years and would aim at (i) doubling Morocco's exports of
off-season vegetables by introducing modern prodluction
techniques, including greenhouse technology and high-
yielding hybrids, (ii) strengthening subsectora1 produc-
tion planning and monitoring, and (iii) establishing a
separate marketing structure for off-season vegetables.
It would also seek to diversify vegetable exports. At
full development, the project would generate incremental
foreign exchange earnings of $85 million annually, equiv-
alent to about 26 percent of Morocco's agricultural
exports in 1977. It would benefit about 8,000 farm
families and employ the equivalent of an additional
16,000 full-time workers at an average cost of $6,000,
considerably below the cost per job in small-scale indus-
try. Project risks are relatively low as most costs are
divisible and cropping decisions are taken annually by
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
farmers. The major risk relates to marketing uncertain-
ties where the possibility of substitution between crops
limits this risk. In addition, the project exhibits a low
sensitivity to changes in size.
Project Cost Estimates:                       -------- US$ million --------
Local       Foreign       Total
On-farm investment                        17.3         33.1          50.4
Incremental production costs              15.0         12.3         27.3
Agricultural support services              6.1          2.0           8.1
Marketing services                         7.1          2.6           9.7
Feeder roads                               2.3          1.0           3.3
Technical assistance
and consultants                          0.5          0.8          1.3
Subtotal                                  48.3         51.8        100.1
Physical contingencies                     2.0          2.3           4.3
Price contingencies                       11.9         13.3         25.2
Total                                     62.2         67.4         129.6
Of which taxes                            15.8          -            15.8
Financing Plan:               --------------- US$ million ----------------
Benefi- Govern-
Item                    IBRD   OCE   CNCA   ciaries    ment    Total
On-farm investments   34.6    -    11.4    12.3            7.7       66.0
Incremental produc-
tion costs            12.6    -    12.6       8.4        -        33.6
Agricultural support
services               2.0   2.3      -        -        5.7       10.0
Marketing services       6.0   3.8    1.8        1.8       0.6       14.0
Feeder roads             2.0    -        -        -       2.4         4.4
Technical assistance
and consultants        0.8    -       -        -        0.8        1.6
Total                   58.0   6.1   25.8    22.5        17.2       129.6
Estimated               -------------------- US$ million -------------------
Disbursements:          CY79    CY80        CY81       CY82       CY83       CY84
Annual          2        7         13         19         15           2
Cumulative      2        9         22         41         56         58
Rate of Return:       Economic Rate of Return:  46 percent.
Apprdisal Report:    Staff Appraisal Report of the Vegetable Production and
Marketing Project No. 2523-MOR, dated August 16, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$58 million to help finance
a Vegetable Production and Marketing Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
The Government would onlend US$50.0 million equivalent to the Caisse Nationale
de Credit Agricole (CNCA) for 14 years, including 2 years of grace, at the
same interest rate as the Bank loan to finance long and medium-term farm
investments and incremental short-term production costs, and US$2.8 million
equivalent to the Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation (OCE) for 14
years, including 2 years of grace, at 9 percent interest for control centers,
two small producer packing stations, seedling greenhouses and short term
consultants.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-
MOR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic
mission which visited Morocco in February/March 1978 was followed by a basic
economic mission in November 1978. A basic economic report is under prepara-
tion; preliminary findings and conclusions of these missions are reflected
in the following paragraphs. An updating mission is scheduled for September
1979. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        In 1977, Morocco completed the return towards a constitutional
monarchy. Having marshalled a strong national consensus over the Western
Sahara issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and national elec-
tions between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties with platforms
stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections in the larger
cities, while at the provincial level, rural constituents supported Government
candidates, who eventually obtained a majority of 141 seats out of 264 in the
National Assembly. With the Government formed in October 1977, both the
Istiqlal party which had been in the opposition since 1963, and the! Mouvement
Populaire whose main support is in the Berber population returned to political
responsibility. The Cabinet was appointed with the mandate to prepare and
implement economic austerity measures, the first of which were introduced
in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the social development objectives set
out in the 1973-77 Development Plan. A new Cabinet formed in Marchl 1979 is
expected to pursue the same policies.
1/  This Part is identical to paragraphs 2 to 16 of the President"'s Report
No. P-2567-MOR on a Loan for a Second Water Supply Project, dated May 24,
1979, approved on June 11, 1979.



- 2 -
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation became increasingly
unbalanced towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Rapid growth of investments
and imports, carried over from 1974-75 when phosphate export revenues reached
an all-time high, and despite some Government restrictions, did not slow down,
while the world demand for Morocco's main exports, especially phosphate,
recovered only moderately. At the same time, efforts to increase budgetary
savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in investment and
military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced again a large
resource gap (21 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (19 percent of
GDP). To cover these, it sharply increased external borrowing to $1.9
billion (commitments), from $909 million in 1976 and $780 million in 1975;
most were from commercial sources. Despite these borrowings, the country's
net foreign assets stayed at a low level (1.2 months of 1977 imports by
year's end). On the domestic side, external borrowings fueled monetary
expansion which remained rapid in 1977; consumer prices rose 12.5 percent
over 1976 compared to about 8 percent in the previous 2 years.
5.        By and large, the new Government has succeeded in regaining control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Investment has since been reduced by
an estimated 25 percent in real terms, and so has external borrowing which
at $1.3 billion of new commitments was, however, still large and mostly on
commercial terms. The Government has achieved these improvements through
budgetary austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint
in current spending and some tax increases; it applied selective import
restrictions and controls on private credit preserving as much as possible
the growth momentum of private sector output and exports. A good agricultural
crop in 1978 helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in construction
activity largely resulting from cuts in public investment plans; overall, GDP
grew by an estimated 4 percent in real terms in 1978.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gaps and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government has introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives are to further reduce
the budget and current balance of payments deficits, and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects,
education and health, especially insofar as these benefit the neediest popula-
tion groups. Implementation of major public projects not meeting these
criteria has been postponed, while the measures designed to preserve growth in
the private sector have been strengthened. The Government agreed with the IMF
on a short-term financial rehabilitation program for 1979. This program calls
for continued limitation of budgetary expenditures, domestic credit expansion
and new external borrowing, while maintaining selective import restrictions
and credit controls favoring productive private activities. It is aimed at
reducing the overall budget deficit by 15 percent, and narrowing the current
balance of payments deficit by more than 30 percent. Assuming harvests are
equal to those of 1978 and phosphate exports increase by 6 percent in quantity
and 7 percent in value, real GDP growth in 1979 again may still not exceed 4
percent. Gross official reserves would stay around 1.5 months of imports.



- 3 -
7.        While the interim measures may be effective in re-balancing the econ-
omy, because of the short-term constraints on exports and savings, t:hey might
cause a rise in social pressures. The Government is therefore anxious to
resume the more dynamic social policy stance which characterized Moroccan devel-
opment during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation of the 1981-85 Plan has begun and
attention is being given to long-term reforms which are needed if an early
resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is to be achieved.
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I reflect the Governmzent's
keen concern to avoid a liquidity crisis in the next two to three years.
They assume sharp policy adjustments to keep the economy on a financially
viable growth path over the long run, but also reflect the desire to maintain
adequate GDP and employment growth during the interim period, and to achieve
further progress towards the country's social objectives. The projections
show that investment and GDP growth will have to be curtailed for the next
two to three years, given the constraints on savings and exports. In this
period, Morocco will need substantial capital transfers from abroad on terms
as favorable as possible to sustain the project investment and GDP growth.
Beyond 1982, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume more rapid
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.         Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domtestic sav-
ings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, permit some real expansion of original invest-
ment programs, and undertake large capital-intensive projects geared to import
substitution (in particular sugar, chemicals, shipping and steel). Thus the
GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment rose to nearly
32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972. In the process,
Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects not. only in
traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution industries and
physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult sectors such as
rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and socially-oriented
programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve the investment
levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints being domestic
savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP afi:er the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings of only 4.7 percent of GDP in 1977. Successful efforts to raise
public revenues to 28 percent of GDP in 1977 were offset by increases in
current spending, partly for education and health, but particularly for
price subsidies and military expenses. Tax reform measures (which are being
prepared with IMF assistance) and unpopular price policy decisions, such as
reduction of subsidies to urban consumers, farmers and industrial investors,
will be required to increase public savings. Interest rate adjustments to
reflect changes in the rate of domestic price inflation would also be called
for.



- 4 -
11.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 2 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions, such as textiles, export production
and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not aggres-
sively sought; Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC, especially
France. Yet, it has considerable export potential if only products and
markets were diversified. Programs designed to boost foreign exchange earn-
ings are now under preparation particularly for phosphate and its derivatives,
fresh and processed foodstuffs, and tourism. With regard to phosphate, for
example, Morocco and the USSR signed agreements in March 1978 under which
Morocco will export phosphate rock and phosphoric acid for the next 30 years
for possibly up to 10 million tons per year by 1985-86; in return, the USSR
will lend Morocco up to $2 billion on favorable terms to develop its phosphate
export capacity and will export various commodities and goods to Morocco,
including crude oil. These agreements substantially improve Morocco's long-
term prospects for phosphate exports.
12.       While the emphasis on completion of high-return projects will have
to continue, Morocco should shift away from highly capital-intensive, import
substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for phys-
ical infrastructure. This would call for improvements in policy planning and
investment programming. Consultants are currently completing a major study
on industrial investment strategy, which should facilitate better investment
selection. A changed investment pattern should reduce the external resource
gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at lower investment
and import costs than in recent years.
Social Development Strategy
13.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up
to the early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and a
decline in real consumption for the weaker sections of Morocco's population.
As a major objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends.
The Government's strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of
employment creation; (ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and
(iii) specific investment programs to benefit the least favored population
groups.
14        Progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed by
the increased expenditures for social sectors (from DH 1.3 billion in 1972
to DH 3.7 billion in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,
Morocco will not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors, and cuts have been made as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.



15.       With the population growth rate now at about 3 percent, pressure
to provide adequate social services will rise. Despite short-term financial
constraints, efforts will be needed to limit such growth. Consequently,
strengthening health and family planning services is now an integral part of
the Government's social objectives.
External Debt and Debt Service
16.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1973 1(para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 19 to 10
years and average interest rose from 5 to 7.5 percent between 1974 and 1977.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about $70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August ]L978.
From the low levels in 1974-75, Morocco's external debt has risen rapidly to
an estimated $4.0 billion (disbursed only) at the end of 1978, and in that
year debt service amounted to $481 million (18 percent of exports and workers'
remittances). As a result of recent and projected borrowings, debt and debt
service may be expected to increase further, and debt service may exceed 25
percent of exports and workers' remittances by 1980-82, and decline progres-
sively thereafter. The country's net foreign assets would remain al: a rela-
tively low level. Because of the expected upswing in debt service, external
debt management has become more restrictive and selective since 1973. If
debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue this policy
over the next few years. Additional commercial borrowing should be limited,
and efforts should be increased to seek loans on softer terms. Yet, external
borrowing needs would be sizeable. Beyond 1980-82, however, the situation
should progressively improve with the Government firmly controlling domestic
demand and with good long-term prospects for exports and, in particular, with
assured sales of phosphate rock and derivatives. Morocco should therefore be
considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
17.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $221 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and dropped
from $831 million in 1977 to $370 million in 1978. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the
end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 11.2 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 9.5
percent in 1978. By 1983 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 25 percent and 12 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
18.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 41 projects, financing
a total of $1,267.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,026 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling $50 mil-
lion, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for
$25 million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC



- 6 -
investments have amounted to $27.4 million ($25.3 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of July 31, 1979, and notes on
the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays in project
implementation have been caused by management difficulties, and in 1974 cost
overruns increased due to the upsurge in investment activity in Morocco and
the acceleration of inflation. Overall performance in project execution has
since improved and remains satisfactory. Total disbursements as of December
31, 1978, amounted to 72 percent of original appraisal forecasts and to 75
percent of revised forecasts.
19.        Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 24 and 29 percent respec-
tively of total net commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (23
percent), education (12 percent), tourism (6 percent), roads (4 percent),
and urban development (2 percent). Apart from the transfer of resources to
Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 5.5 percent of total fixed
investment in 1970-74), the main objectives of lending were to foster and
strengthen development institutions, provide technical assistance especially
for project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
20.        While these objectives remain, greater emphasis is being given to
prepare projects that support the Government's policy of fostering social
development and improving income distribution. An increasing share of Bank
Group lending will be devoted to projects directly or indirectly developing
the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural income groups and
meeting their basic needs, including, possibly, Bank participation in the
Government's program for promoting integrated regional development, which is
under discussion.
21.        Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, starting in FY1975, improvement in the productivity of rainfed
farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is envisaged but emphasis
will be increasingly given to support small farmers and shepherds and the
development of rainfed areas. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project,
approved in June 1978, directly addresses these objectives in the favorable
cereal producing zone. An integrated rural development project, including
livestock/forestry development, is under preparation in a rainfed zone in
northern Morocco, as is an extensive livestock project in Central Morocco.
A fourth line of credit to CNCA was recently approved.
22.        Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints. The eighth loan to Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-
scale industry component to promote labor intensive investments. This pilot
effort led to the recently approved Integrated Project for Small Scale Industry
Development. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in 1978 will help increase
Morc-co's foreign exchange earnings. Continued lending for industry through



the BNDE is contemplated as well as further lending to Credit Immobilier et
Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development.
23.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of two loans for water
supply, two loans for power generation, a loan for village electrification
and an engineering loan for the preparation of a sewerage project for Casa-
blanca. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups are under
preparation, including a water distribution and sewerage project in Agadir.
24.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary edu-
cation and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,
and to expand facilities in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis on
technical education has been recently approved and preparation has begun on
a fifth project focusing on vocational training.
25.       The Rabat Urban Project (FY1978) was the first Bank-financed project
in the urban sector. Preparation of a follow up project is nearing completion
and would support the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban devel-
opment through the provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social
services and the creation of employment opportunities.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND HORTICULTURAL SUBSECTOR
26.       Agricultural Sector Background.  About 60 percent of Morocco's popu-
lation of about 18 million live in rural areas. Since 1970, population growth
in the rural sector has averaged 1.8 percent per annum compared with 2.9
percent growth overall, reflecting rural-urban migration. In 1977, agricul-
ture contributed about 14 percent of GDP, employed about 40 percent of the
labor force, and accounted for about 35 percent of total exports--a decline
from figures for the early 1970s largely as a result of increased plhosphate
production and exports. Out of a total land area of 50 million hecitares,
7.4 million have soils and moisture suitable for cropping and 20 million are
in semi-arid or mountain regions suitable for grazing and forestry. About
5.8 million hectares are cultivated each year, with 4.5 million in cereals,
500,000 in pulses, 400,000 in fruit trees, 140,000 in vegetables, 60,000
in sugar beet, and the remainder in oilseeds, cotton and forage crops. Most
of Morocco's rainfed areas are characterized by traditional agricultural
practices which result in low crop yields and livestock productivity. Per-
manent irrigation covered 690,000 hectares.
27.       Since 1965 agricultural output grew on average 2.4 percent per
annum, with wide annual fluctuations due to climatic conditions. This growth
was less than the increase in demand for foodstuffs caused by rapid urbaniza-
tion and by income and population growth. The value of food imports increased
on an average 21 percent annually, while the value of food exports grew at 6
percent. A generally adequate food supply was maintained by means of expand-
ing agricultural imports and some switching of exportables to domestic con-
sumption. However, increasing population pressures on cultivable land have



- 8 -
led to a slow decline in per capita consumption levels and some nutritional
deficiencies. Growth of output has been greatest for products for which the
introduction of modern farming techniques has been accepted by farmers and
prices set at attractive prices: sugar beet, sugar cane, milk and vegetables
for processing. For other crops such as cereals and pulses where the Govern-
ment has not yet been successful in modernizing farming practices, and for
crops for which prices have been pegged at insufficiently remunerative levels--
oilseeds, cotton, maize--the Government has met with limited or no success.
28.       The 1978-80 Interim Plan allocated to agriculture $963 million, 18
percent of planned investment, approximately the same percentage as during the
1973-77 Plan period. The intersectorial allocation of investments reflects
the priority given to complete ongoing projects, mostly irrigation projects
with considerable sunk costs: about 57 percent would go for irrigation and
16 percent for extension and rural development. A further $300 million equiv-
alent would be lent for farm investment by the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA).
Agricultural Sector Issues
29.       Until the late 1960s Morocco was consistently a net exporter of
agricultural products. Since then, Government policies emphasizing import
substitution and agricultural development in large irrigated perimeters
coupled with a rapid growth in demand for foodstuffs have led to a constant
deterioration of Morocco's agricultural balance of trade; traditionally
exported products such as cereals, meat and certain fruits and vegetables were
diverted to local markets. The Government is now committed to reversing this
trend and has undertaken projects to increase production on traditionally
farmed lands and to specifically promote production crops with strong export
demand. The proposed project embodies the priority first phase program for
off-season fresh produce, which offers the greatest potential for rapid growth
of exports.
30.       The Government purchases hard wheat and barley at official support
prices and fixes prices for soft wheat, milk, most industrial crops, bread,
sugar and vegetable oils. It also controls imports, foreign exchange transac-
tions, interest rates, and the price of inputs such as fertilizer and high
yielding seeds. Agrarian Reform Cooperatives and Farmers' Associations
receive special subsidies. These price controls and subsidies are adminis-
tratively cumbersome and inefficient: some agricultural prices have been
kept artificially low, discouraging production and encouraging imports. The
urban poor only benefit from a small percentage of consumer food subsidies
while the wealthier farmers benefit most from agricultural input subsidies.
The Government is studying this complex issue and an understanding has been
reached that it would review the study's conclusions and recommendations with
the Bank in the context of ongoing economic and sector discussions. The
horticultural sector does not benefit from special agricultural subsidies
and taxation on agricultural inputs generally exceeds the subsidies available
to horticulturalists.



- 9 -
31.       About 40 percent of the rural labor force is not permanently
employed, and about 45 percent of farm families live at or below the absolute
rural poverty level ($200 per capita in 1978). Despite a rise in the real
average rural per capita income, there is evidence that population pressures
have led to a decline in per capita income in mountain, forest, and arid areas
where employment opportunities have not increased or emigration to other parts
of Morocco or abroad has not been possible. Over the last four years, the
Government has increasingly sought to reach the rural poor through its agri-
cultural projects, including the Bank financed Fes-Karia-Tissa and Doukkala
Irrigation Projects. Studies are progressing on a number of rainfed agricul-
ture, extensive livestock and forestry projects, with a view to prep,aring them
for Bank financing.
32.       Land distribution is relatively skewed:  about 75 percent of farm
families own 5 hectares or less, accounting for 25 percent of agricultural
land. These farms are for the most part below an economically viabLe size
and suffer from excessive fragmentation. Morocco's 1.9 million farms are
divided into 11.6 million parcels, many of which are too small to farm effi-
ciently. Absentee landlord and tenancy arrangements afford tenants little
security and consequently no incentive to improve the land. They have also
unduly allocated agricultural credit in favor of large farms. A number of
land reform measures are currently under study or being carried out on an
experimental basis.  A program for land consolidation on rainfed lands and for
the creation of viable holdings on collective lands is being implemented in
the Meknes Project. Given the labor intensive nature of vegetable production,
land fragmentation would not adversely affect the proposed project.
33.       Agricultural research is excessively theoretical and has developed
in isolation from farm profitability considerations or production priorities.
The extension service is encumbered with administrative tasks, employs agents
with little practical farming experience, and lacks organization, materials,
and a systematic method for extension. Moreover, the salary structure has
become increasingly uncompetitive in attracting and retaining competent
agents. These issues are addressed through the Bank supported Fes-Karia-Tissa
Project. Coordination between agencies responsible for agricultural assis-
tance has also improved. The organization of extension services in the horti-
cultural subsector presents special features which are covered in para. 39.
34.       Direct taxation of the agricultural sector in Morocco has tradition-
ally been maintained at very low levels. The present system institutes a
progressive tax on the assessed value of each farm which, however, is based
on outdated values of land and livestock. The Government is aware of the in-
adequacy of the present system and the desirability of substantially increas-
ing the contribution of the agricultural sector to overall public reviews.
Following a recently completed study of the fiscal system by the IMF, it is
expected that the Government will introduce a tax reform legislation to
Parliament in the autumn incorporating a major revision of agricultural taxes.
This issue would be followed in the context of the ongoing macroeconomic
dialogue between the Government and the Bank.



- 10 -
Horticultural Subsector
35.       Morocco is a traditional producer and exporter of fruits, mostly
citrus, and vegetables with about 70,000 hectares of orchards and 140,000
hectares planted to vegetables. The value of exports of fruits and vegetables
ranks second only to phosphates. During the 1960's exports of citrus in-
creased from about 350,000 to about 600,000 tons per annum. As a result of a
major program to renew plantations during the 1970's, production and exports
are expected to rise to 1.2 million and 720,000 tons respectively by 1980/81.
Morocco is also a major producer and exporter of vegetables. About 20,000
hectares are planted for off-season production of which about 18,000 hectares
in the Atlantic coastal area covered by the proposed project. Most of the
production is grown under open field conditions. Total production in 1978
amounted to about 2.3 million tons of vegetables, of which about 500,000
tons during the November to April off-season. Exports, mostly tomatoes and
potatoes, amounted to 200,000 tons in 1978, below the 275,000 ton average of
the early 1970s.
36.       The decline in Moroccan exports took place during a period of rapid
increase in demand in the European markets for off-season produce, even though
total imports of vegetables into member countries of the European Community
(EC) stagnated as a result of measures taken to protect member countries' own
production between May and October. These measures cut sharply into Morocco's
traditional exports which were concentrated in late spring. Inadequate orga-
nization of the subsector, including an ineffective production programming,
the absence of effective technical extension and inappropriate marketing
practices have hindered efforts to get the large number of small farmers who
produce the bulk of the vegetables to adapt their production to meet evolving
market conditions and to keep abreast of technical developments in production.
This contrasts with the relatively easy adaptation of citrus production which
is typically produced on large, modern and efficiently-run farms.
37.       As a result of the above trends, Morocco, which used to be France's
almost exclusive supplier of off-season vegetables, has seen its market share
decline to about 52 percent. For tomatoes, the drop in volume in exports to
France was mostly compensated by a rapid expansion of sales to Germany. For
other off-season vegetables, France remains the major market, and difficulties
in marketing vegetables resulting in large part from an inappropriate market-
ing strategy, have led to a drop in exports from about 25,000 tons in 1972 to
13,000 tons in 1978. The proposed project directly addresses these issues.
38.       The principal institutions involved in the horticultural subsector
are the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA), the Caisse
Nationale de Cre'dit Agricole (CNCA) and the Office de Commercialisation et
d'Exportation (OCE). MARA has overall responsibility for the agricultural
sector including provision of technical extension advice, carrying out
agronomic research and supporting farmers' cooperatives. In the past MARA's
efforts were principally directed to other products such as sugar and oilseeds.
As a result, the horticultural subsector has been somewhat neglected and MARA
has not developed a corps of extension agents with the specialized technical
expe rtise.



- 11 -
39.       CNCA, an autonomous Government-owned institution, is the principal
source of finance for the agricultural sector. Six regional offices serve
the project area and some 1,700 vegetable farmers, or about 15 percent, have
borrowed from CNCA. A fourth line of credit to CNCA was approved in May 1979,
which covered CNCA's medium and long-term lending program through August 1982,
with the exception of investments included under the proposed project. In the
past, CNCA has been active in supporting vegetable production. It has pro-
vided medium term credit for on-farm investments such as wells, pumps and
irrigation equipment on standard conditions (70 percent of investment cost).
An attempt to finance greenhouses under these conditions in 1978 failed as
most farmers were unable to meet the 30 percent downpayment requirement.
Short term credit to the horticultural sector is generally adequate to meet
the working capital needs of traditional production under open field condi-
tions. The present criteria are, however, insufficient to cover a reasonable
proportion of production costs in the modern sector and have consequently
hampered modernization efforts. This issue is directly addressed by the
proposed project.
40.       OCE was created in 1965 as an autonomous national marketing Board
responsible for the export of agricultural products. Fruits and vegetables
account for about 70 percent of the total. OCE's role includes supervision of
packing and grading stations, quality control, shipment, and sales in foreign
markets. Most of its 2000 staff are located in Casablanca and it also main-
tains an European office in Paris from which it directs its foreign sales.
Operating costs are recovered through a 3.6 percent levy on the c.i.f. price
of exports. During recent years OCE has become increasingly involved at the
production level, both directly and through an affiliated company, the Societeo
Agricole de Services au Maroc (SASMA) which is managed by members of fruit and
vegetable growers' associations. OCE and SASMA work closely together to carry
out applied research and to introduce, demonstrate and extend new production
techniques, including hybrids and greenhouses. Their efforts were initially
directed to large farmers receptive to following modern techniques; since 1978
they have also assisted small farmers grouped into cooperatives. SASMA's
staff is qualified, efficient and highly motivated, thanks in part to a more
favorable salary scale than applied in the public sector. OCE:'s performance
in quality control has been effective, although at the price of a high rejec-
tion rate due to production problems. Its marketing performance for citrus
has been generally successful. However a carrying over of these techniques
for vegetables has proven inappropriate. The proposed project: would reinforce
the extension effort and introduce a gradual but radical change in OCE's
marketing policy for vegetables as well as strengthen its capacity to plan and
monitor production.
Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy
41.       Over recent years, the Bank's strategy in the agricultural sector
has supported the Government's objectives of increasing economic agricultural
production to meet basic food needs and to work towards agricultural self-
sufficiency, while placing increased emphasis on social aspecits, particularly
the inclusion of the rural poor target group and a shift in investments from
large scale irrigation towards rainfed agriculture. It also recognizes the



- 12 -
need to support highly productive export oriented projects as part of a
national policy to promote exports. Within this framework, support of agri-
cultural credit which finances a large percentage of directly productive farm
investments figures importantly and should continue to do so; while irrigation
and small scale agroindustry projects would also be supported in a manner
which would develop their complementarity with rainfed farming.
Performance Under Previous Bank Financed Agricultural Projects
42.       Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to
date 11 projects have been undertaken and supported by $343 million in Bank/
IDA funds ($24 million in IDA credits). They include five irrigation proj-
ects: Sidi Slimane (FY75, completed), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater
(FY75), Doukkala I (FY76) and Doukkala II (FY77); four Agricultural Credit
Projects (FY66, FY73, FY77 and FY79); an Agroindustries and Flood Control
Project (Sebou II, FY74); and two Agricultural Development Projects focussing
on rainfed agriculture in the Meknes (FY75) and Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY78) areas.
Project performance to date is generally satisfactory although irrigation
projects suffered initially from poor coordination between and within partic-
ipating Ministries which resulted in delays in the construction and in acquisi-
tion of irrigation equipment. For the Meknes Project, the major issues, now
resolved, have been the difficulties in establishing and delays in executing
the land redistribution program, as well as insufficient coordination between
the Project Authority and the Central Government.
43.       The First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66 and FY73)
have been audited by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The report
on the first project attributed the project's mixed results principally to
CNCA's shortage of qualified staff and Government's interference in CNCA's
operations by directing it to lend to small farmers and by dissolving a State
company receiving Bank financing without prior consultation with the Bank.
It also reported that the most important achievement was the institutional
development that took place. In its report on the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, OED noted some discrepancies between project execution and the
English language legal documents. It also calculated an economic rate of
return to the project of about 20 percent, which it noted might have been
higher had Morocco enjoyed an effective national agricultural extension
service.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The Government of Morocco requested a Bank loan to help finance its
development plan (1979-85) for off-season vegetables for export. The proposed
project would constitute the first phase of the plan, to which it attaches a
high priority. Out of about 18,000 hectares, planted in off-season vegetables,
the proposed project would cover about 9,000 hectares, the area producing for
export. It would be implemented over four years and aim at (i) doubling
Morocco's exports of off-season vegetables by introducing modern production
techniques, including greenhouse technology and high-yielding hybrids; (ii)



- 13 -
strengthening production planning and monitoring; and (iii) establishing a
separate marketing structure for off-season vegetables. At full development
the project would generate incremental foreign exchange earnings of $85 mil-
lion annually, equivalent to about 8 percent of Morocco's total etxports in
1977 or 26 percent of its agricultural exports in 1977. The agricultural
components would benefit about 8,000 farm families. The project overall would
employ the equivalent of an additional 16,000 full-time workers at an average
cost of $6,000, which compares favorably with the cost per job in small-scale
industry. The project would seek to diversify Moroccan production while
concentrating marketing efforts on the two principal European markets: France
and Germany.
45.       The proposed project was identified in early 1978 following the
issuance of the development plan (1979-85) for off-season vegetables for
export. Project preparation was carried out by the Government with the assis-
tance of several FAO/CP and Bank missions. A Bank appraisal mission visited
Morocco in January 1979. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in
Washington in July, 1979. The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Belkoura
of the Prime Minister's office. An appraisal report of the Morocco: Vege-
table Production and Marketing Project (No. 2523-MOR) dated August 16, 1979
is being distributed separately. The main features of the loan and project
are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Description
46.       The project area consists of a narrow strip along the Atlantic
coast between Kenitra and Agadir (Map No. 14279) where climatic conditions are
suitable for producing off-season vegetables. The project area falls into
five regions and covers a total area of about 100,000 hectares, of which
31,000 hectares are planted to vegetables, including about 18,000 hectares to
off-season vegetables. Soils are suitable throughout the project area. Good
quality water is abundant in the Kenitra and Agadir regions. In the Casa-
blanca, El Jadida and Safi regions known aquifers are fully exploited and
some salinity problems have been encountered locally due to over pumping. In
these areas, the proposed project, which aims at rationalizing and modernizing
existing production, would restrict crops to varieties resistant to saline
water. No increase in cultivated areas is foreseen, water conservation
measures through improvement of irrigation systems would be introduced and
a program of hydrogeological surveys would be carried out to determine the
dynamics of water resources in these areas, monitor water quality and develop
guidelines for the rational use of water resources. Almost all the land is
privately owned and 83 percent of it is cultivated by the owner. Over 80
percent of the farms are smaller than 10 hectares. The area under vegetables
is usually only a small fraction of the total farm size, averaging about 30
percent for all kinds of vegetables and 18 percent for off-season vegetables.
Farms growing off-season vegetables are typically smaller than the average
for the project area as the production process is more labor intensive.
47.       The proposed project would include the following components:



- 14 -
(i) medium and long term on-farm investments for vegetable pro-
duction, including (a) the construction of 1,000 hectares of
production greenhouses and 10 hectares of seedling green-
houses; (b) provision of agricultural equipment on 9,000
hectares; and (c) soil disinfection and improved irrigation
systems on 4,000 hectares of open fields. These investments
would be financed through medium and long term loans to be
provided by CNCA;
(ii) incremental working capital to participating farmers to be
financed through short term agricultural credit to be pro-
vided by CNCA;
(iii) equipment, facilities and staffing to improve existing agri-
cultural support services;
(iv) construction or modernization and equipment of 42 packing
stations, 12 quality control stations and a 6,000 m2 storage
facility in the Port of Agadir to strengthen vegetable market-
ing services;
(v)  rehabilitation of 125 km, and construction of 125 km of feeder
roads; and
(vi) training, technical assistance and a hydrogeological survey.
48.       Greenhouse technology was introduced to Morocco by OCE and SASMA in
1975.  To date about 140 hectares of greenhouses have been constructed, mainly
among the largest and most efficient vegetable growers.  Yields and quality
have been generally promising and confirm Morocco's considerable potential.
Under the proposed project an additional 1000 hectares of unheated plastic
tunnel greenhouses of an improved design would be constructed, of which about
half would be equipped with drip irrigation systems. Over half the green-
houses would be located in the South where climatic conditions are most favor-
able to a large range of vegetables and soft fruit. The inclusion of green-
house production would permit earlier and more precise timing of production,
higher yields per hectare, better quality and protection against climatic
risks. As such it would play an essential role in underpinning OCE's export
strategy and permit OCE to enter marketing agreements with importers. It
would also allow for a greater diversification of crops, including high-value
crops which cannot be grown during the winter months in open field conditions.
About 40 percent of the project's incremental production would come from
greenhouses, representing about 15 percent of total Moroccan exports of off-
season vegetables. The proposed project also includes the construction of 10
hectares of specially equipped greenhouses to produce seedling plants for sale
to farmers. The first 3 hectares would be constructed by OCE at several loca-
tions within the project area. The subsequent 7 hectares would be carried out
by local farmers and cooperatives and financed by CNCA.
49.       Open field production, which would continue to provide the bulk of
Morocco's exports, is constrained by poor agricultural practices and inappro-
priate choice of varieties. Failure to practice crop rotation has led to soil



- 15 -
infestation which, coupled with poor fertilization and pest control, has
resulted in low yields and a high percentage of rejects. The project
would seek to rehabilitate this sector through the introduction of disease-
resistant hybrid varieties, soil disinfection, provision of agricultural
equipment, mostly sprayers and moto-cultivators, and strengthened extension
services. It would also finance rehabilitation of farmers' water distribu-
tion system through the installation of plastic pipes. Replacement of pumps,
rehabilitation of wells and provision of tractors would be financed by CNCA
under the Bank's Fourth Agricultural project - Loan No. 1704-MOR.
50.       Since the working capital requirements of modern off-season vege-
table production are very high, varying between three and seven times the
requirements for traditional production, and since CNCA's resources, which
cover the entire agricultural sector, would not permit it to provide the
additional short-term credit required, the project would finance the incre-
mental short-term credit requirements in the Project Area. Most of this
increase is projected to take place during the execution period of the pro-
posed project. Outside the project area, CNCA would continue to apply its
present lending criteria which provide credit to cover a reasonable proportion
of the working capital requirements of seasonal vegetable production destined
for local markets.
51.       The proposed project would provide infrastructure and equipment to
strengthen agricultural extension services and farmers' cooperatives in the
Project Area. Five development centers would be created and seven existing
ones expanded and staffed by MARA and OCE/SASMA extension agents. Housing,
vehicles and vehicle operating expenses for 32 additional MARA staff would
also be provided. For OCE and SASMA agents, assurances were obtained that
they would be provided with necessary transportation facilities and funds
for their operating expenses (Section 2.08, draft Project Agreement with OCE).
Three training, research and demonstration centers would be constructed,
equipped and staffed to carry out applied research under both greenhouse and
open field conditions and to demonstrate new production techniques. Each
center would include a 0.8 hectare production greenhouse for demonstration
purposes. The proposed project also calls for the creation of 10 inter-
cooperative units to regroup the large number of small service cooperatives
in the project area. For these the proposed project would include the con-
struction of offices, storage space, workshops and milk collection centers.
52.       Vegetable marketing services would be strengthened and extended.
Ten packing stations with a 2,500 ton capacity would be constructed and
equipped to handle incremental production. Thirty existing stations would be
expanded and modernized. In order to handle the production of small farmers
unable to join cooperatives, OCE would construct, equip and operate two 5,000
ton capacity packing stations. Twelve quality control stations would be
constructed and operated by OCE in the principal production areas, thus enabl-
ing OCE to abandon its present practice of dockside control which involves
unnecessary transport of goods failing to meet export standards and gives rise
to unnecessary friction between OCE and the producers. A covered storage
facility of about 6,000 m2 would be constructed at the Port of Agadir to
handle the rapidly increasing fruit and vegetable production of the Souss-
Massa region.



- 16 -
53.       The proposed project would finance the rehabilitation of 125 km and
the construction of 125 km of feeder roads, mostly in the Souss area near
Agadir and the Oualidia region near El Jadida. It would also finance equip-
ment for road maintenance which would be assured by MARA. The project
includes about 86 man-months of consulting services at an average cost of
$6,800 per man-month. Of these, about 74 man-months would be for vegetable
production specialists to be attached to research, demonstration and training
centers and 12 man-months in short-term consultancy to meet specific needs for
marketing, monitoring and evaluation.
Project Implementation
54.       The proposed project would be implemented over four years starting
September 1979. MARA would be responsible for overall project implementation.
It would be primarily responsible for organizing and supporting farmers' coop-
eratives, for agricultural research and for the construction/rehabilitation
and maintenance of feeder roads. It would also participate with OCE/SASMA in
the extension and demonstration programs. CNCA would be responsible for pro-
viding credit and administering the Treasury Advance (para. 59) under the
proposed project. OCE would be primarily responsible for marketing activi-
ties, control of packing stations, the purchase of greenhouses and hybrid
seeds and for the initial production of seedlings. The Ministry of Equipment
(Public Works - MEPN) would be responsible for construction and maintenance of
the port storage facility and the hydrogeological survey. Project coordina-
tion would be entrusted to a National Coordinating Committee consisting of
representatives of MARA, MEPN, OCE, SASMA and CNCA. It would meet at least
every six months to define strategy, set production goals for each region and
coordinate and monitor project activities. Regional Technical Committees
would be established in each of the five major production areas consisting of
the Provincial Director of MARA, and the provincial representatives of OCE,
SASMA and CNCA. These committees would meet to review execution of production
targets, quality requirements and delivery schedules for each crop in their
region. They would organize extension work, determine input requirements,
organize supply, monitor credit needs and carry out the research and training
programs. They would also serve as liaison between OCE and the farmers in
adjusting production to market conditions. The above six committees would be
established by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement).
55.       The extension services under the proposed project would operate from
12 development centers and would have two main objectives: the organization
of farmers into cooperatives and precooperative associations, and the provi-
sion of technical advice. MARA would be responsible for grouping about 5,000
small farmers into about 625 cooperative units of at least eight farmers each
and assisting them in establishing cropping patterns, organizing input and
equipment supply, filling out credit applications and fostering marketing
contacts with OCE. MARA extension agents would also provide assistance to
cooperatively-owned packing and grading stations.
56.       Because of the close relationship between marketing and production
on the one hand and the highly technical advice required for off-season
vegetable production, about 85 technical advisors from OCE and SASMA would be



- 17 -
principally responsible for technical extension to farmers and the supervision
of the greenhouse component which is expected to reach about 500 cooperatives
grouping some 4,000 farmers and 400 individual farmers. Each technical
advisor in the greenhouse program would serve 15 cooperatives or 20 individual
farmers according to a fixed schedule of visits and each technical advisor in
the open field program would be responsible for about 250 hectares. One day
refresher courses would be held fortnightly for technical advisors at the
research and demonstration centers and would stress the action to be taken
during the coming fortnight. In addition, 10 supervisors would be appointed
to backstop groups of 8-9 technical advisors, and would be required to spend
50 percent of their time with technical advisors in the field. They would
also assure the link between the production level and the Regional Coordinat-
ing Committee, and would be responsible for providing estimates of the
quantity, quality and scheduling of production in their areas.
57.       Research, demonstration and training would be carried out in close
cooperation between the research and extension services of MARA, OCE and SASMA
on existing agronomic research stations in the project area and three demons-
tration and training centers to be constructed in their vicinity. Each
station would be responsible for establishing and executing a region-specific
applied research program covering greenhouse and open field production and
addressing farmers' concerns and marketing requirements. The results of this
program would subsequently be demonstrated and disseminated through the exten-
sion services. Two training programs would also be provided: (i) a five-day
training session in basic greenhouse technology for first time applicants for
greenhouses, and (ii) fortnightly training sessions for extension agents. The
research, demonstration and training program for 1979/80 as well as proposals
for staffing, management and operational arrangements (including an opera-
tional budget) would be prepared by MARA and OCE and submitted to the Bank by
December 31, 1979 (Section 3.03, draft Loan Agreement). For subsequent years,
the National Coordinating Committee would be responsible for preparing and
supervising the execution of the research, training and demonstraticn activi-
ties. Specialized assistance in these fields would be provided by consultants
who would be employed by December 31, 1980 on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (Section 3.07, draft Loan Agreement).
58.       The accounting organization and audit system of CNCA, through which
86 percent of the Bank loan would be channelled, were reviewed under the CNCA
IV project and were found satisfactory. The same procedures would be followed
under the proposed project. Other government agencies and OCE would maintain
separate accounts for project work which would be audited by the Mirnistry of
Finance and forwarded to the Bank. The National Coordinating Committee would
be responsible for preparing and sending to the Bank an annual progress report
and for coordinating the preparation of a Project Completion Report.
Lending Terms and Procedures
59.       CNCA's lending procedures, interest rates and loan condit:Lons were
reviewed for the recently approved Fourth Agricultural Project (Loan No.
1704-MOR) and found generally satisfactory. These conditions would also be
adequate for the proposed project and would be maintained with the following



- 18 -
changes to take into account subsector specific conditions. Loans for vege-
table production, in addition to meeting CNCA's creditworthiness criteria,
would require a technical certification from OCE that the applicant is a
vegetable farmer with the required expertise and that he is capable and has
agreed to follow OCE's programming and the technical assistance to be provided
under the project. As for investments in greenhouses, recent experience has
shown that CNCA's requirements that the investor make a 30 percent downpayment
from his own resources is beyond the means of all but the largest farmers
given the high costs, risks and technicity of the investment. To develop
greenhouse production at a rate which will make it possible for OCE to adopt
the proposed marketing policies, promotional financing conditions raising the
financing ratio to 90 percent would be applied under the project to farmers
investing in greenhouses. In order to spread project benefits as widely as
possible, the promotional financing would be limited to the first two hectares
of greenhouses with the further understanding that 60 percent of the addi-
tional funds thus provided would be set aside for farmers owning less than 1/2
hectare of greenhouses. The typical greenhouse financing package meeting the
above conditions would thus consist of a 7-year sub-loan from CNCA at 8.5
percent interest, including two years of grace, to finance 70 percent of the
investment cost, and a two-year Treasury advance bearing 6 percent interest
covering an additional 20 percent of investment costs. The Treasury advance
would be administered and recovered by CNCA under terms of an agreement satis-
factory to the Bank which would be entered into by the Treasury and CNCA
before January 31, 1980. The conditions of greenhouse financing would be
reviewed annually with the Bank (Section 3.01(c), draft Loan Agreement and
Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement with CNCA). CNCA sub-loans for pack-
ing and grading stations would be processed following CNCA's standard agro-
industry criteria and the first two applications for such packing stations
would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval.
Project Costs and Financing
60.       Tables giving project costs and financing are presented in the Loan
and Project Summary. The total project cost is estimated at $129.6 million,
including $15.8 million in taxes and duties, of which $67.4 million or 52 per-
cent would be in foreign exchange. These estimates include physical contin-
gencies of 10 percent on equipment, civil works and on-farm investments and 5
percent for greenhouses, and price contingencies based on projected price
inflation of 9 percent in 1979 and 8 percent thereafter, compared with 12.5
percent in 1977 and 9.1 percent in 1978. Total contingencies amount to 29
percent of baseline costs. The proposed Bank loan of $58 million would be for
15 years including 4 years of grace. It would finance about 51 percent of
the project costs net of taxes. It would cover 86 percent of the project's
foreign exchange component. The remaining project costs would be financed by
OCE ($6.1 million), CNCA ($25.8 million), the Government ($17.2 million) and
the beneficiaries ($22.5 million). The proposed loan would be made to the
Kingdom of Morocco which would on-lend $50.0 million to CNCA to finance long
and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term production costs,
and $2.8 million to OCE for control centers, two small producer stations,
seedling greenhouses and short term consultants. The balance would be
retained by Government to help finance civil works and equipment for the
research, training and demonstration, the agricultural extension services, the



- 19 -
rural feeder roads and the port storage facility components, as well as for
the hydrogeological survey and consulting services for the technical assis-
tance program. The Government loan to CNCA would be for 14 years, including
2 years of grace at the same rate of interest as the Bank loan and its loan to
OCE would be for 14 years, including 2 years of grace at 9 percent interest.
The Government would enter into subsidiary loan agreements with OCE and CNCA
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1979 '(Section
3.01(c), draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
61.       Contracts for farm inputs and farm equipment and machinery totalling
about $14 million would not be suitable for bulk procurement as agricultural
subborrowers would purchase them individually throughout the project execution
period from well established local and foreign commercial channels. Suppliers
of these goods are numerous in Morocco, competition is keen and prices com-
petitive. For greenhouses (about $46 million), well established commercial
channels do not exist in Morocco. To ensure standardization of equipment,
lower prices and timely supplies, OCE, which prefinances this equipment, would
procure it through international competition in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank and would submit tender documents, advertising proce-
dures and a report on the evaluation of bids received to the Bank. Procure-
ment for a large number of small contracts dispersed throughout the project
area and totalling about $9.0 million for housing, buildings, vehicles and
equipment for supporting services, as well as for the construction and rehab-
ilitation of feeder roads, would be procured through local procedures already
determined to be satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts totalling about $8.6
million for construction and installation of machinery for two small producers'
packing stations, quality control centers, storage facilities and the hydro-
geological surveys exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 and contracts for
equipment exceeding $150,000 individually and $1.2 million in the aggregate
would be procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil works and equipment contracts not
exceeding the above amounts would be procured through local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank.  Contracts for civil works and equipment of
cooperative packing stations totalling $6.4 million to be financed by CNCA
would be procured by cooperatives through established commercial channels
provided that (i) the cost of each individual contract for civil works and
equipment does not exceed $300,000 and $150,000 respectively or (ii) the total
cost of the investment does not exceed the equivalent of $1,250,000. Goods
and works in excess of the amounts specified above would be procured following
ICB procedures according to Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
62.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against 45 percent of expenditures
for civil works and equipment; 45 percent of total expenditures for training
and technical assistance; 50 percent of expenditures for the hydrogieological
survey; 75 percent of medium and long term sub-loans extended by CNCA for
on-farm investments, including greenhouses, irrigation and farm equipment;
and 50 percent against annual increments in CNCA sub-loans for short-term



- 20 -
credit to participating farmers under the Project. For the credit component,
the Bank would disburse against CNCA's statements of expenditures under the
procedures applicable to the CNCA IV Project. Estimated annual and cumulative
disbursements are given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Production and Marketing
63.       Morocco enjoys some basic advantages over its competitors in produc-
ing off'season vegetables.  The climate is favorable for production during the
off-season months (No,vember to April) without having recourse to heating; pro-
ductloc;  costs, particularly for labor and energy, are lower than those in the
European countries; it enjoys a relative proximity compared to non-European
competitorsj Moroccan products have a good reputation for quality. Despite
the pncr performance of Moroccan vegetable exports in recent years, prospects
are promising provided the production schedule is advanced into the off-season
months when prices are highest and few competitors are able to supply European
markets at competitive prices and provided the marketing channels for off-
sea-on vegetables are satisfactorily reorganized.
64.       The proposed project, without significantly changing the total area
under off-season vegetables, would diversify production and exports, placing
greater emphasis on peppers, squash, green beans, strawberries and melons and
introducing crops such as celery, lettuce, onions, cucumbers, etc. At full
development in 1986 the area under tomatoes is expected to decrease by 15
percent to about 6,450 ha while production would increase from 228,000 tons to
338,000 tons, and exports from 94,500 to 243,700 tons reflecting a 56 percent
increase in production per hectare and a 160 percent increase in exportable
production per hectare under open field conditions. These figures are based
on conservative yield estimates which have been exceeded by leading farmers
in Morocco. Production of peppers and green beans would more than double to
about 34,000 tons and 9,650 tons respectively and about 25,000 tons of other
crops consisting principally of squash, strawberries, eggplants and melons are
projected.
65.       The major focus would be on the French and German markets, which
have grown rapidly and presently absorb over 95 percent of Moroccan exports.
Although the proposed project seeks to diversify Morocco's production,
tomatoes would remain by far the largest crop. A detailed market analysis
indicates that European imports between November and April have been growing
at about 4 percent per annum for tomatoes and 10 to 25 percent per annum for
other vegetables. This contrasts with a decline in seasonal imports (May to
October) due to restrictive measures adopted by the EC to protect its own
production during this period. Forecast growth in demand in Western Europe
is sufficient to absorb the projected production increase without unduly
affecting the market share of other exporting countries. Given the recognized
superior quality of Moroccan tomatoes which can be delivered at very competi-
tive prices, there is no reason to believe that Morocco would not be able to
regain its previous market share for tomatoes and diversify into other crops,
for which the prospects are brighter and returns better.
66.       Morocco's major competitor in vegetable production is Spain.  Its
admission into the EC could have the effect of further shortening the period
in which imports may freely enter EC markets. However, it is more likely



- 21 -
that Spain's admission, which would exempt it from EC restrictions during
May-June and September-October would encourage Spanish farmers to concentrate
production at this period when it would enjoy a clear competitive advantage
over its EC competitors at the expense of production during the winter
off-season, when costs are higher and its competitive advantage over non-EC
producers less.
67.        In order to take advantage of these potential markets, OCE would
undertake a gradual but fundamental shift in marketing practices according to
a program which would be reviewed annually with the Bank. Most importantly,
OCE would change its marketing organization for vegetables in France. Start-
ing with the most perishable and high-value products (e.g., strawberries,
green beans) and then including larger volume items such as greenhouse toma-
toes, the system of dockside auction sales, which has been successful for
bulky and relatively non-perishable products such as citrus fruits, would be
abandoned in favor of a separate commercial network of importers-distributors
specializing in vegetables and having exclusive rights to annually determined
quotas. These importers-distributors would be responsible to market Moroccan
produce at prices above a floor price set periodically in consultation with
OCE. A network of importers-distributors is being set up by OCE in France and
will be operational by October 31, 1979 (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement
with OCE). This system is considered appropriate, has already been success-
fully implemented by OCE in Germany. It would bring OCE's marketing organ-
ization in line with the organization adopted by major competing countries
exporting to Europe. The new arrangements would also increase OCE's influence
over supply and demand factors and to associate it closely with the vegetable
producers to permit effective planning and monitoring of production for
export. This greater degree of control, especially over greenhouse produc-
tion, would permit OCE to enter into marketing arrangements and enter into
advance contracting with foreign purchasers. The proposed project also help
improve information flows between producers and markets and vice-versa and
strengthen packing and quality control.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       At full development, expected in the seventh year, the net foreign
exchange generated by the proposed project would amount to $85 million,
equivalent to 8 percent of the value of Morocco's total exports in 1977 or 26
percent of its agricultural exports in 1977. It would accelerate economic
growth and raise labor productivity by promoting cultivation of high-value
crops that are labor intensive. It would also have considerable incluced
effects through backward and forward linkages, which have not been ctuantified,
and would directly employ the equivalent of an additional 16,000 full-time
jobs at an average cost of $6,000 per job, of which about 10,000 jobs would be
in vegetable production. About 8,000 farm families out of the 11,000 living
in the project area would benefit directly from the proposed agricultural
investments. These investments are not expected to reach a significant number
of farmers in the rural poverty group, as they would focus on farmers with
experience in producing off-season vegetables and water limitations preclude
an increase in the area under irrigation. However, the project would create
additional seasonal employment opportunities amounting to about 6,000 man-
years annually in vegetable packing and grading, a number of which are expected



- 22 -
to benefit the rural poverty target group.  Because of Morocco's traditionally
low taxation of the agricultural sector (para. 34) recovery of benefits by
Government is expected to be slight during the early years pending the intro-
duction of new tax legislation for the agricultural sector.
69.       The financial rate of return (FRR) of individual crops produced in
the openfield varies between 27 percent for tomatoes and 80 percent for green
beans. These results are not very sensitive to changes in costs or benefits.
A sensitivity analysis of the openfield vegetable farm models shows that the
financial rate of return is relatively insensitive to cost increases but sen-
sitive to beaefit decreases, confirming the relatively speculative character
of off-season vegetable production for exports. Returns on farmers' equity
for open fieid investments are high (above 50 percent) but the risks are
commen-drate.  For the farm as a whole, the overall risk is, however, smaller,
as oni- a part of the land is typically planted to off-season vegetables and
crop di versification is practiced. For greenhouse production an analysis
.,f incremental benefits over the project's openfield production levels was
u.ndctekeol y2elding FRRs varying from 15 percent for melons to 37 percent for
)epper:.-   Gr. enhouse investments and farm budgets including greenhouse produc-
-ion a-e cot very sensitive to changes in costs or benefits.  For greenhouses
the f&--mer's return on equity is lower than for openfield investments and
giiven Lheir hIiigh risks would be only marginally attractive to small and medium
Larmers without the promotional financing scheme proposed under the project.
For the marketing services, FRR's of 32 to 42 percent have been estimated.
The economic analysis results in economic rates of return (ERR) which in all
cases exceed the FRR, varying between 50 and 129 percent for openfield produc-
tion investments, 19 and 44 percent for greenhouse production, and 50 and 80
percent for packing and control stations. For the farm models, the project
investments would result in ERR's ranging between 35 and 123 percent while
for the project overall, a combined ERR of 46 percent was estimated. Overall
project risks are relatively low, as most costs are divisible. Cropping deci-
sions are taken annually by farmers. The major risk relates to marketing
where the level in risk is diminished by the possibility of substitution
between crops. The technology is known and conservative yield and price
assumptions have been used. Sensitivity tests indicate that even a drastic
reduction of the openfield area under tomatoes from 6,000 to 3,000 hectares
would result in an ERR to the project of 17 percent; a 20 percent reduction in
prices and a 20 percent reduction in benefits would reduce the overall ERR to
30 and 25 percent respectively.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and CNCA and between the
Bank and OCE, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 23 -
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Senior Vice President
Attachments
AuRust 22, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  1  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SLEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
PDROCDD                                                 /
LA"N AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - MOST RECENr ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           659.9  t                                             * SAME        SAME     NEXT HICHER
CRICULTURAL      157.8                               HDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOtt       INCODM
1960 jt    1970 Lb ESTIMATE L       RIPION L    CROUP Rd CROUP Jo
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                190.0       290.0    570.0           1438.5      432.3       867.2
ENERGT CONSUtMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL EOUIVALENT)    148.0       180.0    274.0            816.7      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       11.6        14.8      17.7
MLSAN POPULATION (PERCENT or TOTAL) 29.3       32.2      39.5            43.8       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 8M.                      26.0        33.0      39.0 Ia         23.2       42.7        50.8
PER sq. K0. AGRICULTURAL LAND    61.0        74.0    112.0            112.4       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.3        46.4      45.8            46.0       44.9        42.9
15-64 TRS.                        51.7        51.1      51.6            50.6       52.8        53.5
65 nS. AND ABOVE                   4.0         2.3       2.6             3.3        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTE RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.6         2.4       2.4             2.9        2.7         2.5
LnRAN                             6.4         4.0       4.8             5.0        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOOSAND)    50.4        49.2      44.5            45.0       42.2        37.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.2        18.5      13.4            13.7       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4 /       3.4       3.3             3.4        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANYING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOCSANDS)      ..        25.1      68.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WNMEN)   ..         3.0       5.4            14.7       14.2        20.0
P00D AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PE2 CAPITA (1970-100)           118.7       100.0      86.0           107.1      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OT
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
-EQUIEXE!ITS)                  90.0       102.0     108.0            99.2       99.5       105.3
nOTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        64.0      70.5            63.4       56.8        63.0
OF WBHICH ANIMAL AND FCLSE       ..         14.0  i   15.6            16.4       17.5       21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITT LATE      ..          ..        ..              ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTR
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    45.4       50.4      53.0            53.7       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)             149.0  h       ..    130.0             77.7       82.3        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCrET OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                  *           *         51.0        ..            59.1       31.1        56.8
URBAN                              ..        92.0        ..            85.9       68.5        79.0
AL                                 ..        28.0        ..            38.0       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTrAL                             ..        29.0        ..            64.3       37.5        30.9
C1EAN                                        75.0        *-            94.5       69.5        45.4
AL                                 ..         4.0        ..            27.7       25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         9700.0 th  12650.0  12400.0           4271.6    9359.2       2706.8
POPCLATION PIR NURSING PER,ON        ..      2820.0   1300.0           2077.4    2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BD
WTAL                            680.0       660.0    710.0            580.2      786.5       493.9
UVBAN                              ..       460.0        ..           310.0      278.4       229.6
RURAL                      .       ..      2980.0        ..              ..    1358.4       2947.9
ADMSSIONS PER HOSPITAL SCD           ..        15.5      16.5            22.0       19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEROLD
TOTAL                             4.8         5.5        ..             5.4         ..         5.2
URBAN                             4.3         4.9        ..              ..         ..         5.0
RUAL                              5.1         5.8        ..              ..         ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUNBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.2         2.4        ..              ..         ..         2.0
URBAN                             2.1         2.1        ..             1.8        2.3         1.3
RURAL                             2.3         2.6        ..              ..         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DIWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             76.0 /        ..       ..            40.3       28.3        64.1
URBAN                             85.4 /1         4    55 0                                    67.J
RURAL                             31.0 .                  *-            12:;       l.3         347.1
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. .3_4.1 



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          PageL     2  of  6
HOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVIRAGES
YO)ROCCO                                                   /s
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAllE       SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      CEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJ3;STED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLYARY:     TDTAL                  47.0         52.0       65.0             80.8        75.8         99.8
FEMALE                27.0         37.0       *7.0             61.8        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   5.0         13.0       1L7.0            23.6        17.7         33.8
FENLALE                2.0          7.0       12.0             18.2        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECIDNDARY)   ..           2.0        3 O              6.7         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                             43.0         34.0       40.0             31.5        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                             *-         20.0       22.0             22.3        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          17.0        21.0       28.0              50.1       63.7          71.8
CONSLUM?7ION
PASS-SGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         15.0       18.0             14.5         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PO?CLATION                          46.0         60.0       77.0            125.8        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         11.0       23.0             34.5        14.1         23.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOCSAND POPULATION                   22.0         16.0       14.0              17.4        16.3        45.2
CINEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..        1.6               1.6         1.6          4.6
EKPLOYI(ENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3250.0       3980.0    4930.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    10.6         15.2       19.0              9.3        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.4         49.9       42.5             42.0        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.3         14.9       18.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.0         26.3       27.0              26.9        37.8         13.8
MALE                                   50.1        44.5       44.4              46.6        50.3        48.1
FEKALE                                 5.9           8.0      10.3               5.3       20.9          17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 2.0          1.9       1.8               1.9         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCE!T OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 /k        20.0 Lk      ..                .,       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3 Ik        49.0 /k      ..                .        48.9         52.3
LOW.EST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0 /k        4.0 /k      ..                ..        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 Ak        12.0 /k      ..                ..       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TA tGET GROUPS
ESTLMATE) ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              107.0        157.0      288.0                ..      155.9         L91.9
RURAL                               66.0        101.0      174.0            142.0        97.9        193.1
ESTLMSATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      189.0            236.1       143.7        319.8
RUAL                                   ..          ..         ..            144.7        87.3        197.7
ESTDIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               59.0         39.0       34.0              21.5       22.9         19.8
RLUAL                               49.0         45.0       45.0             37.4        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means. excLuding the extrem
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries aong the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
sc    North Africa 6 Middle East;   /d   Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita. 1976);    /f  Including Moroccan provinces in Western Sahara;   L   Excludea
Moroccan provinces in W. Sahara;   /h  1962;    I  Av. 1964-66;  Li  Brick building only;   A   Consumption
expenditures of households.
Septeber. 1978



- 26 -                                                                 ANNEX I
DVNTO  07 &SLrMWagc~ 3of 6
J"A: The adju.s -group, averages for each Indicator are pop.lariom-wlihted geometric omeas, excluding the extreme, valumes of ch. indicato- and rno .Ace
populated country in each~ sroup. Coversge of covattries among tha indicators depends ou availlbility of data and is not uniform. Due. to lach of deto,
grupaerages fo, Capital Saopla Oil Exporters and ieditators of access to watar end excrete disposal. honaing. idcom  distribution and po-erty Ate
oilaple. pepulation-weighted ageomtria eeman without the exclualon of "trams valsas.
L.hl_M%AE  (thousand eq. ke)                                                                Ponulatiock por hospital bad - total, urban, end rural - Population  (tta.-!
To-tal - Total surface area  coaprisisng lend area and inland .&arar.                         orban, and rural) divided by their r..pactive number of ho.pit.1 cods
Eipricurtul - Most recent estimate Of agricultural area. used temporarily                    availasble in public sod private general adpcaiedhospita.!  ar  re-
or permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen. gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are  sotablIsItmeots praraneotl! sturf-e   '
lie fallo..                                                                                at lesst one physician.  Establishnents providzr.g principally Cutc~diai
cars are no  included.  Rural hospit.ls.  however, tocluda health and  -od-
GNP FER. CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita ostixata. at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanantly st.ff.d bv a physIian.  (but byans-dic.l -0
cslculatad by same convarsion method aso World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistast. nurse, mid-ife., etc.) which offer to-patient acccms.da-i- n cd
1960. 1970. and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited renge of medicalfcl1 is
Admissions per hospital hed - rotal eumber of adeissions to or disCharges
eNERtGY coN4sLIMCON PER CAPITA - Aanual consumption of cowmrcial energy                        from hospitals divided by the nunber of heda.
(coal end lignite, petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. owclaar and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent par capita.                      HOUSING
Average sixe of household (persons par household) - total. rban, and rotal -
pPOPULATION A.ND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total popultion, mid-vesr felIII=)  - As Of JUly 1; If not available,                        and their main meols.  A boarder or lodger may or myp not ~s included in
avrg   fIoend-year eaiats   960, 197, and 1977 data,                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical defioltions of bo-ne
Uthan population foercent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold very.
tion; different definitions of urban .rea. may affect oceparability                     Av-rase number of persons oer room  - total,  Orbsn, and rural - Average nn
of data Among countries,                                                                   bar of persons per rove in all, urban, and rure1 occupied Conventtcoal
Poplaton  ensty                                                                          d-ellings, respectively.  Dwelling. exclude non-permanent s'roctures cod
Pe    o.k.-iMid-year population per square kilometer (100 bectares)                  unccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                           Access to electricity (percent of dweIlina.) - total, urban, and rural1 -
Pe r so. h. ugi.uture land - Computed as above, for agricultural land                       Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
P.pulation am. structure (percent) - Children (I-li peers), working-age
(l5-64 vsars(, and retired (is years and over) as parceotages of mid-                 EDUCATION
ona.r population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population arowth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total. and female - Total and feale enrollment of alt aes.
growth rates of total end  rbao mid-year populations for :906,at the primary level ae pernertgage  of repcle primary school-eqs
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations ; normally Includes children aged h-Il years but adjueted fo-
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Aannul live hirthm per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with uciversal odu-
old-year population; nan-year arithmetic averagam ending in i960 And                       cation enrollment may exceed 110 -ercent sinc.enoe pupils arm helow o
1970 and Piva-year average ending in 1975 for moat recant estimate,                        abvov  the official school age.
Crude death rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand Of old-                       iSc.ndary school - total, and female - Computed us above; secondary nduCa
y.ar population; ron-year  rnithtic  arrae nding in 1960 and 1970                          t100 r          euna   t It...t four yoacs Of approvd prisary toiitc;prc-
and five.-year  -avrage ending In 1975 for most recent estimate,                           video general vocation.. 1or teacher training intucoofor pup:.1-
C;roon reproduction rate - Average number of daughters A woman will beer                     usually of 12 to I7 vears of age; Correspondenca  cou..ses are genra-:.
10  art nornal reproductive period if she experiences  present age-                        ...cludad.
specidic fertilIty -ates; ..uuelly five-year evrarges codiog In 1960,                   Vocational onroll.ont (p.rcent of secondary) - VoCoconti            001to-co  0
1970. And 1971.                                                                            clods technical.  incuettlal, or other  r              hrno ich uperatoclcoroti
Pomii, Platting - -ccp-crs. ....ual (thousands) - Annual number Of                           or as d.partmsnta of  -eccdary institutions.
uCcoptoro of birth-control d-idoes under auspIces of national family                   PupIl-teacher ratio - primary,_and necondary -  otul. student.  otldc
ploo-iog program.                                                                          primary and seco ndary Iav-te divided by -aub-v   f teachers  to tiOc-rro-
Pamo.  clonioc- ..ors (percent of sacreid women) - F-ro-taae of                          spendinglves
o   ...o omn of chtld-b.aring age (15-hi years)  ho use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percnt) - lIterate  Adults  (shin to read and  tt.0
devices no all carried woman in s&ane . ageroup.                                           a percentage of total adult popula.tion aged 15  eAsand oVer.
FOOD ANiD NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
indax of food productIon per fc:pit?a (97O-lO0) - Index number of per                     Passenger oars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars compruse .OOtr c.rS
capita annual production of all fd Commodities.                                          ..atise  Ieas than  isiht pasos;scludos ambulances.. h-oros  ane   illtary
Per Capita supply of calories (percent Of resuireamen) - Computed from                     vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per cApita                 Radio receivers (par thousand populatIon)1 - All types of recelv-rn  fol r-di
yer day.  AvailAble supplies comprise doneetic production.  imports less                 broadcast. to general public per th ..o..d of ......lat-o; e-cldes -unl.c. nol
exprts, and Changes in stock.  Met supplies  exclude Animal feed,.*ased,                 receivers, in Countries and 1n years oben registrutto- of radIo sats va  it
quasntitIe.s ted in food procassing. and lo.sse  in distribution.  Re-                   effect; duta for recent years nay not be cumparavtc 50cC noet Co.-tries
wucmOsesre estimated by FAO based on physiological maeed  for nor-                ubolished licensing.-
vol activity and h- Ith considering environmental temperatrure  body                   TV receivers (per thousand popu.latin) - TV cete.ivers 'ro  broadust to  oe.
weight., .ao und sax dimnribonions of pop.lanlen, and allowing 10 pen-                     public par thousand populatton; enclud.s unlIcensed TV receiver  in z000-
Cent for waste  tc household level.                                                        tries end In yeers when registration of TV sets use in effect.
'or capita .uPoly of protein (grams p.Lr   y  - protein content of par                    Newsapepr circulation (,en tho ....d p-sul.tion) - Shows tho ovrage cti.--
capiro oet supply offodprda. ot supply of food io defined as                               ti.n of "dIsly general Interest oeusyaper". defined asa pot tdito  p.:i 
ahoce.  iaqcirem.ncs for all coun.trims oxtahilahad. by USDA provide for                   cation devoted pri-avfly to recordio.g g.nera1 news.  Itis co-niderdd 0
a*nioloc   Allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     he  daily" if it a.ppear  at Il.ser four t4nes o ..eek.
ofanimal and pulse protein, of which if grams should he Animal protein.                 Cinema annual attendance oe- capits per yeer - ha...  cv tho u.ber vitcir
These stnad    r   oerta   hs fy  grams of total protein and                              sold during the year. including adisooto driv-it ainan..an s    -bhile
31  rams of animal prorco inAs An ovra efr the world, propose.d by                        .nits..
FAC in the Third Wforld Food Survey.
Par capita procelo supply from  Animal and piles  - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
d.riv-d from An.ml  ad poises in gram   per day.                                       Total labor ferns (thou...and) - Eccoomically otdes  prsons,  -inclding c,r.eJ
Child, fagse  1-4)   ortalI-ty rate (per thous..and) - Annual deaths pen thous-              forces and unemployed hut occluding hOunawi-o. st-ints, et-c. but-.
und in ago group 1-h years, to Children in this age group.                                 tions In various... cutries ore sot cooparanle.
Fenal. (percent) - Pe.A.L. labor force us parcentage of total lobor forc..
HE-kLT-H                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Asricu1tur  (p.,..nt) - Labor force 'o farming, forenry, hunti9ngcd fiscirg
lIfe expectancy at birth (years) - Average nueber of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
renaloing at birth; usually fIve-year averages ending in 1960. 1970.                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mnling,..cnstru.tir. manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity. water and gas Am percentage of tote) labor force.
Infant mortality rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants undr                     P.rticipatt.n rate (percent) - total. mii.and female - Total, mala, and
one year Of age per thousan.d live birhta.                                                 '0 1. lbor Force as percentages of thei.          epetv   p.po1LoiuC-.
Accas. t  o.sfe u-tar (percent of nopulation) - total. urban. and rural -                    These sre  7iLe'  adjus ted participstioertes.... relocting oc.-se
luaher of people (total, urban. and rural) with reasonable access to                       str-tro- of tho  popultion.  -nd lton  tine   r-nd.
safe cater supply (to-lcd.s treated surface waters or untr..erd but                    Iconomlc dependency redo. - Ratio of pvpulortcev  -od-  15 -f vS ad ove-t
uncontaminated water such As that fromm protected borehole, springs,                       the labor force i co age ro-pil-koo
ond sanitary .sIlel as percentages of their respectivep-            ltos
lv on urban area A public fountaio or standpost located not norm                      INCOME DISTRISLI1N
thn200 .acare from  a 'house nay he considered as being within rae-                  Percentageo of private incone (hotth in cash cod hoid) recoivec hr richn
sonble accs  of chat hos. In rural areas reasonable access would                           percenc, richest 20 percent, poorest 10 parCoor, and poo..o-t -C porzocr
imply that the housewife or nexber  of the house.hold do not have tO                       of hoceaholde.
spend a disproportiooata part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                           pOVER7Y CARGET iROU'PS
Access co ecreat  disposal (p.r...t of p.pulatiaa(  - total, urban. and                   Estinatad absolute poverty i.oone 1-v1 (USS per :aptra) -_,rOon act  :ri
,-ro  - lumber of people (total, urban, and rural) u.."ad by excrac                          Asout  povertyv- onem  level Is that coo              -.lve  below c,,,ch ot:iA
disposal us percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requivomnto  Co Oct
disposal say Icdethe collectiop end disposal, with Or without                              affordable.
Zrecnot,   f hmansocetaand waste-wter by water-borne sysct-                     Esti.aLed relacire p.ovrty Income 1eve  (IS) cer c-oiba) -  rcban and   --tO
or. t'  t      hhe  Is of pot privis  nd similar installations.                            Relative poverty Income level iu that income level leus than  =r-.iirc
,,pulat1cv our ?hy*icline - Popolario  divided bY number of pr-ottolng                        yen Capita per...nal intono of the Cooctry.
1hysicia.e qualified from  a medical school at ......rsity level.                       E.tImated population below- poverty income l.vel  yPercent) - orhan ond  -oI-l
Pooulalcn p ranrina  erson - Pop.l.tion divded by number of                              Percent of populatioc  u.rban end rural) who ore eith.r 'bs.iut. poor. c
proctic  -  nsmle and feasle graduate nurses, prectical nurses, and                        "relative poor  whichevr is greater.
ositt .rse..
foononc-ic and Social Cata Dichulo-
onoic Analysi  s ad Pro_ctioon Dopattn-r



*iN   a                                                                                                  .    .............
10001'ufl   -   20   p.... ......
s~~.r   i; : e:~                               n 0        n0          C     f   1e 2024'7  *                   C     O0.oc    O   ti.. -
I.    :.12Z  .a  .....    r R.-                                                  r
....~..    r,ab..~                - 220                a  C            ...........tn.o.gor
g~~~~  ~                                     I   "7       ' or       0 -  _ n                              O0 Cabr.-
,,. *e   lit-C--i.   C                                                                                                                              .CC*  0,' . .
n o  ' ! w r :- r a - . N-w-     N_ @-. . . .    . . .  ..  . .       -!      .        .  . .
co        r 1  *   . . . ..     . .    a.-.. era    f-            .           . *   *               t*  ou.-eo a.-. o.
,   *.z                  a        zo-        -  o       2:                         rtit.   io.ta    O . ......    o.
o .. oo            o . ..    . .                                                                S  0...*  tC4 .....  .. ...  .
.    rea.. .    .      .        ..                                                    .                                  .e. .a. . .   .        n.
.*     . a. .     .    .    .                                     0.2. . ..    .    . .. . . ..    .    . . ,. .  .    . . .  .- .*'t. ...V .0 .    . 
-.    S       . 0  ..             ..    ..2        . .   .00 .                       .. . .....           .        .    .3 .    . . .  .t   ea     - 
3.  4                                         7-^                                -wX- Crn 0-0  4  r   0C-    . C      CC~    , ti..    1
,..                 .    .    . . . . .. . ... ..                  - . - . .    .      .       .      .       .             a-'   . .  - . .   . . .
-. . . . . .    .    . . . . . . .    .    . . ..... . ..... . ....* .0 Z                                                .              - . . .    .
0  0            4   0                           2                 0                             (    -* @-   _ -   00   0-  O     o00 0 0 0 4       
*        a                                    0                                                     U- ---               _ o  -     
I 0r...NO__  n   *  O_** 3 . 
a     e. o                                            OO_Fo_*                                                    0 00 o o 4 
a.9                                                                                                      -i   _-   I-j * ;0                      -        |
*                                                                          * ea  -                        ea                ito^  r -.A,    . 0   s
-e              0._NN it.                                                         e r -          ..  e e*   0  ea     @eoe    *             i -
:   ....:.. *.. ,.   ......   t .0             0.O......rl0c ..                      4a             a           -  .svew   .*e**   
'                                                                           *   *     w~~~~~~~~~i   *             -2     -Vee , 
*             0rN 00000    _. N0 0005. SDor7_e 4440                                  000                       3*O o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* * 0*;.  00 0 0  00   0 *0   * ..   e o          a. a.oaoboo3
i**                      **         -*                                                         0   *   S** 010         --    o~**   O* 0OotOOOOeOs,
01. uee    sN0.   _ _a e r.O*          i              S
w *                  o *  -  -  . O  oC o*.   o ..             e                               e4   4    C0      0.      0                    *     o        -       
i~~~~~ .0 ..a-4                                                                                          00l-,00
*~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _00  S  200 02  i0...  i4.   *.0   e 
*..oo   a          000   000**                      e*o@ w             * * ***      *0 00 4  I   4.-  C.o   ot 02  _0 0 0* 00  .o..o
*                                                                                                                                                  .     *        a-**!    ; a      
oCetoc~ ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,0= 0  00                                                                                  C00O   Nr        
4~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ i -                                                                                 C     4 0                  i 
*.o.~~~~~~~~~                                    ~         ~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _00e  *=0  _0 0 0 0 0 _ _ e        i***' 
3           *     0                                                                                9   ea   0004   S.*~  0                         *''* *w**      *N O OR3
.y                                                                                             .5  -.. E
.4*0                                                         10.-00 0  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    -              . IC- 



- 28 -
AITACH 9ENT  4A, BALANCE OF PAYMlNTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                    P.S-   5 of 6
CRILL104I   OF US DOLLARS# CURRENT MARKET PRICES)
Actucls                                                           Projected 5/
1          .-,2               1977       1976 1979 1L9,0                 1981      1982 ,1,9v    * 28703 -2                 .
A. SQ4MANY  UF KALAMCF   P P9AYM6NTS                 *          *         *         *         *         *           *                                                  A *  6
J. EAPQRTS: ICL  hFJ                            555 0    949,0   1717.01/096.8LO] 2240.0   2783,0    3316.0   3924.0   4592,0   533T,0   930b,0  16059.0
C, IMPoHTs, EXCL, NFS                           b23,0    97e,o   1519S0  912 60  395490  3032.0   6093,0   4302.0   5105.0    3                        0       14n c2,o
3. RESOURCE BALANCF                             .68.0    .27o0 .1802.0 *225S,0 0*714,0  *849.0   .72990  .578,0  -5t300  .396.9  .097,0  .s83i0
4, NET FACTUR  StR09I0 S                        .07,0       1770    378,0    379.0    a16.0    167.0           353.0    371.0    414.0    951.0    6 0    951,0
4.1, NET INTERtSY PAYMNTs                       .17,0    *29q0   .57,0   .129,0  .187.0  .236,0    .290.0   -319.0  .325,0   .324.0   .447,0   .72a,0
4,9,  NT I ONVESTMENT  I-CUM6                   - 2.0      -28.0    -42.0    - 29.0   -54.0        .98,0   .109.0  -120.0  .112.0  ,154.0  .150.0  .150,0
4,3, .4RKERIS REMITIANCES                        41,0    139,0    S47,0    589.0    783.0    351.0            804.0    860,0    921 0    9e5,0   1313.0   1853,0
4,4  (JTHko  (NET)                             .520    .36,0    .70.0    .38.0    *B4,0    .50.0             -50.0    .50,0    .50.0    -30.0    .so.0    .so,0
S. CkRRENT TRAhNFERSCNtT)                        13,0       92,0      eS,o      S2.0       8.0      468,0       52,0      55.0      56.0       63.0      83,0    116.0
b. CU9H6'hN  ACC61 NT7 HALA4 CE                 *92,r       S.S0 .135,.0  .1'27.0  1250.0   *434,0   .322,0   .152.0    .41.0    .2e.u -1334.0    a54,0
7, PoovATE 0141C9  INVES7TENI (NLT)               9,0      24,0       36,o      53.0      53,0      70,0        77.0      ss,0      93,0    102.0    150.0    291,0
. PUDLIC M & LI LOANS                               A                                                   *         *          *               *
0,1. DlSbu9SEPENTS                               88.0    I31. 0    72.0   1213.0    792.0    82310             966.0    933.0    94e,0   1 09.0          II. 0   1O 69,0
b,2, 4EPAYMLNIS                                 .29 0    .78,0    .89.0   .105.0    294 .0  .426 0    .652,0   .789.0   .8 93,0  .B5S.0   .9S,0 C 1954,0
b,3,  NE 7 DI3 80 6EMt,Ib                        59, 0       3 0   648,0   1Ib8,0    498.0    397,0            314.0    144,0        49 0    233.0   1466.0   .3H5.0
9, SH09T TEAr CAPITAL  (Nth)                    *18.0    -32,0        29.0      68.0      .5.0          *           *         *          *
0.NtL ULSE OF IMF   L3113URCES                       0     12,0    195,0            *     34,0      70,0         8.0     91,0       12.4      11,0          *
11, 1APIT.L N.E.3.   2/                         .32.0      9s,0    459.0    579.0    .38.0                                              A *  ,  6                      *
14.C1ANGE  I  9tbckVES                         _ 19,0    .75,0   -114,0    -41.0         32.0      37.0       .6.0       149.0    .89,0   .298.0   -26e. u  .20.0
13.Lt VEL IIF RSVEO                                  * E                 *                                          6         6         6 *
13.1. AMUUNI                                     23.0    237 0   491,0    532,0    300.0    66 30              524,0    5o0.0    599.0    697,0   1.76,0   1086.0
132, MONZtH'S  I 9PURTS                           0,4        2,9       2,0       3,8      15         1 5        I,6        1.5       1.5       1,        3,9       2,0
b. GkAhT b LuN u    CU9mmlt15                        *         *         *          *           T                   * A  a                         *         * 6
L. OFQPICIAL G0NTS                               25,0       17.0      15,0      10,0                                                    a *  ,  *  *  *
C, T016AL PULIL M i LT LONS                     b8,0    179,0    909,0   1930.0  1t44,0                *                          *         *
2,1.  18RD/IDA                                    8,0      97 0    I5SG0    l68.0    1330               *                     *0
2Zd.  uTHIO  lVr'L  INSTITUTOuNS                     0         0       4,0      10.0      17,0          *           6                    *         *         .
.3.  G0IYERE4NTS                                60.0      b3.0    949,0    6s3.0    220,0              A           .         *          *         .         ,
C,4, SUPPLIWR0  CRL0T1S                              0      16.0       d,0    I163.0       9,0          *     *               *          *         *A
e,5. CU"tMERCIAL  8ANKS                              0       3,0    b03,0    93e.0    96S,0             6           *         *          *
C. mEmO ITEM                                                              A *   *   *         *            *       *
1, GRANT ELEMENTl)                                   ,       0 6 10,6  13,9     I1,2       6,9          6
C, A9VRAG6  INTERESOtl)                              A       535       7.2       7,5       7,5          *           *         *          *
3, AVERA6L MATUMIT t0tARS)                          *     22 3       11.7      10,1       7.3 5                    ,         *          *         *
,,,,,,___,__,,.,,...........................................................,,,,,,.  .................., , _...._..... .. :......v.........                          ....
1/   Including  special military import pay.ent. wh,ch Are tentatively estimated by the mission at
$590  illior in 1976 and $530 million in 1977.                                                                                                  M-rEN  rP  1979
EMENA 1P fic
V1   Includtng grent..
3/   Projections are being revised by the Bsic Economic Mi,.ion.



*  .~    ~ ~ ~ ~~    .   .  ....  
b j * *   oo   o    o S   0  a  o * o  v   #  X o *  00.0           *                                         .
*     ,,,S          O       .          ..               a           .. . J                  .         .........               .
*00|           41    0 I       A0  O  
a *                *    0 . 0          0 - .      O                  O                                       *                     a _ ~ O F # ~ _ ~ .   . .   .     .   .    .   . *   .   * .   .-
*  -.  -00     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      W O..                          .         ....               
*      a           -                                                                                                               *       0-*w     td      -
S       a1          0  0 0  0   1S         ; C -.   '5                  '                                                            S
S   5 ..        ..           . 5 .                                            S~~.    . .      . .      . .    
{~~~0                            saN.             .410         nFzt          -c    z laS               
*              a                                                                                                                            a      i             
*  *         o o 000 o          0.-       S                  4*0r                                                  S   s w ._a s www *          
,_   atw            * ...                .5                                                       .. .  -  .   .
*     oS             4'404             0045 O                          1 
0. ela-~ 5 a::   ^ U        ~  ~0.
_ *       *                                             -                                                                                a                 
*                                                                                                                                   a j   , _ t *   -*  N   ,s,,   w -  ,   *    * C w    w  _  ,^ o  
a~ ~~1   000   C  Os. _                                    4.  S enN                                                          5  l* ODZ X~0 WW_oaeo 
00C                .4              4 oo                                                                         a -    -
j                                                                              . _  .           . .    .
OS ,                40                               IC         -.-  j 
C C            0 0 0       5                   t l                              o                                       O  1
.1    a               W           <a0>2                 C    S ~                  0   
;l     z a                                                                                                                      S                          
* x         gszi       *    SC    0000                               fiZr_    #500
* * -       -      .00             N 1o      _                  _                                                                 ;  -  _   5   ;1 oNo   



-30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of S
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of July 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                             US$Million
Creidt                                                      Amount  (less cancellations)
Number      Year     Borrower                Purpose        Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Thirteen   Loans    Fully disbursed                         214.9
Four       Credits  Fully disbursed                                    36.0
643       1969      Kingdom of Morocco    Irrigation        46.0                   0.3
850       1972      ONEP                    Water Supply   48.0                    4.5
955       1974      Kingdom of Morocco    Highway           29.0                   3.9
1017       1974      Maroc-Phosphore         Industry        50.0                   4.4
1018       1974      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture    32.0                     12.5
1061       1974      BNDE                    DFC             20.0                   1.5
555       1975      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                 14.0        13.7
1123        1975     Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture    18.5                      7.9
1201       1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture    30.0                     17.3
1202       1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism           21.0                  18.4
1220-T     1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Education         25.0                  25.0
1279       1976      CIH                     DFC (Tourism)  25.0                    5.1
1299       1976      Kingdom of Morocco    Power             49.0                  18.8
1361        1977     CNCA                    Agriculture    35.0                   12.3
1383        1977     CIOR                    Industry        45.0                   3.4
1416       1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture    41.0                     40.3
1428       1977      BNDE                    DFC             45.0                  40.9
S-7       1977      Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering         1.5                  1.5
1528       1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Develop. 18.0                     18.0
1602       1978      Kingdom of Morocco    Fes Karia Tissa 65.0                    65.0
1625        1978     Maroc-Phosphore         Industry        50.0                  32.4
1681 2/    1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Education        113.0                 113.0
1687 2/    1979      Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)         25.0                  25.0
1695 2/    1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Power             42.0                  42.0
1704 2     1979      CNCA                    Agriculture    70.0                   70.0
1724 2/    1979      Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply   49.0                     49.0
Total                                                  1,217.9      50.0       646.1
of which has been repaid                               136.0       0.4
Total now outstanding                                  1,081.9      49.6
Amount sold                      20.4
of which has been repaid        7.3                     13.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                         1,068.8      49.6
Total undisbursed                                        632.4      13.7       646.1
NOTES
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment
2/ Signed, but not yet effective
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of July 31, 1979)
US$Million
Loan     Equity      Total
1963/1978      BNDE                  Develop. Bank         .---       2.7         2.7
1966           CIL                   Canning Factory       0.9        0.5         1.4
1976           Marrakech Cement      Cement Factory        ---        1.3         1.3
1977           Temara Cement          Cement Factory       4.8        2.4         7.2
1979           Agadir                 Cement Factory      12.5        2.3        14.8
Total Gross Commitments                               18.2        9.2        27.4
less cnacellation, terminations
repayments and sales                                 0.9        1.2         2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                   17.3        8.0        25.3
Total undisbursed                                   12.5        2.8        15.3



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2' of 8 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss 1  Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Additional infrastructure for
the project area, including a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: October 31.
1979.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed by Fall 1979;
training courses are presently being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff increases were implemented in October 1977, the higher revenues did
not compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has
established an interministerial commission to review the situation.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - is now almost complete an,d the mainte-
nance equipment and highway improvement programs are complete. Work on the
contract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Trarnsport Plan-
ning Office in the Ministry of Public Works is proceeding satisfaLctorily.
Ln. No. 1017 Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project was mechanically completed in October 1976 and the plant
is now in commercial operation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being itaken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness:  February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on
schedule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads program was com-
pleted in 1977, and the farm roads program in 1978. The Government recently
requested that funds earmarked for the construction of flood protection dykes
be transferred to other infrastructure works related to the Sebou I and II
projects, in view of the high costs of such works, the economic benefits which
are less than originally estimated and the advancement of the construction of
the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of flooding. A decision on
this request is under review. The study on pollution control is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily. Since the start of the project, the Ministry of Public
Health initiated a nationwide survey and control program of bilharzia; a
separate survey on the Rharb plain is no longer required.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in line
with appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 59 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed on about 55 percent of the project area. Works related to the
social components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are
now underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco have resulted in cutbacks
in the operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel.
While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped so far,
developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put under
irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1981.
The Project initially faced substantial delays in project imple-
mentation. The studies are now underway, and commitments of funds under the
project have been initiated. Project management and the coordination of
project activities between the project authority and the central offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture have improved but continue to require close
monitoring. A revised land reform and redistribution program which meets the
project's objectives is currently under preparation.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1201  Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing] Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,200 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202  Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Forestry land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by the end of 1979. The
implementation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is slow with the exception of the rural development and
extension training center, construction of which has recently started. All
sites have been selected and design development is at an advanced stage.
Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
It is expected that the overall situation will improve, and progress is being
clearly monitored by supervision missions.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 kV transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term
lending through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.
Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small
farmers, cooperatives and farmers' association. Over one half of the Bank
loan has been disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by
August 31, 1979, as scheduled.
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
has started operation in January 1979.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure.
Land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in a 1 to
2 year delay in completing the project.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1428  Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977j
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. The loan became effective on December 21, 1977 and
commitments as of April 30, 1979 amounted to US$29 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and a priority first stage project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the devel-
opment of this sector. The loan became effective on August 26, 1978, and
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of M[arch 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an
experimental Sites and Services Housing Schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) techniLcal assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. The loan became effective on November 21, 1978,
construction is proceeding satisfactorily, although there has been some delay
in the non-physical aspects of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a decline in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure. Implementation has been
running about 6 months behind schedule. However, since operating funds have
become available, the Project Authority has laid the ground work for future
implementation and the situation is expected to improve.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Effectiveness Limit: October 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping
of 11 technical lycees, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project; US$25.0
million of April 25, 1979; Effectiveness Limit: October 1,
1979; Closing Date: December 31,1983.
The project consists of a two-year slice of a Government program
to assist small and labor intensive industries through policies, technical,
managerial and financial assistance.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22, 1979;
Effectiveness Limit: August 28, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This project which is the first stage of a 15-year village elec-
trification program would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings in 220
villages located in 17 provinces.
Ln. No. 1704 Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of May 23,
1979; Effectiveness Limit: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's
farm families. The project will cover most of CNCA's medium- and long-term
lending program and farm investment program through August 1982.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2_ 1979;
Effectiveness Limit:  October 3, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir and (iii) the establishment
of a revolvery fund to facilitate house connections for low incomle families,
and (iv) studies.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare
the Project:                                  12 months (February 1978 -
January 1979)
(b) Agencies responsible for the Project
preparation:                                  The Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (MARA) and the
Office de Commercialisation
et d'Exportation (OCE)
(c)  Project identified:                           February 1978
(d)  Date of Appraisal Mission:                    January 1979
(e)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:           July 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                October 1, 1979
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) Transportation facilities and operating funds for the technical extension
agents to be provided by OCE and SASMA (para. 51).
(b) Establishment of a National Coordinating Committee and five Regional
Technical Committees (para. 54).
(c) Organization and staffing, and employment of consultants for research
and demonstration training program (para. 57).
(d)  Treasury advance and CNCA financing conditions for greenhouses (para. 59).
(e) Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Government and CNCA and OCE by
December 31, 1979 (para. 60).
(f) OCE to reorganize marketing organization for off-season vegetables and
appoint network of importer-distributors in France (para. 67).



IBRD 14279
100                                                             ;0                             KENITR      i2, APRIL 1979
Sale
KINGDOMOF MOROCCO                                                                        RABAT
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION AND
AAARKETING PROJECT                                                   MOHAMMEDIA   Bouznika
.          :           -                    ~~~~~~~~CASABi-ANCA
0  .            ~~~Dar i3      0    0 -2
0 : Ff JADU). =  /d
:   -           %               SJ             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~idi  Benl 4l 
af         o(Kh~emas ra                            Rbi'a
SAF                                                 J                                                    Zemarnra \ ( <320
As,,C                          J                                    I
t~~~~~~~~~~~o Tensf <                                       } Eti
ESSAOUt RA
-300
300
PROJECT AREAS
DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
U X    * QUALITY CONTROL CENTERS
ROADS
/  [   - :    RIVERS                  Th,s map has been prepared by the
World Bank's staff euchas,ely for
0 Jp tthe convenience of the readers of
the report to weh,c-l'tisatached.
The denominations-sed and the
boundarIes sh-ow on this map
do not Imp/f, on the part of the
/  >  l     20    40    60  80    100            World Buns odn -,fflates unv
~~~O             ju~~~~idgment on the legal states of
KILOMETERS                             any territory or any endorsement
To Tarfaya                                                                                                      or acceptance of such boundaries.



