~PICIAL . LOAN WNMER 1757 NOR
Loan Agreement
(Vegetable Production and Marketing Project)
between
KINGD( OF kOROCCO                                                      E
and
INTERNATIONAL BAK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
MD DEVELOPHENT
Dated                                1979
9i


﻿611
LOAN NUMBER 1757 NOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      N 6\A4                          9, 1979,
between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (hereinafter called the Borrower or
4orocco) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) parts of the Project will be carried out by Office de
Commercialisation et d'Exportation (hereinafter called OCE) and
Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole (hereinafter called CNCA)
with the Borrower's assistance end, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available  to OCE and CNCA portions of the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and. in project
agreements of eveii date herewith between the  Bank and OCE and
between the Bank ard CNCA;
NOW THEREFORE the arties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions - and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "OCE Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and OCE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended


﻿-2-
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to such Agreement.
(b) "CNCA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CNCA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to such Agreement.
(c) "CNCA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "OCE Subsidiary
Loan Agreement" mean the agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and CNCA and the Borrower and OCE pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such terms include all schedules to such Agreements.
(d)  "MARA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
agriculture et rfforme agraire.
(e) "MEPN" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
fguipement.
(f) "SASMA" means Sociftg Agricole de Services au
Maroc, a company affiliated with OCE.
(g) "Project Area" means the horticultural zones for
vegetables of the Borrower's provinces of Kenitra, Ben Slimane, El
Jadida, Safi and Agadir and of the Borrower's prffectures of
Rabat-Sal4 and Casablanca.
(h) "Dirham" or the sign "DH" means the currency of the
Borrower.
(i) "CRCA" means any Caisse Rfgionale de Crfdit Agricole
established pursuant to the Agricultural Credit Dahir and Dfcret
and which operates as a regional branch of CNCA.
(j) "CLCA" means any Caisse Locale de Cr6dit Agricole
established under the laws of the Borrower and which operates as a
local branch of CNCA.
(k) "Coop6rative de la Rfforme Agraire" means any
agrarian cooperative established pursuant to the Kingdom of
Morocco's Dcret royal portant loi No. 267-66 of 15 Rebia I
1386 (July 4, 1966) and Dahir No. 1-72-277 of 22 Kaada 1392
(December 29, 1972).


﻿-3
(1) "farmers' association" means any association, groupement
ou cooprative d'exploitants agricoles other than any Coopfra-
tive de la Rfforme Agraire.
(m) "Sub-borrower" means any individual farmer, Coopfra-
tive de la Rfforme Agraire, farmers' association or other
person, entity or group eligible to receive a Sub-loan under the
Project.
(n) "Sub-loan" means any short-, medium- or long-term loan
made or proposed to be made by CNCA to a Sub-borrower for invest-
ments and expenditures to be financed under the Project.
(o) "Centre de Mise en Valeur" means any Centre de Travaux
or Sous-Centre de Travaux established in the Project Area,
pursuant to the Kingdom of Morocco's Dahir No. 1-56-322, dated
January 31, 1957.
(p) "1965 Loan Agreement". and "1965 Guarantee Agreement"
mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement between the Bank and CNCA
and the Guarantee Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
both dated November 8, 1965.
(q) "1972 Loan Agreement", "1972 Guarantee Agreement"', "1972
Credit Agreement" and "1972 Project Agreement" mean, respectively,
the Loan Agreement between the Bank and CNCA, the Guarantee
Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, the Development
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association and the
Project Agreement between the Association and CNCA, all dated
October 10, 1972.
(r) "1977 Loan Agreement" and "1977 Guarantee Agreement"
mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement between CNCA and the Bank
and the Guarantee Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
both dated February 7, 1977.
(s) "1978 Loan Agreement" and "1978 Project Agreement" mean,
respectively, the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
and the Project Agreement between CNCA and the Bank, both dated
September 6, 1978.
(t) "1979 Loan Agreement" and "1979 Guarantee Agreement"
mean, respectively, the Loan Agreement between CNCA and the Bank
and the Guarantee Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
both dated May 23, 1979.


﻿-4-
(u) "National Coordination Committee for Off-season Vege-
tables" and "Regional Technical Committee for Off-season Vege-
tables" mean the committees to be established pursuant to Section
3.02 hereof.
(v) "Convention particuli4re" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CNCA pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(w) "Avance du Trfsor" means the funds made available to
CNCA by the Borrower's Trfsor, within the framework of the
Convention particuliare, for the purpose of enabling CNCA to make
complementary loans available to the Sub-borrowers under Part A
(1) of the Project, each such complementary loan being known as a
"Pr8t complImentaire du Trfsor".
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to herein an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million
dollars ($58,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
amounts disbursed under the Sub-loans and for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. It is furthermore
specified that the first and the second Sub-loan applications
for regrouped packing stations included in Part D (3) of the
Project, together with the technical feasibility study pertaining
thereto, shall be submitted by CNCA to the Bank for prior approval -
before any withdrawal of proceeds of the Loan on account of either
such Sub-loan shall be authorized.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for Parts C
(1), C (3), C (5), D (4), E and F (2) of the Project and tc be


﻿-5-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set-
forth in'Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. CNCA is designated as representat,e of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect to
withdrawals of proceeds of the Loan under Categories (6) and (7)
of Schedule 1 hereto for expenditures required for Parts A, B and
D (3) of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts C (1),
C (3), C (5), D (4) and E of the Project and the elements of Part
F of the Project for which the Borrower shall be cesponsible with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, engineering, agricultural and construction practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-6-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause OCE and CNCA to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the OCE Project Agreement and the CNCA Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable OCE and
CNCA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) For the purpose of enabling CNCA to carry out Parts A, B
and D (3) and OCE to carry out Parts C (2), C (4), D (1) and D (2)
of the Project and the elements of Part F (1) of the Project for
which OCE shall be responsible, the Borrower shall relend to
CNCA and OCE the equivalent in Dirhams of portions of the proceeds
of the Loan under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
not later than December 31, 1979 (or such other date as the Bank
may agree) between the Borrower and CNCA and the Borrower and OCE,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank and which shall include inter alia those set forth in Sched-
ule 5 hereto, as such Schedule may be modified from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. In addition, for
the purpose of enabling CNCA to make complementary loans to the
Sub-borrowers under Part A (1) of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through its Trfsor, make available to CNCA funds under a Conven-
tion particuli&re to be entered into not later than January 31,
1980 (or such other date as the Bank may agree), between the
Borrower's Tresor and CNCA under terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
CNCA and OCE Subsidiary Loan Agreements land the Convention 2arti-
culiire in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the CNCA or OCE Subsid-
iary Loan Agreements or the Convention particuli5re or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
L979 (or such other date as the Bank may agree) establish and,
thereafter, maintain a National Coordination Committee for Off-
season Vegetables and, in each region of the Project Area, a
Regional Technical Committee for Off-season Vegetables on terms


﻿*1  ---7'-
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such terms and conditions
to provide inter alia (i) that the composition of said committees
shall include representatives of MARA, OCE, SASMA and CNCA, (ii)
that the National Coordination Committee for Off-season Vegetables
shall be entrusted with the overall coordination of the Project
and each Regional Technical Committee for Off-season Vegetables
with the coordination of the 11rject activities at the level of
the region concerned, and (iii) that the National Coordination
Committee for Off-season Vegetables shall meet at least every six
months.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1979 (or such other date as the Bank may agree), estab-
lish, through MARA and in cooperation with OCE, the research,
training and demonstration program for the 1979/80 season for
off-season vegetables (including the ways and means to carry out
such program). Thereafter, the National Coordination Committee for
Off-season Vegetables shall be entrusted with the establishment
of the annual research, training and demonstration programs for
off-season vegetables. It is furthermore specified that all such
programs shall be established on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan Agreement against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts C (1), C (3), C (5), D (4), E and F (2) of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reaoonably request.
(b) The Borrower:
(i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of Parts C (1),
414


﻿-8-
C (3), C (5), D (4) and E of the Project and the
elements of Part F of the Project for which the
Borrower shall be responsible, (including their
cost and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the
Proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
all relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall, in coordination with OCE and CNCA, furnish
to the Bank, at regular intervals, all such infor-
mation (including the annual report and the minutes
of the meetings of the National Coordinating
Committee for Off-season Vegetables) as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than June 30, 1984 or such later date as may be
agreed for the purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower, through the National Coordination Committee for Off-
season Vegetables, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, OCE, CNCA and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the OCE
and CNCA Project Agreements, the OCE and CNCA Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and the Convention particuliAre and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project and shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purpose related to the Project.
.............


﻿-9-
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the elements of Part F (1) of the Project for which the
Borrower shall be responsible, the Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1980 (or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower
may agree), employ c,onsultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, Ur with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; p.rovided,
however, that, if for any const tutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,


﻿-10-
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by Banque du Maroc or by any other institution per-
forming the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts C (1), C (3), C (5), D
(4) and E of the Project and the elements of Part F of the Project
for which they shall be responsible or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all facilities,
equipment, roads and works included in the Project to be, at all
times, staffed, operated and maintained in accordance with appro-
priate agricultural, technical, training, road, water resource and
environmental practices, shall cause all necessary repairs thereof
to be made, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required therefor.
ARTICLE V
Resedies(f the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) OCE or CNCA shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of OCE or CNCA under the OCE or CNCA
Project Agreements or the Convention particuliAre, as the case
may be.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that OCE or CNCA will be able to perform
their respective obligations under the OCE or CNCA Project Agree-
ments or the Convention particuliare, as the case may be.
(c) The Borrower's Dahir No. 1-60-106 or the Borrower's
Dfcret No. 2-61-607, both of 25 Joumada II 1381 (December 4,
1961), or the Borrower's Dahir No. 1192 of 20 Joumada I 1354
(August 21, 1935), or the Borrower's Dahir of July 9, 1965 (as
amended and completed by the Borrower's Dahir No. 1-75-288 of


﻿- 11 -
December 17, 1976) have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of OCE or CNCA to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the OCE or CNCA Project or
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the Convention particuliare, as
the case may be.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OCE or CNCA or for the suspension of their respective
operatigns.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower, CNCA and OCE.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 hereof shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is" specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Setion 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the CNCA and OCE Project
Agreements have been duly authorizkid or ratified by CNCA and OCE,
respectively, and are legally binding upon CNCA and OCE, respec-
tively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.02. The date                           , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 1 .04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the


﻿* - 12-
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re des Finances
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE FINANCES                 31936
. Rabat, Morocco
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 R Streeti -N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/y /Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Finadced
(1) Civil works and               4,000,000        45%
equipment for
research and
support services
provided by MARA
and for feeder roads
(2) Civil works and               2,8009000        45%
equipment for the
quality control
stations and
packing stations
of OCE, goods required
for Part C(4) of the
Project and technical
assistance for the
elements of Part F (1)
of the Project for
which OCE shall be
responsible
(3) Civil works for the             4509000        45%
port storage facility
at Agadir
(4) Training and Technical          350,000        45%
Assistance for the ele-
ments of Part F (1) of
the Project for which
the Borrower shall be
responsible


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollai Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Works for Part F (2)            400,000         50%
of the Project
(6) CNCA medium- and long-       37,400,000         75% of dis-
term Sub-loans for on-                         bursements
farm investments and                           actually made
packing stations                               under the Sub-
loans
(7) CNCA short-term Sub-         12,600,000         50% of annual
loans for incremental                          increments in
production costs                               disbursements
actually made
under the Sub-
loans
TOTAL        58,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or ingreases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such, item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
44'


﻿- 15 -
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance -the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent wAth
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any " other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project aims at doubling the Brrower's exports of
off-season vegetables by inter alia: (i) improving and expanding
modern production techniques (including greenhouse technology and
high-yielding hybrids) in Morocco; (ii) strengthening subsectoral
production planning and monitoring in Morocco; and (iii) adapting
the Moroccan marketing structure for off-season vegetables.
The Project consists of the followiig Parts:
Part A:   On-Farm Investments
(1) Provision of medium- and long-term credit to Sub-
borrowers for the acquisition and equipping of produc-
tion greenhouses containing about 1,000 hectares (in the
aggregate), and of seedling greenhouses containing about
7 hectares (in the aggregate).
(2) Provision of medium- and long-term credit to Sub-
borrowers for the acquisition of agricultural equipment
for use on about 8,000 hectares, for the financing of
soil disinfection programs and for the improvement of
irrigation systems on about 4,000 hectares.
Part B:   Incremental Production Costs
Provision of short-term agricultural credit to Sub-borrowers
to cover the incremental production costs of off-season vege-
tables.
Part C:   Infrastructure and Agricultural Services
(1) Strengthening of seven existing Centres de Mise en
Valeur, construction and equipping of five new Centres
de Mise en Valeur and recruitment of all personnel
required therefor.
(2) Strengthening of the technical extension services for
off-season vegetable production, through the assignment
of 55 additional technicians to the technical extension
personnel of OCE/SASMA in order to bring the staffing
level of such services in the Project Area to a total of
about 95 technicians (including 10 supervisors).


﻿71-
(3) Construction works and equipping required for the
research, demonstration and training to be carried out
in the existing research stations and the demonstration
and training centers to be established in Dar Bouazza,
Oualidia and Melk Zhar, and provision of all personnel
required therefor.
(4) Acquisition and equipment for seedling greenhouses
containing about 3 hectares and provision of all
perconnel required for the operation thereof.
(5) Regrouping of service cooperatives into ten inter-
cooperative units and construction of inter alia
office space, storage space for agricultural equipment,
and milk collecting centers.
Part D:   Infrastructure for Packing, Quality Control
and Storage
(1) Construction and equipping of two packing stations of
about 5,000 metric ton capacity each.
(2) Construction and equipping of twelve quality control
stations, and provision of all personnel required
therefor.
(3) Construction and equipping of ten packing stations and
modernization of about thirty packing stations, each
such station of about 2,500 metric ton capacity.
(4) Construction of storage facility of about 6,000 m2 for
fruits and vegetables in the port of Agadir.
Part E:   Feeder Roads
Rehabilitation of about 125 km of feeder roads, construction
of about 125 km of feeder roads, and provision of maintenance
equipment.
Part F:   Training, Technical Assistance and Drillings
(1) Applied research on production of seedlings under
greenhouse and training of extension agents and farmers
in new cropping techniques at the research stations, the
demonstration and training centers and the seedling


﻿-18 -
greenhouses referred to in Part C above, together with
research on specific agricultural, marketing, monitoring
and evaluation issues, through the provision of about
86 man-months of consultant and/or specialist services.
(2) Carrying out of a program of drillings '(and related
operations) to assess the hydraulic potential in the
Project Area.
*              *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
*  q m  no        e -a                                w s          lilig gl


﻿7'
19
SCUEDULE 3
A»ortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1984
through  Mrch 15, 1994                     2,635,000
On September 15, 1994                             2,665,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Laan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              6.85%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.90%
4


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
for Parts C (1), C (3), C (5), D (4), E and F (2) of the Project
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures, for the
procurement of equipment and civil works, to enable manufacturers
or contractors, as the case may be, to bid for individual con-
tracts or for a group of similar contracts, at their option.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on
c.i.f.. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on an ex-factory basis,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurament of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the elgibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
or goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
41aluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿-23-
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Each individual contract for civil works at the storage
facility at Agadir estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent
(including taxes), and each individual contract for equipment at
the said storage facility estimated to cost less than $1501000
equivalent (including taxes), may be awarded through local cmnpe-
titive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of all contracts to be so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000 (including
taxes).
2.   Contracts for civil works, vehicles and equipment for agri-
cultural support services, contracts for construction and rehabi-
litation of feeder roads and contracts for works under Part F (2)
of the Project may be awarded through local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works at the storage
facility at Agadir estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
more and for all contracts for equipment at the said storage
facility estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or. procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿-24-
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent Vith the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost o' the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that: the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly in-frm the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCÖLDULE 5
Suary of Terms and Conditions
for the CNCA and OCE Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(A) The Borrower shall, out of the proteeds of the Loan, relend
to CNCA $50.0 million equivalent, at the same interest rate
as that of the Loan from the Bank to the Borrower for a
period of 14 years (including 2 years of grace).
(B) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend
to OCE, $2.8 million equivalent, at an interest rate of nine
per cent (9%) per annum, for a period of 14 years (including
2 years of grace).
21


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
-tional Bang for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of  kl., 197-5.
FOR SECRETARY
1
1R
1r


