DOCUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 1757 MOR
OCE Project Agreement
(VegetableProduction and Marketifng PtojeCt)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
OFFICE DE CONERCIALISATION ET D'EXPORTATION
Dated                              , 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1757 MOR
OCE PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and OFFICE DE COMMERCIALISATION ET D'EXPORTATION
(hereinafter called OCE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Kingdom of Morocco (hereinafter called the Borrower or
Morocco) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
eight million dollars ($58,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that OCE
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein-
after set forth;
(5) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and OCE, a portion of the proceeds of
the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made
available to OCE on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS OCE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. OCE shall carry out Parts C (2), C (4), D
(1) and D (2) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and the elements of Part F (1) of the Project for which
4-.


﻿-2-
OCE shall be responsible with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for Parts
D (1) and D (2) of the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
hereto.
(b) OCE shall, for and on behalf of the Sub-borrowers,
procure goods required for carrying out Part A (1) of the Project
and, for its own account, goods required for carrying out Part C
(4) of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Part C
(2) of the Schedule hereto.
Section 2.03. (a) OCE undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by OCE to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree,
OCE shall cause all goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) OCE shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Parts D (1) and D (2) of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) OCE: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts C (2), C (4)t D
(1) and D (2) of the Project and the elements of Part F (1) of the
Project for which OCE shall be responsible (including their cost
and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the parts of the Project for viUch OCE


﻿-3-
shall be responsible and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall, in coordination with the Borrower and CNCA, furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the parts of the Project for
which OCE shall be responsible, their cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than June 30, 1984 or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose among the Borrower, OCE and the Bank, OCE
shall, through the National Coordination Committee for Off-season
Vegetables, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of Parts C (2), C (4), D (1)
and D (2) of the Project and the elements of Part F (1) of the
Project for which OCE shall be responsible, their cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance by
OCE and the Bank of their respective obligations under the OCE
Project Agreement and the OCE Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) OCE shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of OCE related to the purposes of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.-J. OCE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the OCE Gubsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, OCE shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the OCE Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision there-
of.
Section 2.06. (a) OCE shall, it the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and the OCE Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) OCE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or


﻿F-
the performance by OCE of its obligations under this Agreement
and the OCE Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. OCE shall cooperate with the Borrower for the
establishment of the programs referred to in Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement, as provided in such Section.
Section 2.08. OCE shall provide and rhall ensure that SASMA
provide the technical extension agents included in Part C (2) of
the Project with adequate transportation facilities and funds for
all their operating expenses.
Section 2.09. OCE shall cooperate with the National Coordina-
tion Committee for Off-season Vegetables and the Provincial
Technical Committees for Off-season Vegetables and shall provide
said committees, in a timely fashion and at regular intervals,
with the necessary information and resources enabling said com-
mittees to perform their functions as defined pursuant to Section
3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. In order to assist OCE in carrying out the
elements of Part F (1) of the Project for which OCE shall be
responsible, OCE shall, as and when required, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and OCE.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OCE
Section 3.01. OCE shall continue at all times to manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
standards and practices and under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. OCE shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, power, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful to enable it to fulfill its obliga-
tions hereunder.
Section 3.03. OCE shall, after exchanges of views with the
Bank, take all appropriate steps to strengthen and maintain an
adequate marketing structure for off-season vegetables; to that


﻿end, OCE shall, inter alia, establish in France, not later than
October 31, 1979, a panel of importer-distributors for off-season
vegetables.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. OCE shall continue to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. OCE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited by the Borrower"s
ministry responsible for finance in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by such ministry;
(ii) furnish to the Bank, promptly after approval by its Conseil
d'administration, (A) certified copies of those financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the minutes of its
Conseil d'administration approving such statements; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning those
accounts and financial statements as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of D.CE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify OCE thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-6-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such. party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washing on, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OCE:
Office de Commercialisation
et d'Exportation
45 avenue de l'Arme Royale
Casablanca
Morocco
Cable address:                      Telex:
OCEXPORT                            OCEXPORT
Casablanca                          21610.M.
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of OCE may be taken or executed by its
Di-ecteur Gfn&ral or such other person or persons as OCE shall
designate ir writing, and OCE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/
Regional Vice President
Europe, Hiddle East and North Africa
OFFICE DE COMMERCIALISATION ET D'EXPORTATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
for Parts D (1) and D (2) shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, OCE shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. OCE shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   OCE shall take all appropriate measures, for the procurement
of equipment and civil works, to enable manufacturers or contrac-
tors, as the case may be, to bid for individual contracts or for a
group of similar contracts, at their option.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on a
c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on an ex-factory basis,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to OCE of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of OCE and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Morocco equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared. with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the' importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid,price of such goods


﻿if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Each individual contract for civil works estimated to
cost less than $300,000 equivalent (including taxes), and each
individual contract for equipment, estimated to cost less than
$150,000 equivalent (including taxes) may be awarded through local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of all contracts for equipment
to be so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000
(including taxes).
2.   To ensure standardization of equipment, competitive prices
and timely supplies, contracts for goods required for carrying
out Parts A (1) and C (4) of the Project shall be procured through
internt-ional competition in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods required for carrying
out Parts A (1) and C (4) of the Project and for civil works
required for carrying out Parts D (1) and D (2) of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, and with
respect to all contracts for equipment required for carrying
out Parts D (1) and D (2) of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, respectively:
(a) Before bids are invited, OCE shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 11 -
(b) OCE shall, after bids have been received and evaluated
and before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the con-
tract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform OCE and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, OCE shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent wilh the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform OCE and state  e reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except In cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, OCE shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform OCE and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of         197.
FOR SECRETARY


