Doc.mam    MICR()GRAPHICS
The Work
Report No: P-   6203 EGT
FOR OMCLAL    Type: MOP
ZAl  6-e; 7  5-  
Rept No. P-6203-EGT
MEMORANDUM AND RECOIMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIMET
AND OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$54.0 MILLION
TO THE
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
£11) A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 48.7 MILLION
TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1994
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipants only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othwise be disclosed without Wold Banl authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of June 1993)
US$1.00 - 3.33 Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE 1:00 - US$ 0.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
E-yptian and/or Metric Unit                       E-aglish/US Unit
1 feddan (fed)                                    0.420 hectares, 1.037 acres
1 hectare (ha)                       -            2.470 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AERI        -     Agricultural Engineering Research Institute
ARC         e     Agricultural Research Center
APCP        -     Agricultural Production and Credit Project
BDAC        =     Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
REAA              Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
EIDU        =     Extension Information and Demonstration Unit
ERSAP       5     Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
FNRI        a     Food and Nutrition Research Institute
GARPAD      a     General  Authority  for  Rehabilitation  Projects  and
Agricultrral Development
GOB         =     Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
HC          -     Holding Company
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDF         -     Institutional Development Fund
IPM               Integrated Pest Management
MALR              Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MPWWR             Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
KARP        -     National Agricultural Research Project
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
PB          -     Participating Bank
PBDAC       =     Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
Ps                Public Enterprise
PMD         -     Project Management Department
PSA         -     Private Sector Assessment
PSD         -     Private Sector Development
RRES        -     Regional Research and Extension Station
SAL         =     Structural Adjustment Loan
SAMP        a     Structural Adjustment Monitoring Program
SDI         3     Subsidy Dependence Index
SFD         -     Social Fund for Development
SFPP        -     Small Farmer Production Project
SMS         -     Subject Matter Specialist
TTS         =     Technology Transfer Specialist
UNDP        =     United Nations Development Programme
USAID       =     United States Agency for International Development
VEW         =     Village Extension Worker
WRC         =     Water Research Center
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCL USE ONLY
ARAB REPULIC OF EGYPT
AGRICUTURAL MODERNIZATION PROIEC
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN/CREDITANDPROJECTSOJCMAUYY ...  .....................                    1
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY . . . . . . . . .   1
A.  Introduction  . . .     .  .  .  .  .     . .      .    .     * . * .   * *   1
B.  Recent Economic and Social Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
The First Phase of Adjustment and Structural Reforms  . . . .   2
Macroeconomic and Structural Policy Framework . . . . . . . .   2
Economic Performance  . . .  . . .  . . .   . . .   . . . . ...  3
Alleviating Poverty and Improving Social Conditions . . . . .   5
C.  The External Environments Vulnerability to Shocks . . . . . . . .   6
D. Egypt's Development Objectives: Medium Term Perspectives,
Development Agenda and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    7
Medium Term Prospects .      ..       ..................    7
Egypt's Development Agenda  . ................                   9
The Second Phase of Reforms . .s.       .  .    .    ........9....    9
Public Enterprise Reform and Private Sector Development,
Including Privatization ..... ..................   10
Human Resources Development, Poverty Alleviation and
Improvement of the Social Safety Net  . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Improving Natural Resource Management and the Environment . .  12
Benefits and Risks of the ERSAP . . . . . ... ..  .  ..  13
E.  Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy  . . . . . . .  .  .  . . . .  1.
Assistance for Economic Reform  . . . . . . . .                 14
Assistance for Public Enterprise Reform and Private
Sector Development, Including Privatization . . . . . . . .  15
Assistance for the Development of Human Resources, Poverty
PAleviation and Improvement of the Social Safety Net  . . .  17
Assistance for Improving Natural Resource Management and
the Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Aid Coordination and Cooperation with the IMF and UNDP  . . .  20
Lending Program . . . . . . . . . . . . # . . . . . .  . . .  20
Portfolio Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . .     . ..    21
F. Agenda for Board Consideration  .............. .                     22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
II.AGRICULTU       R    URA LFIA  .     CE.....................23
A.  Agriculture . . . . , . ,  . *  ..0   * * * * * * * * *               23
B.  Financial Intermediation and Rural Finance  . . . . . . . . . . .  24
C.  Past Activities and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . .   . .  . .. .  25
III.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .    .  25
A.  Linkage to the Country Assistance Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . .  25
B.  Project Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   * . . . . . . . .  .   25
Project Objectives  . .... ..... . . . .         ... ......   25
Project Description and Implementation Arrangements . . . . .  26
Agreements Reached  ......27
Project Benefits  . ...           ..        ....                  28
Project Risks . . . . . . . . .                                   28
Environmental Aspects                                             28
Recommendations                                                   28
List of Tables
Table l:    Key Economic Indicators, 1983-93  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Table 2s    Key Economic Indicators: Baseline Projections . . . . . . . .   8
List of Schedules
Schedule A: Estimated Cost and Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Schedule B: Procurement Methods and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Schedule C: Timetable for Key Project Processing Events . . . . . . . . .  32
Schedule Ds Status of Bank Group Operations in Egypt  . . . . . . . . . .  33
List of Annexes
Annex  I:   Details of the Second Phase of the Government's Economic
Reform and Structural Adjustment Program  . . . . . . . . .  36
Annex II:   Matrix of Policy Actions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
Al    Selected Indicators of Portfolio Performance and Management .   50
A2    Bank Fact Sheet . . . S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
A3    Priority Poverty Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  52
A4    Key Economic Indi cators.................                         54
AS    Key Exposure Ind dcatortos                                        56
Mads;   IBRD Nos. 25280 and 25281
Responsibitity for preparation: Nessrs./Mm.s. K.S. Venkatraman, Task Manager (NN2AG); Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Chief
(MN2AG); Ram K. Chopra, Director CMN2); Voyadzis, CAS (MN2CO); Caio Koch-Weser, Vice President (CNA); wnd Peer
Reviewers - Satop (AF4CO); Yaron CAGRAP); and Nyberg (EA2AG)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUIBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower             s      For  IBRD  Loan:  The  Principal  Bank  for  Development  and
Agricultural  Credit  (PBDAC).    For  IDA Credit:  The Arab
Republic of Egypt.
Guarantor            :      The Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing Agenc  :      Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
Beneficiaries               Farmers, agro-based enterprises, agro-processors,  machinery
dealers; PBDAC, other participating banks, and Ministry of
Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR).
Loan/Credit Amount  :       IBRD Loan : USS54.0 million equivalent
IDA Credit: SDR 48.7 million (US$67.0 million equivalent).
Terms                       IBRD Loan: 20 years including 5 years of grace,  standard
variable interest rate; IDA Credit: standard, with 35 years
including 10 years of grace.
On-lendinft Terms    :      (i) The amount of US$100.0 million (US$54.0 million of IBRD
loan and US$46.0 million equivalent out of the IDA credit) for
on-lending would be made available to PBDAC as the $apex"
institution on standard IBRD terms; a guarantee fee of 0.125
per cent would be payable to the Government of the Arab
Republic of Egypt (GOE); while PBDAC would bear the foreign
exchange risk, it would cover this risk under an existing
facility with the Ministry of Finance against payment of a
three per cent fee which will be reviewed at mid-term and
adjusted periodically thereafter to reflect market conditions.
(ii) The amount of US$21.0 million earmarked for institutional
development would be provided on IDA terms to PBDAC and on
grant terms to MALR. (iii) PBDAC would on-lend funds to
participating banks at cost (i.e., interest, plus foreign
exchange risk premium, plus 0.5 per cent to cover costs of
apex banking functions). (iv) Sub-loans to borrowers would be
at prevailing market rates of interest.
Financing Plan:                        Local          Foreign          Total
------------(US$ Million)-----------
IBRD Loan                       -             54.0             54.0
IDA Credit                     7.4            59.6             67.0
Government/PBDAC              89.0              -              89.0
Investors                     58.8                             58.8
TOTAL                        155.2           113.6            268.
Economic Rate of Return   : Estimated at 38 per cent
Staff Anpraisal ReRort    : No. 12513-EGT
Poverty Category            : NA
Maps: IBRD Nos. 25280 and 25281



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AND
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTUAL CREDff
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPr
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FYOR THE AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.          I  submit  for  your  approval  the  following  memorandum  and
recommendation on a proposed loan of US$54.0 million to the Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), with a guarantee of the Arab
Republic of Egypt, and a proposed development credit of SDR 48.7 million (US$67.0
million equivalent) to the Arab Republic of Egypt, to help finance the
Agricultural Modernization Project. The proposed loan would be on standard IBRD
terms of variable interest rate with 20 years' maturity, including a grace period
of five years, and the proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 35 years, including a grace period of 10 years.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE SATEGY
A. Introduction
2.          In October 1993, President Mubarak was re-dlected to a third six-year
term. The elections were followed by a long-awaited Cabinet change. The
composition of the Cabinet, however, remained almost unchanged. The new
Government has continued to play a critical role in the Middle East peace process
and to implement the economic adjustment program that started some three years
ago. Stabilization has been successful. Growth, however, remains very weak. The
task of bringing about sustainable development in Egypt remains formidable. The
population of 55 million is increasing by more than a million a year. Fast
growth is required in both employment and labor productivity. However, in recent
years CDP per capita has been falling and unemployment has been increasing.
Without robust growth in the service and industrial sectors based on private
investment, Egypt will not be able to grow fast enough to create the necessary
jobs to keep unemployment from rising further.
3.          The Bank,  the Fund and the donors have continually urged the
Government to seize upon the favorable financial situation the country is
currently facing and forge ahead with the key areas of reform, particularly trade
and privatization. Otherwise, the Government may jeopardize the credibility of
its program, thereby further delaying the long-awaited supply-side response from
the private sector. In the meantime, violence continues with attacks on
government officials and tourists by Islamic extremists and reprisals by
Government taking place almost daily, making the Government reluctant to move too
fast on the painful aspects of economic reform. The Government has recently
announced that it will start a "national dialogue" with the opposition, and has
intensified slum-upgrading in the poorest areas, such as Assiyut and Imbaba.
4.          At the time of writing, a mission to conduct the first review of the
Structural Adjustment Monitoring Program (SAMP) is in the field. It is expected
to return by mid-March 1994. This CAS is used as a vehicle to inform the Board
about the second phase of the Government's Economic Reform and Structural
Adjustment Program (ERSAP).



- 2 -
B. Recent Economic and Socal Performance
5.          In the mid-1980s,  the economy was  severely  affected by the
precipitous fall in oil prices, which caused a decline in the rate of growth of
real output and a rise in both the inflation and unemployment rates.  The second
half of the 19805 brought an unsustainable, hcivy external debt burden, rising
fiscal and balance of payments deficits and a gradual erosion of the significant
gains in the standard of living that had been made over the previous decade.
Since 1991 the Egyptian Government has responded with a comprehensive ERSAP.
The First Phase of Adiustment and Structural Reforms
6.          This phase of the program initiated the beginning of a shift from a
centrally planned economy with a relatively small private sector to a
decentralized, market-based and outward-oriented economy, in which the private
sector would play the leading role. This phase involved the removal of many of
the existing distortions in the price system, as well as some of the key
impediments to trade and investment.   It was supported by an IMF Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA), a World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and debt/debt
service relief (DDSR), including an agreement with Paris Club creditors.1  The
overall progress made thus far has been significant.
Macroeconomic and Structural Policy Framework
7.          A major, front-loaded fiscal adjustment has been at the center of
Egypt's economic reform program. The stabilization effort was anchored to a
substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit. As a proportion of GDP, the overall
fiscal deficit was reduced from 20 to 4.7 percent in the period 1991-93 (Table
1). At the same time the primary balance (excluding interest payments) moved
from a 13 percent deficit to a 6 percent surplus.
8.          The fiscal adjustment was accompanied by flnancial liberalization.
At the start of the reform program, the Governments i) removed the nominal
ceilings on interest rates; ii) began phasing out the system of administrative
credit allocation; iii) began using Treasury Bills (TB) auctions to manage
liquidity (indirectly providing a reference interest rate to the financial
markets); and iv) dismantled foreign exchange controls and unified the foreign
exchange system, thereby allowing unrestricted international capital mobility.
This initially resulted in a 35 percent devaluation of the Egyptian pound against
tbj US dollar. The exchange rate, however, quickly stabilized. The process of
financial liberalization was supported by a series of other reforms in order to
strengthen the solvency and efficiency of the banking and securities markets,
including the recapitalization of public banks.
1/ The DDSR granted by Parts Club creditors in May 1991 fs linked to the Goverrment's performance under INF
arrangements. Relief is provided in three phases. The first phase, which provided a 15 percent reduction in
the present value of debt service falling due, was iplemented in July 1991. The second phase, aLso 15 percent
of the present value of debt service, to have been implemented by December 31, 1992 took place in October 1993,
after approval of the extended arrangement by the Fund's Board in Septufber 1993. The third phase, which would
amount to a further reduction of 20 percent of the present value of debt service falling due, is scheduled by
the Paris Club to take place by July 1, 1994 and is conditional on performance under the IMF extended
arrangement.



- 3 -
9.          The Government has begun to gradually open up foreign trade.  Trade
liberalization included three major components: i) substantial reduction of
nontariff barriers to imports, including most significantly the removal of many
import bans and prior approvals; ii) reduction in tariff dispersions (with few
exemptions, all tariff rates were brought from the 0-to-160 percent range into
the 5-to-80 percent bracket, while tariff preferences were reduced); and iii)
elimination of most export quotas and the upgrading of the drawback and temporary
admissions system for export production).
10.         Recognizing the need to expand the economic boundaries of Egypt's
private sector, the Government initiated a gradual restructuring of the public
enterprise  (PE) sector.   More than 70 percent of manufactures production
originates from the PEs, typically exercising state monopoly positions.
Efficiency of capital and labor must be raised considerably to make this sector
internationally competitive. The PR sector, which employs some 8 percent of the
labor force and turns out an estimated 10 percent of the country's GDP, was
reorganized into 17 diversified, financially autonomous holding companies (HCe).
These HCs were then cut off from the fiscal budget, both in terms of investment
financing and public credit guarantees. The objective is to subject the PEs to
free market conditions, and privatize a large number of them. Furthermore, the
authorities have begun dismantling regulatory obstacles to business entry and
operation.   However, the restructuring, liquidation and sale of PEs to the
private sector has had a slow start.
Economic Performance
11.         As in most other countries that undergo structural adjustment, real
CDP growth has slowed down from an average of 2.5 - 3 percent p.a. in FY89-FY91
before ERSAP to 0.4 percent p.a. in FY92-FY93 (Table 1), with only agriculture
and construction show signs of recovery. Both demand and supply factors have
contributed to this output performance. On the demand side these includes i) the
fiscal adjustment; ii) the sharp increase in real interest rates from highly
negative rates to positive rates in the range of 5 to 8 percent p.a.; iii) the
sharp contraction in the demand for Egypt's exports by the countries of the
former Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and Iraq. Several factors have hampered
output supply: i) the general uncertainty that accompanies structural reform
programs; ii) the internal financial and structural adjustment of PBE and
economic authorities (in particular as a result of the discontinuation of
automatic credit guarantees by the central government), as well as the slower
than anticipated pace in the implementation of the PE reforms and privatization;
and iii) reduction in input subsidies (e.g., energy, transport, fertilizer).
12.         The substantial reduction in the fiscal deficit, the slower rate of
monetary expansion, and the stable nominal exchange rate (against the US dollar)
have all contributed to a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The rate of
increase in the consumer price index (CPI) fell from about 21 percent in the 12
months prior to July 1991 to about 10 percent through October 1993. Moreover,
this lower inflation rate was achieved in spite of substantial price
liberalization.



- 4 -
Table 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1983-93
(percent)
1983  1985  1987  1989  1990  1991   1992   1993a/
GDP Growth Rate               7.7   6.6   2.5   3.0   2.5   2.3    0.3    0.5
Exports Volume Growth Rate b/  12.5   2.2  -11.0  -2.0   3.4  13.3    0.4   -1.1
Manufacturing Exports c/    3.2  -3.4   9.6  10.8   4.9  27.9   -2.0  -21.2
Imports Volume Growth Rate d/  6.9   4.8  -20.2   0.3   8.5   0.3   -4.9   4.1
Private Consumption Growth Rate
(per capita)                1.5   3.3  -2.1   0.5   0.0  -3.6   -1.7    1.4
Inflation Rate e/             8.0   9.0  15.1  16.7  17.3  22.3   19.4   10.7
Total DOD/GOP                103.3  103.4  129.1  149.8  144.3  119.1   107.3   97.4
Total Debt Services/XGS f/   17.3  23.0  28.2  24.3  46.0  39.5   17.9   16.5
Total DOD/XGS                281.6  328.3  482.8  428.8  398.5  269.5   234.8  243.3
Overall Fiscal Deficit/GDP g/  -19.6  -21.6  -19.3  -18.1  -16.5  -20.0   -5.0   -4.7
Current Account/GOP h/       -5.4  -9.3  -5.2  -9.3  -10.5  -7.4    3.5   -1.0
Gross Fixed Capital Formation/GOP   28.7  26.7  18.0  23.3  21.9  20.4   18.2   17.0
_   _~_        _    _       -_--.--         *=                        
Note: Egyptian fiscal year (July 1-June 30).
8/ Preliminary estimates by Bank staff    f/ 1983-91 accrual basis; 1992/93,
b/ Exports of goods and non-factor services.  cash basis
c/ Excludes textiles.                     a/ Excludes public enterprises
d/ Imports of goods and non-factor servicas.  h/ Excludes official transfers.
e/ GDP deflator
13.         Following the introduction of the ERSAP, Egypt managed to achieve a
surplus on the current account of the balance of payments, excluding official
transfers, in FY92 for the first time in more than two decades.  The key factors
behind this improvement are: demand management through fiscal adjustment and
monetary discipline; reduced foreign interest payments (mainly due to the DDSR
granted by bilateral and the Paris Club creditors) which has fallen from around
US$3 billion a year to US$1.5 billion a year; and a strong rise in tourism
revenue and workers' remittances, which increased from an average of about US$900
million and US$3.5 billion a year to about US$1.5 billion and US$5 billion a
year, respectively. As a result of the DDSR granted to Egypt following the Gulf
war, total external debt declined from US$51 billion in 1990 to about US$38.5
billion in mid-1993. The scheduled debt service-to-exports ratio also fell from
46 percent to about 16.5 percent, improving the country's creditworthiness
further.
14.         Despite the progress achieved in adjustment and in redressing
domestic and external macroeconomic imbalance, unemployment remains a major
problem. Egypt has a high level of open unemployment (2.2 million, or 14 percent
of the labor force). The pattern of unemployment is distinctive, with 75 percent
of the unemployed being new entrants to the labor force, of whom more than 90
percent hold intermediate (65 percent) or higher (25 percent) educational
degrees. In this category female unemployment predominates. The remaining 25
percent of the unemployed have already been in the labor force: they are less
educated, less skilled and predominantly male (90 percent).   With external
migration subsiding, labor force growth is expected to approximate the rate of
population growth, adding between 5 to 6 million new entrants in the 1990s.
Continued pressure will come from the ongoing reduction in Government recruitment
of new entrants (which fell from 110,000 in 1985 to 30,000 in 1991).  Labor



- S .
market imbalances will remain for at least the next several years until the
second phase of ERSAP is fully implemented and a supply response takes place.
15.         Key Macroeconomic Issues.  Achieving stability in Egypt has raised
a number of policy issues that, if not addressed, could have important
implications for the sustainability of macroeconomic policies. The Government
has been somewhat over-ambitious in terms of monetary objectives. The exchange
rate has been kept stable against the US dollar, but at the same time money
supply expansion has been targeted, and foreign reserves boosted. Capital inflows
and the rapid accumulation of foreign reserves by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE)
have exerted a strong upward pressure on domestic money creation. In order to
keep the latter in check, the authorities engaged in widespread sterilization of
capital inflows and absorbed liquidity through TS auctions in excess of the
Government's borrowing requirements. This process preserved a substantial spread
between domestic and foreign interest rates, which together with a stable
exchange rate against the US dollar has further induced capital inflows.
Accordingly, the stock of TB debt has grown, as a proportion of GDP, from 4
percent in June 1991 to about 25 percent in December 1993, all of it short-term.
This domestic debt accumulatlon presents a fiscal challenge: the servicing of
the TB debt, as a proportion to GDP, is estimated to have reached 2 percent in
FY93, and is expected to reach 3 percent in FY94. Outstanding General Government
domestic debt increased from LE69 billion in June 1991 to LE107 billion in June
1993 (or from about 70 percent of GDP to 82 percent). The previous foreign debt
service problem is being converted into a domestic debt service problem.
16.         Given the still high inflation rate, the stability of the exchange
rate against the US dollar has also led to a real effective appreciatlon of the
local currency by about 25 percent over the last two and a half years since the
initial 35 percent nominal depreciation of the L.E. This development is of
concern because of the loss of competitiveness in the tradable goods sector.
17.         The prlvate sector has not yet responded to the reforms; lessons of
experience from other reforming developing countries indicate that a relatively
long lag for the private sector to respond to reforms is not unusual.
Nevertheless, in addition to questions of macroeconomic policy sustainability
referred to above, there are several specific reasons why there has been a delay
In Egypt. Constraints on private sector production, investment and trade have
been widespread until recently. These are to be further reduced during the
second phase of the reforms (ERSAP-I1). Furthermore, the financial positions of
domestic private firms have weakened because of the economic slowdown and high
real interest rates; high after tax yields on liquid TBs have diverted capital
away from private investment; and, more importantly, private investors have
remained wary of the possibility of reversals in reform measures, particularly
during the initial stages of the reform program. Indeed, a deepening of the
reforms, as envisioned in the second phase of the 0overnment's program, will
substantially enhance the credibility of the program itself and strengthen the
chances for a stronger response by the private sector.
Alleviating Poverty and Improving Social Conditions
18.         Economic growth and the social welfare system in place for the last
40 years (until recently characterized by a large number of universal subsidy
programs) produced gains in basic social indicators and a reduction in the



- 6 -
incidence of poverty from about 40 percent of the population at the beginning of
the period to the present level of about 30 percent, who are living on monthly
per capita incomes of less than US$20. However, the number of poor has kept
increasing--from about 12.3 million in 1980 to about 17 million in 1990. The
decline in real incomes over the last four years is likely to have increased the
number of families living in or close to poverty. Apa.-;. from the poor, there is
an estimated additional 50 percent of the population (about 26 million people)
with an average annual per capita income at or below US$250. This group has
experienced a significant erosion in real incomes of about 10 percent p.a. since
1980.
19.         Women and children feature disproportionately among the poor.
Together with the elderly, the sick and the disabled, they constitute the great
proportion of the so-called "ultra poor" (living on less than US$120 per year per
capita). This group constitutes approximately 2.4 million people (4 percent of
the population) and depends on inadequate direct income transfers for a large
portion of its income. The existing social programs and transfer mechanisms do
not constitute an adequate safety net to protect the most vulnerable from the
effects of adjustment. Existing annual benefit levels for the poor unable to
work provide less than one month expenditures (levels of a3sistance range from
US$4 to US$70 per year per capita depending on the program).   In 1993, they
reached about S million people and cost about 0.2 percent of GDP which is low by
international standards.
20.         The social and economic costs of present trends of population growth
and school enrollments will strain severely the Government's capacity to provide
social services in the future.   Although the rate of population growth has
declined to about 2 percent a year, Egypt's population is still expected to grow
from about 54 million in 1992 to about 65 million by the year 2000. In the next
six years only, primary enrollments are projected to increase at an annual rate
of 2.3 percent (from 6.7 million in 1992 to 7.5 million in 1997).
C. The External Environment: Vulnerability to Shocks
21.         The  ongoing  reforms  and  the  accompanying  rapid  buildup  of
international reserves have, for the first time in the last 40 years, provided
Egypt with an ability to absorb sizable temporary external shocks.   This
notwithstanding, the economy remains vulnerable to shocks and continues to be
excessively dependent on external financial support. The main sources of current
account BOP earnings are workers' remittances, Suez Canal dues, tourism receipts
and oil exports.   These are sensitive to regional economic and political
developments, and some of them are positively correlated with each other (e.g.,
petroleum prices and level of workers, remittances from the region). Tourism
revenues and workers' remittances are particularly volatile and vulnerable to
shocks. Together they account for more than half of the total foreign exchange
earnings. A combination of adverse developments could lead to a significant
deterioration of Egypt's balance of payments. In addition, a significant portion
of the recent buildup of international reserves is due to a one-time inflow of
private capital, much of which could quickly be reversed.
22.         A number of issues concerning the impact of the external environment
on Egypt's trade sector should be considered. As a net importer of agricultural
products, Egypt will face an adverse terms of trade shock as a result of the



- 7 -
partial elimination of food export subsidies by countries in the Uruguay Round.
Although local producers of food will become more competitive, their gain could
be more than offset by the loss incurred by consumers from higher prices on
imported agricultural products. Currently, Egyptian textile and clothing exports
are subject to import limitations in major markets such as the European Union
(EU) and the US under the Multi-Fibre Arrangement (MFA).  Egypt would be a
beneficiary of the elimination of MFA i>otas, both directly as exports of
clothing become unconstrained and indirectly as the demand for Egyptian cotton
expands.   However, this is an area where insufficient domestic supply-side
policies could have a greater detrimental impact than the import restrictions
maintained in export markets.
23.         Insofar as Egypt does not enjoy the same degree of preferential
access to the EU as other Mediterranean, as well as East European coantries, it
will be more difficult for Egyptian firms to penetrate the EU markets.
Multilateral liberalization is therefore especially important for Egypt as it
will reduce the tariff preferences implied by the various trade agreements
between the EU and other countries.
D. Egypt's DevLdopment Objectives: Medium Tenn Persecties. Development
Agenda and Polcies
_edium Term Prosgects
24.         Egypt's medium term economic prospects are highly fragile, depending
upon external economic developments, domestic economic policy performance, and
external financial support.   Political imperatives, as articulated by the
Government, as well as economic objectives, suggest that inroads need to be made
in reducing the pressure of unemployment. Reducing unemployment and creating new
job opportunities require, first and foremost, the restoration of economic
growth. Since the public sector is no longer capable of sparking that growth,
largely for fiscal reasons, the private sector will need to bApand.   The
Government recognizes that this implies in turn substantial increases in private
sector investment and a corresponding improvement in investment efficiency.
25.         Based on the assumption that the Government will continue the
implementation of the second phase of its reform program, indicative economic
projections (Table 2) illustrate an optimistic though feasible and consistent
scenario.   These baseline projections are also predicated upon assumptions
concerning: (i) the international economic environment (i.e. petroleum and other
export prices, access to export markets, interest rates, etc.) and (ii)
international financial support (i.e., continuation of the Paris Club DDSR, donor
and creditor support, including that from the Bank/IDA). Growth in real output
is projected to increase to about 2.0 percent in FY94 and 3.3 percent in FY95,
while inflation would decline to 9.5 percent p.a. in FY94 and 6.1 percent in
FY95. (Table 2) Over the medium term, real output growth is projected to rise
to between 4.5 and 5 percent a year, with the ratio of gross domestic investment
to GDP ratio rising from about 18 percent in recent years to above 20 percent,
primarily due to increases in private investment. The overall BOP surplus,
estimated at about US$3.9 billion in FY93, is currently projected to fall to US$2
billion in FY94 and FY95, reflecting the recovery of imports and projected
reductions in short-term capital inflows. These figures are contingent on net
ODA flows of about USS 2 billion p.a.



Table 2: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS: BASELINE PROJECTIONS
(in percent)
1994     1995      1996    1997-2001
l___________                    a/
GDP Growth Rate                               2.0      3.3       4.3        5.3
Exports Volume Growth Rate b/                 0.7      2.0       2.4        4.8
Manufacturing Exports c/                   14.2       9.8      10.2      11.1
Imports Volume Growth Rate d/                3.8       5.1       4.3       4.5
Private Consumption Growth Rate (per capita)  0.8      1.6       1.5        2.6
Inflation Rate e/                            9.5       6.1       5.5       4.1
Total DOD/GDP                                93.5     93.1      88.1       73.9
Total Debt Services/XGS f/                   15.2     13.6      14.1       12.9
Total DOD/XGS                               239.7    226.7      215.6     181.0
Overall Fiscal Deficit/GDP g/                -2.6     -1.5      -0.7        0.0
Current Account/GDP                          -1.7     -1.2      -1.7       -2.9
Gross Fixed Capital Formation/GDP            17.2     18.5      19.9       22.9
Note: Egyptian fiscaL year (July 1- June 30).
a/ Five-year (1997 to 2001) average.
b/ Exports of goods and non-factor services. (XGS)
c/ Excludes textiles.
d/ Imports of goods and non-factor services.
e/ GOP deflator.
f/ Cash basis.
g/ Excludes pubLic enterprises.
26.          External Debt and Creditworthiness.  As a result of ERSAP and the
DDSR, Egypt's credit-worthiness has improved significantly. Egypt's external
debt to GDP ratio is projected to continue its downward trend, which began in
1991, and decline from 97.4 percent of GDP in FY93 to 66 percent by the end of
the decade as the level of debt rises only moderately from US$38.5 billion to
US$40 billion.  (Table 2)  The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
services is projected to decline from 17 percent in FY93 to 14 percent over the
medium term.
27.          The Bank's exposure in Egypt is not large.  The Bank and IDA share
of total long term external debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD) was 6.0 percent
in FY93; debt service payments to the Bank and IDA accounted for 12.4 percent of
Egypt's external long-term debt service payments.  However, because of the recent
debt forgiveness and the Paris Club DDSR, the Bank's share will rise in the next
few years, peaking at around 15 percent in FY95.  (Annex AS)   The preferred
creditor ratio of debt service to public debt service will decline from 33
percent in FY92 to 25 percent by the end of the decade. The ratio of the Bank's
debt service to exports is projected to decline from 1.9 to 1.1 percent by the
end of the decade.



9-
Eiyvpt's Develogment Agenda
28      E      gypt'" hort-term development agenda derives f0i_ the A d   
to &ccelerttde  r    a        uneployet. t muuT
i.            . .mitres ces and t.e.... . .....    - .e;, -  . .     . e ... .....
t..s  o      C: .  .t...  -...'..'. f:.. e   :  :: indicated   i t
econd Phase o   Reform .
improvement o . naura  aesources manaeetadteevrne
The Second Phase of Reforms
29.         About eight months ago, the Government embarked on the second phase
of its reform program, deepening the reforms begun in 1991.  The timing,
sequencing and magnitude of these measures are indicated in Annexes I and II.
This phase of the Government' s program is being supported by a Three-Year
Extended Arrangement by the IMP2, a World Bank Structural Adjustment Monitoring
Program (SAMP), the continuation of DDSR granted by Paris Club creditors, and
additional donor support.
30.         In addition to supporting an adequate macroeconomic framework, the
sequence of structural policy actions in the current phase is to: (i) continue
the liberalization of the trade regime, starting with the removal of nearly all
remaining NTBs and a further reduction of tariff rates, particularly on capital
goods; (ii) complete the liberalization of prices in industry and agriculture,
raising energy prices to cover their opportunity costs and decontrolling housing
rents; (iii) continue reforming PBs; (iv) continue reforms in banking and the
securities markets and begin reforms in the insurance sector and the social
insurance and pension systems; (v) broaden regulatory reforms; and (vi) intensify
the privatization of PEs and extend the privatization effort to financial
intermed'aries.
31.         In terms of f1scal policy, the program calls for a further reduction
in the fiscal deficit from about 4.7 percent of GDP in FY93 to 2.6 percent in
FY94 with further, progressive declines to about 0.5 percent by FY96. This
policy is expected to ease financial pressures and further lower nominal and real
interest rates, thus increasing private investment and slowing down the pace of
short-term capital inflows. The Government's tax reform program is aimed at
lowering its dependence on the taxation of international trade while increasing
I/ The Arrangement, which ias approved by the INF Executive Board on Septeseer 20, 1993, is in an amount
equivatent to SDR 400 miltion, or 59 percent of the quota. In view of the country's strong balance of paypents
position, the Goverrmnt of Egypt considers the Arrangement as a precautionary one and may not need to draw upon
it. For the same reason, the SAWP is a monitoring program and does not liwolve lending support for it by the
Bank. This is consistent with Uorld Bank policies.



- 10 -
its reliance on broad-based domestic taxes and Improving the transparency of the
tax system. The Government plans to introduce a full retail level value-added
tax.  On the expenditure side, the Government has requested IMF technical
assistance to study systems and procedures covering budgeting, expenditure
control and financial management. The Government's planned investment gives
priority to basic education, preventive health care, vocational training and
skill development, infrastructure complementary to private investment and the
prevention of enviror.mental degradation.
32.         Monetary and exchange rate policles, supported by the fiscal stance,
would aim at further reducing inflationary pressure and at supporting economic
stability and sustainatle adjustment. At the same time, monetary policies are
intended to ensure that ample credit is available for private sector investment.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has set the rate of growth
of liquidity at 12 percent in FY94 (down from 16.5 percent in FY93). The CBE
will continue to influence money market conditions through indirect monetary
control instruments.   The Government expects that these targets will be
compatible with a slowdown in capital inflows, a reduction in sterilization, a
fall in interest rates and exchange stability.
Public Enterprise Reform and Private Sector Development. lncludinm Privatization
33.         The Government's focus of PE reform in the medium-term is to maintain
financial discipline and to regularly monitor key performance indicators (profit
and return targets). The objective is to ensure that profits from healthy PEe
are maximized and that the restructuring of loss-making (but viable) PB., as well
as the liquidation of non-viable PEs, is done according to agreed objectives and
criteria.
34.         As seen in the preceding section, the first phase of ERSAP has
successfully removed important constraints to Private Sector Development (PSD).
There are still several important constraints to PSD in Egypt, many of which are
expected to be dealt with during the second phase of IRSAP. These include
further price and trade liberalization, regulatory, banking and security market
reforms. However, the cornerstone of the Government's private sector development
effort lies in the privatization of public enterprises.
35.         The Government has taken action to strengthen its institutional
capacity. It has most recently appointed a Minister to take charge of PEs, and
is planning a comprehensive program of additional prIvatIzatIon on the basis of
agreed upon performance criteria.  The targets that were to be reached and
actions to be taken by December 31, 1993, are indicated in Annex II. By June 30,
1994, the Government is expected to bring to the point of sale (POS) all of the
remaining assets of the FY93-94 privatization program (i.e. an additional US$2.1
billion equivalent) and complete the sale of a further US$0.9 billion equivalent.
Cumulatively, therefore, the Government, by June 30, 1994, is expected to bring
to the POS assets equivalent to US$3.2 billion and sell US$1.6 billion. As of
September 30, 1993 the Government has brought to POS the equivalent of US$840
million (26 percent of target) and actually sold assets of US$460 million (29
percent of target).
36.         As of December 31, 1993, the Government reports that it has completed
8 sales out of the 22 companies and assets with a value of US$200 million, and



- 11 -
that it has also sold similar additional assets and equity with a value of US$330
million. The Government has also informed the Bank that it has brought to the
POS assets equivalent to US$811 million from it. FY93-94 privatization program.3
According to the Government's targets, by the end of 1995, RC assets
of US$11.2 billion (51 percent of total HC assets) are expected to
have been brought to the POS and, US$9.4 billion (43 percent of total
HC aisets) are expected to have been sold.  Meeting the agreed
targets will require significant Government effort and a good market
response.
Human Resources Development. Poverty Alleviation and Improvement of the Social
SafetZ Net
37.        The Government plans to build on the series of reforms carried out
since 1987, which have put many of the needed building blocks in place. It has
now made human resources development a top national priority, is giving it a
central role in the second phase of the economic reform program and has announced
that it will establish a core team within the Cabinet to prepare a Natlonal Human
Resources Strategy.
The  bjetivs o  the Government's reforms in) this area ar. to.<
portprivate se:torled growth in fan open economy, to overhaul the
tools  ith wich poerty  an be redoe   ad orais  the leeI  o
=ua  eelpeti = >   egyt  o  aievethseojetie  by the year,
0 it   stself three  broad  goals  for social  sector
devlopent  uiver.sal. baschuman services. in ducation and health .
~ Lstrong fam            ...            om        education sytem
v theoperato  of the labor marketo   and to             a stengthenthe
socZial safety net.        - I                ;
-.v   ..   .= un. v.. Q:i                      u .  -n.   -       .
38.        These goals will be through improvements in the effectiveness of
resource use (including greater cost recovery), equity of access to human
services, improved quality, mobilizing additional resources from the private
sector, and getting significant improvements to the planning and implementation
capacity of the service delivery ministries and agencies at both the national and
local levels.
39.        The education system is not supplying the labor market with people
who have a good basic education and developed cognitive skills (half of the labor
force is illiterate). To complement the required macroeconomic response, the
structural imbalance between the skills being provided by the educational system
and demanded by the labor market must also be corrected by additional reform of
the education sector and by discontinuing the policy of guaranteeing employment
to graduates. A new element during this period may be an increase in labor
/ The Bank's review mission, which is currently in the field, milt examine whether the above-mentioned
completed sales, as well as assets brought to the POS, fully meet the agreed definitions of bringing to the
POS and completing sales. Furthermore, the Bank mission will also examine whether the additional assets and
equfty, Indicated as having been sold by the Government, are similar to the original list of 22 companies
and assets agreed with the Goverrnent. Finally, the mission will ascertain whether the Goverruent's
privntization program continues to emphasize the bringing to the POS and sale of whole companies, or an
entire bloc of shares if the Goverroent owns less than 100 percent of the coomany.



- 12 -
movement within the PEs and from the public to the private sector under the PE
reform and privatization programs.
40.         Improvements  in  social  indicators  require  public  expenditure
reallocations in favor of primary level services, notably in under-served rural
areas, and more effective expenditures overall if quality is to improve.  In
1991/92 education and health were 16 percent of the Government's recurrent budget
and increases had essentially done no more than keep pace with population growth.
The Third Five Year Plan increases investments in education and health from 5.5
percent under the previous plan to 13.2 percent.
41.         To minimize the negative impact of the reform measures on the poorer
segments of the working population, the Social Fund for Development (SFD) was
established in March 1991 as a semi-autonomous Government agency. The US$600
million fund supports a set of core programs, comprising numerous small sub-
projects that (a) in the short term, address the immediate and pressing needs of
selected target population groups (e.g., displaced public enterprise workers,
households headed by females, and unskilled and semi-skilled unemployed workers),
and (b) in the medium term, strengthen the Government's capacity to design and
monitor poverty alleviation and social safety net programs. The core programs
include: (i) the provision of essential municipal services; (ii) improvements to
public transport for the poor; (iii) community development activities; (iv)
enterprise development activities; (v) labor mobility enhancement; and (vi)
institutional development activities.   An estimated 6 million people have
benefited directly from SFD subprojects. In addition, the program has created
about 100,000 permanent and 23,000 temporary job opportunities. These numbers
point to the considerable impact the SFD project is now having in Egypt both in
terms of social development and employment creation.   Women have benefited
significantly from disbursements to date either as direct or indirect
beneficiaries. The one program that is delayed is Labor Mobillty, whose progress
is tightly linked to the PE reform and privatization program. The Government has
also strengthened its two existing employment-generating and income-support
programs (Productive Families Program of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the
National Handicraft Program of the Ministry of Local Government).
42.         As it removes the remaining universal consumer subsidies over the
next two years, the Government intends to strengthen the social safety net for
the poor not able to work. In each of the last three years, the Government has
raised benefit levels under two of its existing cash transfer programs. However,
existing benefits have continued to decline in real terms and remain inadequate.
In spite of this, there are long waiting lists of eligible beneficiaries. In
response, the Government is now rationalizing the existing small assistance
schemes and is planning to introduce a new assistance program targeted to the
poor as part of a comprehensive reform of its social safety net.
Improving Natural Resource Management and the Environment
43.         The Government is aware of the serious nature of the environmental
problems and its adverse effects on the sustainability of its economic
development efforts.   Water and soil pollution are reducing agricultural
production, and air and water pollution are major sources of health problems in
urban areas. In addition, the Government is fully cognizant of the degradation
of the country's cultural heritage and coastal zones and the increasing dangers
that their developments pose for significant losses of foreign exchange earnings
from tourism.   Accordingly, the Government has taken several steps to halt
further degradation of the environment and eventually reverse the current trends.
The initial efforts made by the Government were mostly uncoordinated measures to
reduce pollution and encourage better management of the natural resources through



- 13 -
creating incentives for natural resource conservations   the increase in
fertilizer and pesticide prices to eliminate subsidies was partly designed to
reduce water and land pollution. The upward adjustments in petroleum products
and electricity prices were designed to encourage conservation and reduce
pollution.  Recognizing that a comprehensive and coordinated action plan was
needed to address effectively the environmental and natural resource management
problems, the Government with the participation of the Bank and the donor
community has prepared the Environmental Action Plan (EAP). Also based on the
major recommendations of the EAP it enacted a Comprehensive Environmental Law.
44.         The EAP formulated an action oriented program emphasizing the need
for strengthening the institutional framework both at the central government
level and at Governorates. It recommends that extensive technical assistance and
training programs be launched to build an adequate capacity within the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA). In addition the ZAP and the new law require
building institutional capabilities both at the line ministries and the
Governorates.  The Government has already embarked upon a program funded by
various donor countries to strengthen its institutional framework to improve its
natural resource management and to combat environmental degradation.
45.    in addition, the RAP'calls for policy'reforms to'create a milieu wihint .
which market forces generate appropriate .ncentives for efflcient
utilization  of natural -resources and for: the. protect' in  of "thii
environment. .The RAP. concludes:. that  iubtantial progresn is ssenal
in the areai of in.titutionia strengthening and poicy reforms along the
li'ne*s s:uggestedabove `i'f.the inveestments  designd to  sleanilup'  t
environment an'd discourae further         nmneiroeta) degradation are to
succeed.'and be sustainab,le "in the- long-run  In"terma 'of' theectoral
priorities the iAP' recommends that wat-erand. waste  waterb sector
problems of soil, land.and air pollution be given the initpal emhasi..
Benefits and Risks of the ERSAP
46.         On  the  assumption that  the  second phase of ERSAP would be
implemented, it will consolidate the gains made under the first phase, further
improve the incentive system, significantly raise the scope of private sector
participation, increase the efficiency of the public sector, and, thus, increase
the overall productivity growth. More importantly, the proposed policy measures
would result in higher, and sustainable, growth rates and contribute to
employment creation.
47.         However, there are a number of real downside risks to the program.
First, with the ongoing recession and unemployment on the rise, popular support
for economic reform is declining. Strong opposition to the reforms from domestic
industry has developed among powerful interest groups fearing foreign
competition. Reversals in reform measures could initiate a significant outflow
of capital. Second, there has been an increase in the number of terrorist acts.
The most recent threat against foreign tourists was made by Islamic militants
last February. The economic effects have been severe: a 42 percent decline in
tourism revenue, costing Egypt some US$900 million in 1993. Third, the external
environment could change suddenly, if oil prices were to decline further and
donor support was reduced as a result of reversals in reform policies. These
factors may further diminish the Government's room for maneuver.   Donors'
continued strong financial and technical support of the program are therefore
critical to the Government's success.



- 14 -
E. Bank Group Country Assistance traegy
48.         The Bank's assistance strategy for Egypt has evolved over the laet
two years, in response to the Government's request for increased advice and
technical support in the design and implementation of its medium-term economic
adjustment program. The assistance strategy responds to the four objectives of
the development agenda outlined in the preceding section. It has been discussed
with, and agreed by the authorities at regular intervals.   The most recent
discussions took place in December 1993, and were combined with a detailed review
of the Bank's portfolio under implementation. These discussions confirmed that
the Bank should continue to play a leading role in supporting the second phase
of the Government's structural adjustment program, and in aid coordination. In
view of the country's BOP situation and support from other donors at highly
concessional terms, the assistance strategy is to be implemented over the next
two to three years with reduced levels of lending from the IBRD. The discussions
with the authorities have also indicated that the Bank should concentrate its
assistance at helping the Government induce a rapid development of the country's
private sector, develop the country's human resources and reduce poverty, and
protect the country's natural resources and the environment.   The proposed
assistance strategy is elaborated in the following paragraphs and presented
schematically in the matrix on page 18.
Assistance for Economic Reform
49.         The  task  of  bringing  about  sustainable  growth  and  reducing
unemployment remains formidable. For example, even in an optimistic scenario,
for Egypt to have in the year 2000 half of its current level of unemployment, its
private sector would have to create 5 million new jobs; that is about 8 times
the number of jobs that the "established" private sector created during the 1976-
1986 period, a decade of relative fast growth. Having said that, the Government
is right that the only option available to it is to move ahead with the
structural reforms while it maintains macroeconomic stability.   A further
improvement of export competitiveness is, however, necessary.
50.         The policy dialogue and technical assistance to help the Government
carry out its economic reform program has been the centerpiece of the Bank's
country assistance strategy to Egypt.  In support of the first phase of the
Government's reform program, the Bank extended a SAL in May, 1991. The second
tranche was made available in March 1993, but was later cancelled at Government's
request in view of Egypt's favorable BOP position. Also at Government's request,
the Bank, jointly with the IMF, assisted the authorities to design and begin the
implementation of the second phase of the reform program (ERSAP-II).   The
principal targets and policy measures to be adopted are summarized in Annex I and
II. Because of Egypt's strong BOP position, the Government did not request quick
disbursing financial assistance for ERSAP-Il. As was explained to the Board on
September 14, 1993, Bank assistance will consist of helping the Government
monitor the implementation of the program through regular reviews and
significantly, the Bank would be prepared to consider extending quick-disbursing
BOP assistance to support the implementation of the program, if needed.
51.         The Bank's assistance to the Government's reform effort will continue
to entail a major economic and sector work (ESW) program. Further ESW is under
way and planned to cover deregulation of utilities, rent decontrol, the reform



- 15 -
of the social safety net, the sugar subsector, and possibly civil service reform
in support of UNDP-managed technical assistance. In addition, preparation of a
Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled to start late in 1994. It would focus
on Egypt in the year 2000, and would be prepared jointly by the Bank and the
Government. Finally, the Government has recently requested assistance from the
Bank to determine the impact of the peace process in the Middle East on Egypt's
economy.
52.         Institutions and the civil service must be strengthened for the
reforms to succeed. A 1992 IDA credit helped finance the technical assistance
needed for the Government's privatization, public enterprise and banking sector
reforms. An approved Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant is assisting the
Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade in developing a system of safeguards, anti-
dumping and countervailing measures. IDF requests are also being processed to
strengthen the production of national income accounts, and review regulations of
insurance companies and private pension funds. Agreement on the modality and
timetable of Bank support to Government efforts to reform the civil service is
expected to be reached by end FY94. This support would complement efforts by
other donors, such as UNDP, CIDA and ODA. Finally, the Bank will continue to
work closely with the Government teams instituted under ERSAP I to monitor the
reform program, such as the High Ministerial Economic Reform Committee and the
Technical Secretariat.
Assistance for Public Enterprise Reform and Private Sector Developmont.
Including Privatization
53.         The Government's Public Enterprise reform program is ambitious as it
intends to restructure a sector that has dominated the economy for decades as an
engine of growth and employment creation. The gradual establishment of a level
playing field has not been without difficulties. The unemployment situation and
social unrest have limited the Government's room for maneuver. Liquidation and
restructuring of PEs will therefore move at a slower pace than originally
planned.  The Bank has very regularly provided technical support -- through
supervision missions of SAL I and during preparation of the SAMP -- to the
concerned authorities, including the Public Enterprise Office (PRO) which is the
operational arm of the P.R. Minister. The Bank Board has also approved in FY92
a Technical Assistance project to support the P.R., privatization and banking
reforms; not much, however, was disbursed so far.
54.         The need for a rapid development of the private sector is very much
ingrained in the political leadership of the country. The Government has also
to deal, however, with a private sector, a great part of which has developed a
public sector mentality after decades of protection and subsidies.   In its
efforts to achieve sustainable, private sector-led growth, Egypt will face the
following PSD constraints and challenges that need to be addressed and met:
Policy Predictability. Although during times of major structural reform
some policy uncertainty is natural, the average Egyptian business person
receives very partial information on forthcoming policy changes and is,
thus, putting off new investments until "the rules of the game* become
clear. Two sustainability-related aspects of the current macroeconomic
stabilization effort (both rooted in the continuing fiscal deficits)
further discourage private sector confidences the rapid accumulation of



- 16 -
domestic public debt and the increasing loss of external competitiveness.
The Legal and Regulatory System. Restrictive labor laws remain a key
disincentive to private sector growth, specially for potential market
entrants, as do rules on securitization and on intellectual property
rights protection (mostly because of outdated legislation and weak
enforcement). There is no anti-trust law; consumer protection laws are
effectively weak; and, most importantly, trade laws still constitute a
major barrier to international competition. Entry regulations are still
very restrictive and cumbersome, local-level regulations concerning health
and safety standards, technical procedures, labor deployment and
administrative set-ups stifle efficient corporate operations.
Finance. Egypt's banking system does not provide long-term credit to the
private sector; credit to micro and small enterprises; credit to certain
sectors (e.g., housing); or consumer credit. Also, an array of legal,
regulatory and institutional barriers limit the role of the securities
market as a significant source of finance for the local private sector.
Derivative markets (futures and options) are virtually nonexistent.
Bureaucracy.   The bureaucratic practices of the public institutions
responsible for policy administration and enforcement impose major costs
to business operations in Egypt.   The system is perceived to have
important technical and process inefficiencies; that view applies to
virtually all public organizations dealing with private business. Prlvate
Micro and Small Enterprise Development. Roughly three quarters of the
employment mass that can be expected to expand over the rest of the decade
(i.e., private nonagricultural) is located in private firms with a maximum
of 9 employees. For that class of firms to grow, three main constraints
would have to be dealt with;  the lack of formal credit, the lack of
(local and foreign) market access and the lack of physical space.
S5.         The Bank, during the preparation and supervision of SAL I, as well
as during the preparation of the ERSAP, has and will continue to provide
technical support to the Government in the areas of private sector development
and privatization. Also, financing was made available through the Technical
Assistance project mentioned in paragraph 53 to support the PEO in the
privatization process of PEs. Many of the above constraints and challenges are
to be addressed during the second phase of the Government's ERSAP.   These
constraints to the development of the private sector are analyzed in detail in
the first phase of a Private Sector Assessment (PSA) that has been prepared by
the Bank in collaboration with the private sector. The outcome of the PSA review
will be discussed in a tripartite Private Sector Development Seminar in May, 1994
with representation from the Government, the private sector and the Bank. The
outcome of the Seminar will be an action-oriented plan; it is also expected to
result in the identification of possible operations to be supported by the Bank.



- 17 -
e83JM                                         ::.  '.-*MET OF TH  5HZGI
Assltanc  fo  theDeveopmnt o  H"mndRsources 10  assistanc  shouialo  *nh
Yea  Pln i  exectd t moe tan ou needn rstent  in eoducatlon andhelt
avilable resources wld hzvave setogro attexU sa Batek  thevi   poular'tiohabu
d erentaelo )forent,es  of theJ2     deade. :olThis      of unlikaely an t80 t
Govenmen  wil ned t  addessmeasresto~ impove ¢osezt/PrIati# nessor  Thes
incudeposibl  retritiog o  acerst nd   increasing~  ussr fees an the
secndryan trtar  euctin -vl"  ephsWt:'g1  the ms 2tennc  and bete



- 18 -
use of existing facilities, enlarging the role of the private sector and NOOs,
and attempting innovative solutions (e.g. community funding for supplements to
teachers and medical personnel salaries, fee remission or grants for poor
students, greater involvement of employers in vocational and technical training)
to some of the root causes of low quality, lack of relevance, and lack of access.
57.         The Bank will continue to pursue a two-track strategy in support of
human resource development and poverty alleviatlon identified in the Poverty
Assessment report.  The first track is to support the Government's efforts to
strengthen its social safety net - a key element of the adjustment program. This
was identified as an urgent priority by the Bank's 1991 Poverty Assessment Report
"Egypt: Alleviating Poverty during Structural Adjustment", which outlined the key
elements of a poverty strategy. The first step, the establishment of a donor-
financed Social Fund with IDA participation, is now complete and the Fund is
operating successfully. The second step, to reform and rationalize the set of
existing programs for the non-working poor, and to introduce a new targeted
program for the poor, as the first program under a revised social welfare
strategy, is well underway. Specifically the Government is introducing reforms
to its existing programs identified in cooperation with donors and the Bank, the
focus of which is to introduce significant management changes. The Bank has
provided technical assistance with the design of the new targeted program for the
poor, and the completed proposal is now under discussion within the Government.
The Bank is also engaging in a dialogue with the Government on the future shape
of its social welfare system, including the future of the Social Fund.
58.         The second track of the Bank's human resource development strategy
is to support the Government's longer term reform effort in the social sectors
as set out in paragraph 37. The Bank provided significant technical assistance
on the issue of resource reallocation in the report entitled Egypt: Public Sector
Investment Review (1992). The Government has largely adopted the recommendations
for increases in the absolute amounts and in the proportions of investment funds
going to education and health under the 1993-97 Plve-Year Plan, and within these
sectors towards primary education and preventive health care.  The Bank is
providing technical assistance for the first Living Standards Measurements
Surveys (1994-96), and is managing a study on how to build the capacity of Noos
under economic reform. The Bank, jointly with several other cofinanciers, is
financing with IDA credits two projects (basic education and schistosomiasis),
which support two key aspects of the Government's strategy as it pertains to
education and health. The Bank is discussing possible projects in population and
family health, and education to support other key elements of the Government's
strategy. Nost recently the Government has asked the Bank's help in designing
Its comprehensive human resources strategy, which is to be prepared by a core
human resources team in the Cabinet. There are numerous donors providing
assistance in the social sectors.   A Human Resources Donors Group has been
established recently in Egypt to liaise with the Government and to ensure better
donor coordination.
Assistance for improving Natural Resource Mana8ement and the Environment
59.         As stated in the preceeding section, the Government's EAP is sound
and the recent passage of the Environmental Law is a major step in the right
direction. However, there is a need to further coordinate the efforts of various
donor countries to formulate a focused implementation program. This is expected



- 19 -
to take place in light of the decisions of the recent Consultative Group meeting
to improve donor coordination. In addition, there are still a number of areas in
which policy reforms are needed to create appropriate incentive systems.  In
particular, water charges and water rights issues need to be addressed
effectively and immediately.   Similarly, taxes on gasoline and diesel should be
adjusted to include social and economic costs involved in their use to encourage
users to conserve - i.e. better tuned-up motor vehicles increasing mileage and
reducing air pollution.
60.         The Bank's strategy in assisting Egypt to overcome the serious
environmental problems that it is facing and to lmprove Its natural resource
management consists of the following broad categories of actions. The first
consists of project lending activities that are designed to deal with sectoral
environmental issues. For example; the Bank has been assisting Egypt to overcome
waterlogging and soil salination through a series of projects for field drainage.
Other donori have either cofinanced these schemes or carried out separate
investments for drainage and soil improvement. Besides assisting Egypt in the
formulation of the EAP and sector strategies in agriculture, the Bank has
addressed issues of urban management, and waste water and solid waste disposal
in its project and sector work in Egypt, The Bank is also providing support for
the Matruh Resource Management Project which specifically addresses issues of
natural resource management in the Northwest Coastal area.  The Agricultural
Modernization Project aims, inter alia, to promote efficiency in on-farm water
usage and incorporate environmental screening of investments in mechanization and
agro-industries.
61.         The Bank has also been utilizing the METAP facilities to assist Egypt
to build adequate institutional capabilities and to initiate studies for project
preparation. For example, proposals have been formulated for METAP funding in
the area of water and sewage treatment in the Nile Delta, Coastal Conservation,
Solid Waste Sector and improving public/private sector participation for the
protection of the environment.
62.         In line with the recently adopted Agricultural Strategy for the
19909, the Bank has maintained an active dialogue with the Egyptian authorities
to facilitate formation of water user groups, introduce cost sharing arrangements
for water usage, promote local participation in determining investment
priorities, divest public involvement in trade and provision of services in favor
of the private sector, and adopt necessary institutional reforms in the various
agencies engaged in the agricultural sector. The Government has indicated its
commitment to carry out these actions and the Agricultural Modernization Project
includes several of these elements.
63.         In addition, the Bank is maintaining its presence in the area of
environment to play a catalytic role in coordinating donor activities and donor-
funded projects/technical assistance programs. The Bank also agreed with the
Government that, if so requested, it would provide IDA funding for a core
environmental project.



- 20 -
Aid Coordination and Cooperation with the IMN and UNDP
64.         The Bank's proposed strategy also aims at mobilizing the donor
community, to continue providing financial support to the Government's reform
program. Aid coordinatlon is pursued at three levels: i) local coordination of
the donors in Cairo, undertaken by the Resident Mission; ii) the continuation of
the Consultative Group (CG) process and iii) contacts at senior management levels
with key donors and the Government. The last CG meeting was held in Paris on
January 25-26, 1994. At the four separate technical meetings focusing on private
sector development and privatization, social sectors, agriculture and environment
that were organized, participants emphasized the need for the Government to move
swiftly with its reform program and to strengthen project implementation and
absorptive capacity. It was suggested, subject to Government confirmation, that
an interim meeting could take place in Cairo ln-between CGs, possibly in December
1994. Follow-up formal CG meetings could then be scheduled in eighteen month
cycles with the next CG in June, 1995. Since the format of the January 1994 CG
was appreciated by the Government and donors, it was agreed that a similar format
would be used in future.
65.         As in the case of SAL I, there has been close cooperation with the
IMF on the preparation of the structural policy actions and the macroeconomic
framework of the three-year extended arrangement. Joint Bank-IMF missions have
taken place during preparation and evaluation of ERSAP II. The Bank has provided
the IMF with comprehensive analyses of the financial sector, the regulatory
framework, the tax system, and the public investment program, which have been
used as background work in the preparation of the matrix of policy actions (Annex
II). Similarly, cooperation with UWDP has proven to be very fruitful. UNDP, in
agreement with the Government, has allocated a large share of its funds to
strengthening institutions that are implementing Bank-supported projects, such
as the Social Fund, the Public Enterprise Office, and the Tourism Development
Authority.
Lending Profram
66.         Because of its low per capita income, Egypt continues to qualify for
a blend of IBRD and IDA resources. Most IDA resources are earmarked for projects
in the social sectors, the environment, agriculture and technical assistance.
Because of the tight fiscal situation (which has led to a decline in public
investments and has limited counterpart funding), but also because of the
availability of highly concessional assistance from other sources the Government
and the Bank agreed to reduce the lending program over the next two to three
years. In addition to IDA resources of SDR 58 million per annum allocated during
FY94/96, it is expected that annual borrowing from the IBRD will be less than
$100 million. The possible lending program is still being discussed with the
Government to ensure that projects to be financed by the Bank are the result of
close consultation and are of the highest priority for the country.  At the
suggestion of the Bank, a specific process was agreed upon aimed at reducing
late-in-the-process droppages of projects on which considerable Bank resources
had been spent.  Agreement on projects in private sector development, human
resources, environment, and agriculture, will result in a lending program whose
structure will be substantially different from that of the recent past with
regard to the areas of concentration. As initiated in FY93 (see paragraph 67),
this would imply that the previous focus on power, industry and infrastructure



- 21 -
will be substantially reduced.  Possible operations that are being discussed
include a core environmental project, irrigation improvement, inlands waterways
and education.  The Bank, still a lender of last resort, could increase its
lending should a deterioration of Egypt's external economic environment threaten
the implementation of the Government's adjustment program. On the other hand,
Bank Group lending could be further curtailed if there were slippages in economic
performance and a deterioration in portfolio implementation.
67.         As of December 31, 1993, the Bank Group approved 60 loans and 37
credits to Egypt.    Total  commitments amounted to  $4.3 billion,  net of
cancellations, of which US$3.3 billion were disbursed.  Of the Bank Group's
commitments, about 48 percent supported projects in power and industry; 22
percent in agriculture; 13 percent in infrastructure; 10 percent in human
resources development; and about 6 percent in structural adjustment. In FY93,
the Bank Group approved three projects for education, private sector tourism, and
resource management in the Matruh area. Eight of the currently ongoing projects
were approved prior to June 1987 and are expected to close by June 30, 1994.
Ongoing Bank/IDA supported projects have mobilized about US$1.9 billion in
cofinancing, equivalent to more than 100 percent of the Bank's contribution.
68.         IFC Investments as of December 31, 1993 include US$57 million in
equity and US$75 million in loans. Investments for PY94 and FY95 will focus on
projects that support privatization and public enterprise restructuring.
Tourism, the petroleum sector, including in particular natural gas, and
infrastructure projects, particularly communications and power generation,
represent good opportunities for the medium term. IFC's strategy for capital
markets development in Egypt will continue to focus on providing technical
assistance to the Government on financial market issues, helping to develop more
market-oriented financial systems, and channelling resources for the emerging
private sector. This support for the private sector includes the establishment
of collective investment vehicles (e.g. foreign or domestic investment funds),
the promotion of venture capital institutions and the provision of lines of
credit to appropriate financial institutions for on-lending to small and medium-
sized enterprises.
69.         In the securities markets area, IFC proposes to help establish
specialized intermediaries for investment banking, mutual fund management and
brokerage activities.   In the insurance sector,  IFC plans to enlist the
participation of a reputable international insurance group to provide the
necessary technical inputs for the formation of a private sector insurance
company. IFC also proposes to help establish a leasing company once the leasing
legislation is enacted. Egypt is a member of MIGA but so far, there have been
no MIGA guarantee agreements in Egypt.
Portfolio ImDlementation
70.         A Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) was held in Cairo in
December 1993 as part of the Strategy Discussions. The CPPR was preceded by
Sector Portfolio Performance Reviews (SPPRs) for agriculture and human resources.
A Country Portfolio Implementation Plan (CPIP) was prepared as background for the
CPPR, and Government counterparts participated in the preparations for the CPPR.
The CPPR dealt with project specific outstanding issues, and with cross-sector
generic issues.  The CPPR reached agreements with the Government on several



- 22 -
fronts including the closure of overage projects, the utilization of IDA funds
under the TA project of PE Reform, Privatization and Banking Reform, the
financial covenants of the power projects and on procurement issues. This CPPR
process is now an annual event, which is fully supported by Government.
71.         Over the past two years, increasing attention has been paid by the
Government and the Bank to project implementatlon and portfolio clean-up.
Supervision resources sharply increased as did the share of supervision resources
located in the Resident Mission in Cairo which indicates greater responsibilities
being transferred to the Resident Mission (Annex Al). However, there has also
been a significant increase in the share of problem projects. Factors external
to the projects themselves bear significant responsibility for the increase in
problem projects. Most noticeably this is the case in the agriculture, industry
and energy sectors, where charges in policies in line with ERSAP have affected
performance under projects originally designed to operate in a different
environment.   On the positive side,  disbursements on all projects under
implementation, as a percent of opening undisbursed balances, increased from 11.7
percent in FY92 to 17.4 percent in FY93. The same disbursement figure, excluding
SAL I, also increased from about 9 percent in FY92 to 13 percent in FY93. The
overall rating of the portfolio has also slightly improved.  A disbursement
workshop that took place in FY93 is expected to further improve project
implementation. Workshops on procurement, accounting and auditing were organized
this fiscal year. Timely submission of audit reports, a major problem in the
past, is another improvement in the last year.   In FY93, two projects were
closed, and US$26.5 million, committed for projects that the Government thought
no longer deserved priority, were cancelled. An important concern continues to
be the delayed effectiveness of Bank loans and IDA credits, which require
ratification by Parliament. Ways to expedite the approval process are being
explored with the authorities. Except in the power sector, the implementing
agencies and the Government are in general compliance with the covenants
stipulated in the loan agreements.   With regard to the two on-going power
projects, the Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA) has been in compliance with
the audit covenants, but is in default with the financial covenants for FY92 and
FY93, and is unlikely to be in compliance for FY94. Related technical issues,
such as the pricing of natural gas, are being discussed with the authorities.
Should these issues not be resolved during FY94, Bank management may have to
decide to suspend disbursements for these two projects.
F. Aenda for Board Consideration
72.         The Government is implementing its reform program at a pace it
considers appropriate in view of the country's political and social constraints.
Despite awareness of the political risks in the short term, the Government is
also aware of the risks to the economy over the medium term if it does not
continue implementing the reform program. A loss of credibility in the reform
program could lead to capital flight, a sharp depreciation of the currency and
a significant decline in an already low level of private investment; Egypt could
also lose a portion of the financial assistance it is currently receiving from
the donor community. Given opposition to the reforms among powerful interest
groups, and the sharp increase in the level of violence by extremist groups, it
is expected that the Government will move judiciously to ensure continued popular
support for the reform program, taking into account social and political
stability.   However,  delays in the implementation of the reform program,



- 23 -
particularly in the privatization of public enterprises and further price
liberalization, may well occur. This would negatively impact on the medium term
prospects described in paragraphs 24-25, both in terms of growth and employment
generation.   Given the downside risks involved (paragraph 47), the Bank's
continued strong technical and, if necessary, financial support to the program
are critical for the Government's success.
73.         Although Bank lending to Egypt at this time is likely to be modest
in relation to the size of t.ie Egyptian economy, the Bank should continue to play
a critical role through providing direct technical assistance and significant
economic and sector work, with the areas of emphasis continuing to be decided in
close consultation with the Government.
i.**. ..T.h*: < 'i'v...     . X  ..
...t he eeon~m4c z?,f  ..o...
H. AGRIUTR  AN  RUAL  IAC
A. AWculh
74.         Agriculture is an important sector, employing about 35 per cent of
the labor force. Only about three per cent of the total land area is arable and
average holdings are about 0.8 ha.   In these circumstances, agricultural
intensifieation and fficient use of the country s limited water resources assum
central importance for growth in the sector.
75.         The agricultural sector has led policy reforms in Egypt since the
mid-80s. Lifting of crop area allocations for various crops, removal of controls
on pricing and marketing of inputs and outputs, elimLnation of input subsidies,
and adoption of market-based lending rates have led to impressive productivity
gains. Liberalization of cotton marketing is underway and the cotton commodity
exchange, which was closed in the 1960s,, in expected to re-open to market the
current crop. Recent reform in the land tenure law allows for land rents to be
raised three-fold during a five-year transitional period after which they would
become market determined and owners would be able to protect their ownership
rights over land.  These initiatives, when consolidated through adoption of
improved technologies and strengthened institutions, would go far in raising
agricultural productivity and rural incomes.



- 24 -
76.         The  recently  completed  report  *Arab  Republic  of  Egypt:  An
Agricultural Strategy for the 1990s" (Report No. 11083-ECT) noted that access to
improved technology and promotion of agro-related enterprises are key to adding
value to rural output, increasing rural income and reducing rural-urban
migration. Provision of medium- and long-term investment finance by the banking
system, access to markets, and provision of technology support to investors by
private and public institutions play a critical role in this regard.
B. Financdal Intermediation and Rural Fna4nce
77.         Egypt's rural financial system is characterized bys (a) the virtual
absence of commercial banks in meeting small farmer credit needs; (b) an informal
credit system, which provides short-term credit in small amounts; and (c) a
network of rural banks under the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit (PBDAC) which provide seasonal credit as well as term finance for
investment. Commercial bank services are concentrated in urban areas and lending
to the agricultural sector has been only 3.2 per cent of their total credit in
recent years. There are no apparent legal barriers to entry in rural banking.
The prevailing "market failure" and the reluctance of commercial banks to provide
rural credit are largely because of lack of information on rural lending
opportunities, lack of expertise in this area, and the perceived higher risk
involved in rural lending.
78.         There is clearly a need to pursue the objective of introducing
competition in financial markets, through encouraging more active commercial bank
participation in rural financial intermediation. The key actions which need to
be taken to promote commercial banks' activities in rural areas are to make
available information on rural financial markets, provide profiles of rural
investment opportunities, and train staff in rural banking and project appraisal.
The PBDAC has begun to pilot some of these initiatives and thereby demonstrate
to the commercial banks that rural banking can be financially viable.
79.         PBDAC, which will implement the project, has been the principal
source of credit to the rural private sector.  An overwhelming majority of
PBDAC's clients are some three million small farmers; in a portfolio of about LE
4 billion, only an estimated 11,000 loans exceed LE 20,000. PBDAC operates under
Law No. 117 and is answerable to the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) on matters of
the banking law and is supervised by it; it is also answerable to the ministry
of Agriculture, which defines sector priorities and policies. PBDAC is among the
more successful rural financial institutions in developing countries; it realized
an average interest yield of around 17 percent from its loan portfolio during
FY92. About 45 per cent of PBDAC's lending resources needed is derived through
deposit mobilization, 35 per cent through short-term commercial bank borrowings,
and the remainder from external borrowings, grants and equity. Lending rates are
market-determined.   To date, loan collection by PBDAC has remained high,
averaging over 90 per cent. It continues to operate on a profitable basis; FY92
operations generated net income before taxes of about LE 95 million and its pre-
tax return on equity in 1992 was estimated at 14.5 per cent.
80.         The emphasis placed on private sector development and promotion of
competition poses both a challenge and an opportunity for PBDAC to adapt itself
to the changing market environmerAt.  Over the past few years, PBDAC, which had
a monopoly in distribution of feAtilizers and feed materials, has divested these



- 25 -
activities to private traders. With the support of the USAID, it is implementing
a bold program of institutional reform which is wide-ranging and pioneering in
nature. PBDAC plans to diversify its portfolio and increase non-agricultural
lending in rural areas, particularly in the form of medium- and long-term credit
for agro-processing. With a view to controlling staff costs and to re-deploy
surplus staff, PBDAC has planned early retirement of some 6,850 employees over
a three-year period up to FY96; in addition some 2,350 staff would retire in the
normal course. To date, some 1,450 have been given voluntary early retirement
at a cost of LE 29 million, which was financed out of PBDAC's FY92 profits. The
Bank's review of the business plan and financial projections of P8DAC for the
period FY93-97 indicates that with timely implementation of the business plan,
including the redeployment of staff as targeted, the PBDAC would remain a viable
and effective rural financial intermediary.
C. Past Activities and Lessons Learned
81.         About 22 per cent of current Bank Group lending to Egypt has been
devoted to the agricultural sector; seven projects, representing a total lending
of US$362.5 million, are under execution. A large part of these resources are
for irrigation and drainage development. Lessons learned from past activities
are as follows: (i) projects should have limited objectives, be simple in design,
and involve a single project implementing agency; and (ii) the implementing
agency should "own" the project, avoid "start up" delays, and develop competency
in project implementation capacity, particularly in procurement. Past experience
also suggests that availability of counterpart funds and delegation of authority
are important. These aspects have been kept in view in designing the project.
There is a high level of commitment to the project and the PBDAC will ensure
availability of counterpart funding for project purposes.
x01 THE PROJECT
A. i]nkage to the Count  Assistance Strategy
82.         The Agricultural Modernization Project is in conformity with the
Bank's country assistance strategy. It is designed to support private sector
development in the rural areas as well as increase agricultural and rural incomes
by improving access to investment capital and technology for small- and medium-
scale rural operations. Rural banking plays a critical role in this respect.
The project also aims to promote efficiency and competition in the rural credit
market and is a part of reforms in Egypt's financial sector. PBDAC's efforts to
restructure and streamline its organization under the project represents a pilot
effort at administrative reform and improved public sector management both of
which are important to the Bank's strategy in Egypt.
B. Proeet Featum
83.          roject Objectives.   The project's objectives are to:  (i) increase
agricultural productivity by promoting appropriate technological packages at the
farm level; (ii) increase rural income by creating off-farm job opportunities,
including processing and marketing activities, contractual and custom hire
services, and agro-based enterprises; (iii) streamline PBDAC'" organization and
strengthen staff capabilities to enhance its performance as an effective rural



- 26 -
financial institution; (iv) facilitate participation of commercial banks in
supporting rural investments; and (v) improve capabilities of the extension and
technology transfer agents ard bring about effective coordination among the
various agencies engaged in the provision of credit, technology transfer, and
marketing services.
84.         ProjecDescriptionand nplanentationArnugements. The project would provide
financing and advisory services to farmers and rural entrepreneurs; seek to
develop competition in the rural financial market; and launch pilot efforts in
administrative reform and institutional development. By opening up access to
loan funds through an "apex" lending arrangement, the project would seek to
introduce competition in the provision of rural financial services and expand the
currently small base of medium- and long-term lending for agricultural
investmen:. Technical assistance and training would be extended to participating
banks to build up appraisal capability; the project would assist PBDAC to develop
a database on rural financing and investment activities, create profiles of rural
projects and rural clients, and collect and disseminate market information. To
facilitate effective technology dissemination, three existing regional research
and extension stations and 33 extension information and demonstration units would
be strengthened under the project on a pilot basis. These centers would harness
relevant expertise from not only Government sources, but also academia, the
private sector, and the farming community. The units would play an active role
in demonstrating application of improved technology and practices and in
disseminating market information.
85.         The project would finances (a) on-farm technology improvement which
includes, inter alia, installation of modern on-farm irrigation systems,
agricultural equipment and spare parts, and farm inputs; (b) provision of private
custom hire services for land levelling and tillage, seeding, crop husbandry, and
harvesting and storage, and processing and marketing of farm outputs; off-farm
services, such as processing and marketing of farm outputs, provision of
equipment and services for agro-based enterprises; and (c) institutional
development to: (i) train and upgrade PBDAC's as well as the participating banks'
capacity to identify and promote rural investments; and (ii) disseminate improved
farming technology through field demonstration and training, and encourage
investments in improved production and processing technology.
86.         Bank Group lending of US$121.0 million to the project would be in the
form of a Bank loan of US$54.0 million equivalent to PBDAC, with the guarantee
of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and an IDA credit of SDR 48.7 million (US$67.0
million equivalent) to the Arab Republic of Egypt to be made available to PBDAC
and to MALR.  The Bank loan of US$54.0 million and an amount equivalent to
US$46.0 million out of the IDA credit would be utilized by PBDAC for on-lending
and the remaining US$21.0 million equivalent would be utilized for institutional
development. PBDAC would receive the Bank loan and US$46.0 million equivalent
of the IDA credit on IBRD terms. The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
would charge a guarantee fee of 0.125 per cent. PBDAC would bear the foreign
exchange risk; to cover its risk, PBDAC would pay a fee to the Ministry of
Finance. This fee is currently determined to be three per cent of each maturity.
The Ministry of Finance will review this rate at mid-term and adjust it
periodically during the maturity period of the loan, so as to reflect market
conditions. PBDAC would act as an "apex" institution, lending the Bank loan and
the portion of IDA credit earmarked for on-lending purposes through its own



- 27 -
network as well as through other participating banks. The banks participating
in the project would operate a "cash window" and/or a "credit window" -- i.e.,
either sell the proceeds of the Bank loan to importers and utilize the
counterpart local currency resources in on-lending to farmers or investors; or,
alternatively, provide term loans on the basis of sub-project appraisal.
Interest rate' in Egypt are now market-determined and there is relatively easy
capital movement; consequently, interest rates on local currency loans include
an implicit premium that reflects market expectations with regard to exchange
rate changes.   Part of the IDA credit to be utilized for institutional
development would support staff retraining, studies to promote banking
capabilities, and development of technology transfer services through three
"pilot" regional research and extension stations of MALR. The project would be
implemented by a Project Management Department (PMD) in PBDAC. Staff, equipment
and training support would be provided to the PMD.  The technology transfer
component will be implemented by MALR. The PMD would be responsible, inter alla,
to carry out the functions of PBDAC as the apex bank and establish necessary
reporting and monitoring arrangements. It will be responsible also to organize
the studies and training programs under the project.
87.         PBDAC has prepared and submitted to the Bank a business plan which
is aimed at operationalizing the strategy for: (i) increased deposit mobilization
and strengthening of its resource base; (ii) reduction in staffing and other
administrative costs; and (iii) strengthening capabilities in lending and loan
recovery activities, and in financial policy-making and management. Besides
outlining the program for reducing excess staff, the plan provides the benchmarks
for monitoring performance in making rural banking more efficient. This plan
provides the needed reassurance to the Bank on the PBDAC's ownership of the
project objectives and design. Implementation of the Business Plan is already
underway. To maintain the momentum in implementing the needed studies and early
launching of the project, provision has been made for retroactive financing of
up to US$1.0 million (about 1.5 per cent of the Credit amount) for eligible
expenditures incurred after February 1, 1994.
a8.         Agreements Reached. Agreements have been reached that PBDAC would: (a)
appoint, by October 1994, a development banking expert, a loan administration
recovery specialist, and an environmental specialist for 24 months each; (ii)
provide the Bank with a plan and target for deposit mobilization annually; (iii)
furnish to the Bank, by October 1994, and each year thereafter, a report on loan
recovery and ageing of arrears; and (iv) reduce operating expenses and maintain
such expenses at a level which would not exceed 60 per cent of PBDAC's net
interest income by June 1997; (v) develop environmental guidelines and train the
staff in applying the guidelines; and (vi) carry out, together with the Bank, a
mid-term review of the project by December 1997.   There would be standard
covenants regarding audit of PBDAC's accounts, as well as the project account and
special accounts.
89.         The  PBDAC  has:  (i)  nominated  the  Project  Director,  Project
Coordinator and two Deputy Directors of the Project Management Department; (ii)
established a Project Steering Committee and an Implementation Advisory
Committee; and (iii) established an Environmental Office. In addition to the
cross effectiveness condition between the loan and credit agreements, a condition
of effectiveness would be the execution of the financing agreement between the
GOB and PBDAC for passing on the proceeds of the IDA credit.



- 28 -
90.         Project Benerits.  The project would increase rural household incomes
through increased farm production, farm-related business activities, and off-farm
employment generated through custom-hire services and agro-processing. At the
institutional level, the project would streamline and upgrade the activities of
PBDAC and foster competition in the rural financial sector through training P8DAC
employees and those of PBs in rural project appraisal, etc. The economic rate
of return of the project is estimated at 38 per cent.
91.         Project Risks.  The project faces three sigr1ificant risks:   First,
slackening or reversal of macroeconomic reform is a risk which would discourage
investors.   While the current slackness in investment growth seems to be
attributable to economic recession and weak demand, effective implementation of
the private sector development and public sector reform aspects of ERSAP would
be of critical  importance for the project's success.   Second,  delays in
implementation of the redeployment program may occur due to inadequacy of
resources for PBDAC to make severance payments for its redundant staff. The
project provides for retraining so that the displaced employees could be
redeployed to other activities, such as trading and other professions in the
service sector. Third, participation of commercial banks in onlending to the
rural economy which is one of the project's objectives, may develop slowly.
Provision of technical assistance and training under the project should help
reduce this risk.
92.         Environmentd Aspecs.  The project has been classified as OB".  By
financing improved agricultural practices which would result in reduced
consumption of water, fertilizers and pesticides, the project would yield
environmental benefits. To avoid use of funds for sub-projects that might have
adverse environmental impacts, the project would provide for adoption of proper
guidelines, training of relevant staff in the lending institutions as well as the
research and extension staff, and for environmental screening of projects. The
Environmental Adviser of PBDAC, who would be assisted by an internationally
recruited specialist, would oversee the environmental soundness of the
investments made under the project.   The representative of the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (BEAA) who would serve on the project Implementation
Advisory Committee would help to ensure that activities under the project are
consistent with the environmental laws and strategy of the country.
93.         Reconmendations.    I  am  satisfied  that  the  proposed  loan  and
development credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan and development credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1994



- 29 -
SCHEDUIM 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EG
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST AND FINANCNG P-LAN
PROJECT COST SUMARY
('000)
Local      Foreign       Total              Local      Foreign       Total          VForeign   VTotal
Exchange    Bse"
Costs
A. FARN INVESTMENTS        162284.6   177985.8    340270.4             48704.9    53417.1    102122.0               52.3       42.0
B. AGRO-BASED              169800.0   113200.0    283000.0             50960.4    33973.6        84934.0            40.0       34.9
ENTERPRISES
C. INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
1. Rural Banking        118185.5    25927.0    144112.5             32597.8       M81.2      40379.0             19.3       16.6
2. Transfer of           36871.1     16137.5      53008.6           11065.8       4843.2      15909.0            30.4        6.5
Agricultural
Technology                             -  ----------                                                             -  -__--
Sub-Total                  155056.6    42064.5    197121.1           _ 43663.6      12624.4      56288.0            22.4 _   23.1
Total BASELINE COSTS    487141.2    333250.3    820391.5              143328.9    100015.1    243344.0              41.1      100.0
Contingencies
Physical                 1011.4        544.6       1556.0             303.5        163.4        467.0            35.0        0.2
Price                  132632.1    126945.1    259577.2           _ 11541.3      13444.0     2498.3              5 3.8 _   10.2
rotal PROJECT COSTS      620784.7    460740.1   1081524.8             155173.7    113622.5    268796.3              42.3      110.4
lFINANCING PLAN
Local             Foreign           Total             Percent of Total
----------(US$ million)--------                       ----------------
Bank Group
IBRD                        -              54.0              54.0                         20
IDA                        7.4             59.6              67.0                         25
Government/
PEDAC                       89.0                 -              89.0                         33
Investors                   58.8                 -5.8                                        22
Total                      155.2             113.6             268.8                        100.0



- 30 -
CHEDUIEL  B
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PRORCT
PROCUREMENT ME-T1ROD AND DISB-RENWM
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Procurement Ele,t                      I           ,LC       Oth        N.B.P.   Total
1. Goods
1.1 Machinery, Equipment, and Goods                            -       210.1         -        210.1
(100.0)               (100.0)
1.2 Vehicles, Laborny and Office Equipment        5.1         1.2         -          -         6.2
(4.0)      (3.0)                            (4.3)
2. Works
2.1 Civil Works                                     -          5.3         -          -         5.3
(2.1)                            (2.1)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Specialized Services                           -           -        1.8w         -         1.8
(1.8)                  (1.8)
3.2 Studies                                        -           -        o.7          -         0.7
(0.7)                 (0.7)
3.3 Taining                                                             g 9g                   99 
(9-9)                 (9-9)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Demonstration                                        -              4.4          -         4.4
(2.2)                 (2.2)
4.2 nstitutional Restrucuring                                  -          -         26.2       26.2
6. Opefation and Maintenance                                      -          -         4.1        4.1
TOTAL                                                5.0         6.5       226.9       30.3      268.7
(4.0)      (2.4)    (114.6)                (121.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan and I)A credit. Amounts include
contingencies. NBF: Not Bank/lDA Financed.
a/     Procuremnt by private sector under procedures that work efficiently.
kI      Services should be procured in accordance with Uorld Bank guideLines: Use of Consultants by world Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
Services of demonstrations would be procured under Bank/IDA guidelines.



- 31 -
SCHRULEI B
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENT PLAN
Amount Atlocated         Percentage of Expenditures to be
CATEGORY                     (US$ Million            Financed
Equivalent)
Loan           Credit
Atigoat10      Atiocatfon
(1)    Nachinery.                54.0            46.0         100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
equipment    and                                      of local expenditures (ex-factory
goods                                                 cost) or 602 of local expenditures
for other items procured locally.
(2)    Vehicles, laboratory                       3.9         100% of foreign expenditures, 1002
& office equipment                                    of local expenditures (ex-factory
and    training                                       cost) or 702 of local expenditures
materials                                             for other ites procured locally.
(3)    Civil works                                1.9         402 of xpenditures
(4)    bemonstration                              1.9        SX of expenditures
C5)    Expert servfces,                          11.2         100% of expeditures
studies & training
(6)    Unallocated               -                2.1
TOTAL                     54.0            67.0
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001, and it is anticipated that
the Bank loan and IDA credit will be fully disbursed by that date.  The Closing Date
would,  therefore,  be  June  30,  2001.    The  estimated  schedule  of  disbursement  is
summarized below.
3STMATED DISBBEM  SC=)  OF INI LOA A  IDA MM
----- IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year ---------
1994     1995      1996    1997        1998       1999       2000       2001
 ___,,,,,_,_..___--(US$ million)----------------
IBRD Annual               0.0      3.9       4.5       6.6        8.8        9.7      10.1       10.4
IBRD Cumulative           0.0      3.9       8.4    15.0        23.8       33.5       43.6       54.0
IDA Annual                0.0      9.4       9.4       9.8      10.3         9.1        9.2        9.8
IDA Cumulative            0.0      9.4      18.8    28.6        38.9       48.0       57.2       67.0
Total Cumulative          0.0     13.3    27.2    43.6          62.7       81.5    100.8        121.0



- 32 -
SCHEDIULE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYP
AGRCLTUA MODERNZATON PRO.ECT
TIMWETABLE QF-KEY PRO.IEC  PROCE3SSING EVNENT
(a)   Time Taken to Prepare:                     Nine months
(b)   Prepared By:                               FAO/CP, Egyptian authorities
(c)   Preappraisal Missions                      October 1992
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departure:               June 1993
(e)   Negotiationst                              February 7-11, 1994
(f)   Board Presentation:                        March 24, 1994
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:             September 30, 1994
(h)   List of Relevant PCRe and PPARs:
Nile Delta Drainage I                  (Cr. 181)
Upper Egypt Drainage I                 (Cr. 393)
Fruits and Vegetables                  (Ln. 1276)
Upper Egypt Drainage II                (Ln. 1235 and Cr. 637)
Nile Delta Drainage II                 (Ln. 1439 and Cr. 719)
Agricultural Development               (Cr. 830)
First Agro-Industries                  (Cr. 988)
New Land Development                   (Cr. 1083)
Fish Farming Development               (Cr. 1111)
Irrigation Pumping Station Rehab.   (Ln. 2270)
Second Agro-Industries                 (Ln. 2243)
Technical Assistance                   (Cr. 1162)
(i)   Responsibilities for Preparation:
Task Manager                           K. S. Venkatraman
Division Chief                         Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Department Director                    Ram K. Chopra
Regional Vice President                Caio Koch-Weser



- 33 -
SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of December 30. 1993)
Amount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or       fiscal                                                                                      Undis-  Closing
Credit No.      Year   Borrowsr                         Purpose                      Bank          IDA     bursed   Date
.. ........  ......  ..... ..
Credits
30 Credits(s) closed                                                                             885.48
C11560-EGT     1981    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF           BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL W                    56.60       2.99  12/31/93(R)
C22760-EGT     1991    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          EMERGENCY SOCIAL FUN                    140.00     127.77  06/30/97
c23130-EGT     1992    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC Of          NATIONAL DRAINAGE                        75.00      76.92  12/31/99
C24020-EGT     1992    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF           TA PRIVATIZATION                         9.00       8.62  06/30/98
C24030-EGT     1992    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONT                    26.84       27.07  06/30/99
f   C24760-£GT     1993    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF           BASIC EDUCATION PROJ                    55.50      55.24  12/31/02
*   C25040-EGT     1993    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          MATRUH RESOURCE MANA                     22.00      21.96  12/31/01
TOTAL nuiber Credits      7                                                                      384.94      320.57
Loans
.......                                                                            1961
45 Loans(s) closed                                                                1,966.10
L24580-EGT     1984    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          SMI II                      95.00                   14.08  06/30/94(R)
L24590-EGT     1984    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          EXPORT PROMOTION            52.27                   15.12  06/30/94(R)
L24600-EGT     1984    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          CONSTR. IND.                28.79                    5.93  06/30/94(R)
L25610-EGT     1985    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          AGRIC.DEVT. II              80.00                    3.33  03/31/94(R)
L25620-EGT     1985    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          DRAINAGE V                  63.00                    4.27  03/31/94(R)
L25940-EGT     1985    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          VOC.TRNG.ELECTRICITY        19.30                    5.82  06/30/94(R)
L27320-EGT     1986    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          CHANNEL MAINT.              28.00                    9.77  06/30/94
L32710-EGT     1989    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          AGRICULTURE STORAGf         18.50                   14.96  12/31/95
L31030-EGT     1989    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          POWER IV                   165.00                  116.57  12/31/95
L31370-EGT     1990    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          ENGINEERING & TECHNI        30.50                   30.16  06/30/96
L31980-EGT     1990    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          IRRIG./PUMPING              31.00                   25.83  12/31/97
L33540-EGT     1991    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          GAS INVESTMENT PROJE        84.00                   41.25  12/31/97
L34170-EGT     1992    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          NATIONAL DRAINAGE           45.00                   45.00  12/31/99
L34410-EGT     1992    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF          KUREIMAT POWER PROJE       220.00                  210.93  06/30/99
*   L36050-EGT     1993    EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF           PVt SEC tCWRISM INF       130.00                  130.00
TOTAL nutber Loans -   15                                                          1,090.37                  673.03
TOTAL**                                                          3,056.46    1,270.42
of which repaid                                                1,248.02        60.34
.........   ............. .. .. 
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                          1,808.44    1,210.08
Amount sold                7.48
of which repaid         7.48
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                          993.60
Notes:
.....................
* Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
*** Total Approved, Repayments, ard Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formatly revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historicat value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department off ical data and are not taken
from the Task Btdget file.



- 34 -
SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of 1FC Investments
(As of November 30.  1993T
aris,   bt aavet bn                    t)d
e        Obt faceTypo of P                                       Iu1is C9SQ tud         ui 6ci1            g   12331
1976     Arab Carmics                                                                            .4.              .
1982     C9nY                           CrnIc                       1.2     6.5     7.7          0.6             0.4
1978     Mile Clothing                  Textiles                   0.2      0.4     0.6          *
1978     Delut  S;,ar Comny             Food/Fpod Procesing        3.5    20.0    23.5           2.5             2.3
1983
1979      ismilia Nisr Poultry           Food/Food
1982     Ca-nY                          Processing                 2.3    12.1    14.4           1.6             1.6
1980     tasolla fish forming           Food/Food
1981     Ccnpey                         Processing                  1.0     4.0     5.0
1983
1980     Suez Cmnt Cmn                  Cawe/Costruction
(Guattamie Project)            Materials                  *      30.0    30.0
1982     Crocodile Tourist
Project Company                Tourism                    O.T     4.4     5.1          1.4              1.4
1983     Atlxandria National             Iron & Steel
Iron & Steel Cafpmny (A1iSOK)                             7.2    9f.2   102.4          4.6     *       4.6
1-°1         ANSOK Swap I                Iron I Steol               *      34.60   34.6                 15.7   '15.7
192          ANSOK Swap It               Iran & Stel*                      24.70   24.7                 24.7    24.7
1985     Misr Financial                 CapItal Markets             0.5     1.5     2.0          0.1              0.1
Investrnts Co.
1986     Aluminum Sulphate               hoami als S
Petrocheafoats             0.6     *       0.6          0.6     *        0.6
1986     Meleih 01l D<e.lopnt           Oi Oevetopment
1987     & ExplortonI                     Exploration             41.7      -      41.7         30.8     *      30.8
1992
1988     Uechtel Egype                  Unglneertng Consulting    0.1       *       0.1          0.1             0.1
1988     Phoenix Resources              Oil Development                                                             .
Co*pany of Egypt                                                 20.0    20.0                  0.4      0.4-
1991     At tardI                       Pulp Paper L basrd          *       6.2     6.2                  5.7     5.7
1991     Victoria UnIted Hotal          Tourism                     0.5     5.3     5.8
1991     Egyptian Tourism
Investment Compmny            Capital Markets             2.3     *       2.3          1.9     *        1.9
1992     Pioneer EgYpt                  Food/Food Processing        1.2     *       1.2          1.1     *        1.1
1992     Serene 3.ach totel'            Tourism                     1.2     7.3     8.7          1.2     7.5     847
1992     Misr Compressor
Manufacturing Ccmrn            Manufacturing              3.0    13.8    16.8          3.0    13.8    16.8
1993     Carbon Btack - Egot            Chemicals                   1.3     7.0     8.5          1.5     7.0     6.3
1993     iorus'                         Capital Markets            0.0              0.0          0.0     -       0.0
1993     tnternational Egyptian invt' Capital Markets              6.0      *       6.0          6.0     *       6.0
1993     Commercial Int'l Sank          Capitat Markets            16.5            16.3         15.6     *      15.6
1994     Ctub Ras Saoe                  Tourism                     2.4     7.3     9.r          2.4     7.5     9.9
1994     Abu Scan14 Deloeptaaa          Tourism                     1.0     *       1.0          1.0     *       1.0
Totat                                                    X              395.3         75.8    8 23   158.1
of which undisbursed                                                                  23:7    1t:8   rZT
e incltuding Participants
of which $14.76 miltion undisbursed
of which 139,925 undisbur5ed
of which S9,210 undisburstd
of which $6 mitlion in loan and S0.9 million in equity undisbursed
* of which  7.84 mit lion  si toan lw 11,    in equity w-4sbursed
*of uhich loa  smounc is wdisbursed
t of which ecuitv amouts are Undisburseod



I,
to,I 



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
DETAILS OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM
AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM'
1.    Macroeconomic Framework.  The Government's program calls for a further
reduction in the fiscal deficit from about 4 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to 2.6
percent of GDP in 1993/94 and 1 percent of GDP by 1995/96. Monetary policy would
aim at further reducing inflationary pressure. Economic growth is expected to
accelerate to about 2.5 percent in 1993/94 and 3.5 percent in 1994/95; the
inflation rate is expected to decline to about 9 percent p.a. in 1993/94 and then
to 6 percent p.a. in 1994/95. The overall balance of payments surplus, estimated
at about US$3.9 billion in 1992/93, would fall to US$2 billion in 1993/94 and
US$1 billion in 1994/95, reflecting the recovery of imports and projected
reductions in short-term capital inflows.
2.    Tax reforms will lower the dependence on international trade while
increasing revenues from domestic taxes, with improved transparency in the tax
system. The Government will introduce a full retail-level value-added tax, which
will be in place by July 1995. The Government will enhance the base and economic
efficiency of the global income tax.   The renewal of tax holidays was
discontinued in wuly 1993, and the Government, with technical assistance from the
IMF, will review the corporate income tax and investment incentives, and improve
budgeting, expenditure control and financial management.
3.    Public Investment Reform.  The Government's planned investment levels and
their sectoral allocations for 1993/94 and 1994/95 (LE 10.5 billion and LE 10.8
billion, respectively, or about 7.5 percent of GDP) are consistent with both the
macroeconomic framework and the main objectives of the public investment reform
program.    The investments are being prioritized toward basic education,
preventive health care and infrastructure and are complementary to private
investment and the prevention of environmental degradation.-
4.    Social Safety Net.  Along with the streamlining of all major consumer
subsidies, such as food and energy subsidies, there will be a reform of the
existing social assistance programs and the development of new programs targetei
to the poor.   These will include measures to help unemployed and displaced
workers and will be consistent with the Government's fiscal targets.
5.    Trade and Price Liberalization.  The Government has removed almost all
nontariff barriers (NTBs). It intends to reduce the range of import tariffs from
5-80 percent to 5-50 percent while tariff preferences and exceptions to the
maximum tariff would also be significantly reduced.   Tariffs on nearly all
capital goods would be reduced to 5-10 percent by the end of the program.
Finally, the remaining few restrictions on exports would be abolished.
I/ For details please see Annex II - Matrix of Policy Actions.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
6.    The Government plans to free the prices of the remaining three industrial
product groups still subject to price controls by end-December 1993.  In the
energy sector, by end-June 1995, the Government intends to adjust the weighted
average domestic prices of petroleum products to their internationally traded
eauivalents; and electricity prices will cover the long run marginal cost.
7.    The Government intends to present draft legislation to Parliament aimed at
completely deregulating the cotton subsector by December 1993. All remaining
subsidies for fertilizers and pesticides were eliminated in the 1993/94 budget.
By July 1995, the sugar subsector will be liberalized with the removal of
procurement provisions and the remaining subsidies to sugar mills. There will
be a gradual removal of rent controls in the housing sector.
8.    Regulatory and Public Enterprise Reforms and Privatization.  A central
element of the program will be the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, which are
now impeding the entry of private entrepreneurs. The remaining negative list is
being reduced to the minimum required for security, health and environmental
considerations. For changes in the location of a plant, simple registration will
replace licensing. Decrees issued by Governorates for investment approvals and
related procedures will be abolished by end-December 1993. The legal requirements
for the formation of companies and provisions governing the change of plant
locations and exit will all be liberalized.
9.    To improve the efficiency of public enterprises (PEs), the Government will
agree with the holding companies (HC) on an annual basis on profit and return
targets.   Moreover,  there will be annual restructuring/exit programs for
nonviable PEs. The Government has established specific targets, and is committed
to follow a specific timetable for privatization. According to these targets,
by the end of 1995, HC assets of LE 37.2 billion (51 percent of total HC assets)
would have been brought to the point of sale (POS), and assuming proper market
conditions, LE 31.3 billion (43 percent of total RC assets) woula have been sold.
These are ambitious targets in view of progress achieved until March 1993; since
then, however, the pace of privatization has accelerated although, perhaps
because of the recent elections and change in Government, the pace seems to have
slowed down once again.
10.   Financial Sector Reforms.  The envisaged changes in the functioning of the
economy presuppose the active support of the country's financial institutions.
To this end, the Egyptian authorities intend to replace regulations that served
to control the business activities of financial institutions with a regime based
on international standards of prudential regulation, emphasizing such things as
capital requirements and exposure limits. Regulations that discriminate against
private banks or insurance companies will be removed. Bank fees and charges will
be liberalized. The privatization of banks and insurance companies will also
begin; in the first instance, all joint-venture banks and insurance companies are
targeted to be privatized through the sale of publicly held shares; in addition,
a major public sector bank and a public sector insurance company are targeted to
be privatized, with a second publicly owned insurance company brought to the
point of sale by the end of the program.



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
11.   To facilitate growth in the issuance and trading of both government and
corporate securities, reforms of the securities market will complement the
changed legal framework. Liberalization measures should improve access for both
traders and clients, while prudential guidelines will ensure fairness,
transparency and the prevention of fraud.
12. The Government is also engaged in reforming the country's social security
and private pension systems. The aim of the reform is to ensure the proper
funding  of  the  system.    By  investing  the  reserves  through  financial
intermediaries, the returns on assets will be both safeguarded and increased, and
by improving the linkages between benefits and contributions, the labor market
distortions will be reduced.
M: \egt\cas\annexl



- 39 -                                    ANNEX II
=                         K0~                                        Page 1of I
1tH
_   4 1                                             1 l    t   
|l~ Iit
10~__                                          di   ___
I            _   _   _                     -               _



IBRIAI0 OBJECTIVESfARVEA OF    r tOulCY AnTIONS TO IE TAKEN    IK)LtCY ACTIONS TO 0E TAKEN    IAOICY ACTIONS TO IL TAKEN     PtOIJCY ACTIONS TO BE TAKlN                                r1OICY ACTIONS TO BE
INTERVENTION                       BY ENI)JULY 1993                 BY END-ECADBER IS3                      BY ENI-JUNE 19S4                 BY ENI)-DVCEC%t8ER I994            TAKFN BY END-JUNE 1995
Periode a4jmtment of spKci_i                                                                                                                     Reuiew the stamp cm for
aclsesfeisitcharges eves~r 1IS                                                                                                                   cons1tenry witb nwr rxformed
months for ldbttn,. so Indexation.                                                                                                                xa and ha hnset the retefo d
b. Expenditure Policy         Rteuest tSIMF mishn an budgeting.    Increase resurees for opertion ad   Agre n program of sdorm no           Coni e iknpenlsing areed    I        ontiue anpdemmta*ggreed
expodiatre control, aNdW lnanclal   aatoae  deros setors ntiie           budgeting. exspntomre control. and    reoras an budgtary. exspoditure   xvtorms ns budgltay. epaedture
mantoeent. Mission to study         os erall budgtd tartets.             raac  maagemt. etibegn              contral, and roca management.       central. and r6cea manam t.
systems an procedurs                                                     imnpketatn i  reas not related
_____ _____ _____ _____ ___   _ _____ _____ _____ _____ __  __ _____ _____ _____ ___  to   budget  cyck.
C. PUk Sector loveslment      Ensre thai pubic setor investment   Prio,IU   public Ivestent loward     Assess tmplt tWtioo of the agreed    Ae  impletshttion of the agreed    Asss imptanp    sation otihe ageed
under tbe tveeYear r1a is coanis-   basc educatin. preetive bealb        program,                            Progrm,                             prrm.
tent with the recomadats of         care, reeah, Inwrastrctre
tbe Ba  and wit te macro-           complanotary to privats
econonic framework. Slte aN         invessot, poveedy alkevItion, and
sectrel axao of 1993194 an          prevtion of eaviromental
994195 Inet ent broay in lIe        degradation. IURD to montor.
vith ISRD recomuendatio .
d. Ciltt Saerke Rtfort it     Freea non-tecbhatl peronwe           Agree ot terms of rtterence and     Cilt senke re ntfs study             Agree on ptan for reform, and txein   llDadt the scope ond contine
hiring by Government.               funding for a study financed        compitetd.                           implrnentatino.                     imotlnuenatie of ti ser t    e
thrugh Institutional Dleveopment                                                                            aefuras.                              0
flu7d gram.t
P. Sacial Safety Net             Subsidy reform program  itioted      Com3plte IBRD labor restractrueg    Impkement tbe new targeted          Contnue isnplemttion of labor        Contiuue inpietneatiun.
limiting comtodity coverage to      studyl agree on a ptl  of action for    program.                         restohgtin7g anud targete dflctnicity
popular bread. Intitate refunn  of  impleumtation. Agree on a                                                and coummodity subsides.
existing cash traosfer  and usas    progr to tagt subsidized
loan programs. Agree oa tems of     electrkity ad commodities, to be
reterene for tBR) study for         ftinad "ithia the estblised frcal
targtIg co_nser sad electricty      target
subid   sad lbor restnaurtg
associated with retormt progtm.
and begin study. ApINt
cumterprt tem.
P. Data Enhancements Il          Agreed to (i) intensify etfforts to  lBin reuar pbtish: dready           Contiute implemtnting agreed        Continue Implteenting agrree         Continue buplerseting apeed
tmprove stoistical base, iacldit    available industral production       program.                            prugram.                             phogram.
Industria prductio  Ind. lbor       bidex, eoploysuen    mptlopnent
masked data, and prke ldicators;   Idicaton, and wage sttistks.
(Ii) Improve balance of payments
statstikc wth tebichad assitance
ro the Fud.
jI This element of the program will be supported by HIND operations outside of the proposed Structural Austmoent Mlonitoring Program.
0 1
0-



BROAD OBJECTIVES/ARFAOF 0 1 )l.tCY ACTIONSTOBETAKEN  I'OtJCY ACTtONSTO BETAKFN 1  O.lCY ACTIONSTO UE TAKEN I POLICYATNtONSTO nE TAKEN                                              MAOICY ATIONS TO BE
tNTER VtNllON                     BY EN-JUI.Y 1993                BY ENS-DECEMBER 3993                  BY 1END-JUNE IP4                tlY F.ND -ECFBER I994             TAKlEN BY ENI-JUNE t99
it                 Govenaiant to request technkal      Cmplete IBRD tchaa osItance    Begin regular pubtisbig of ational
ssitae fow atloal Iome             miaI 1 beain imp  astg             lacme= account.
aeouts tode by anD? gct.             omadaimne
It. Real Setor Refonms
A. Tredr tlPky
a. Impacts                   Ahmoniw  pabbely trade             The _sm m taiff rate ,sb redud                                        The maxiesh     tauif rate reduked  Autboities to review poliqy. w
liberajlsatloo/tsgf reduction      from N0 paeet to 70 peret. AU                                         from 70 percet t 60 pwUnw. All    .bjctiof reducing t  minsu
programs. to IsKude. later .3,,    other tagiff brcket betw                                              other tardff bacets btewee 40 and   taff to below SO pecet by ad-
twilt redafctio, MD introductiou ot    70 pterd sod 30 percet reduced                                    30 percat redu    by 10 peerat    t)ece.ber 1996.
new notarf barier  and so tarff   by I0 pentage  pnIats. eg..                                            poat. ,.g., tAsift roles of
rate increes except wbm oecary   70 prcnt redued to 60 peret.                                            60 pstret reduted to SO perent.    Tariff eteor to be boplemated
to remedy disteostlo  in tArff    6 0 perceat to So pcnt,. so prenrt                                     SO peart to 40 perct,w. and    P        ecmbr 199S
strncttwu    d iatbt ptrjdwe to    t 40 percent. ,d 40 peent to                                          40 penrat to 30 pent. Rnaes of    The mexas         anff rates reduced
VIVtV drits ad obligations undr   30 paent. Rates at 30 peet and                                         30 percent ad beow eot affted.    trom  0 peat to 50 perent. AU
the GATT. Preurlousy banned        bdow ent afttetd.                                                                                        other tarf bracebt btwea
haped  htems will be allocated                                                                                                              50 end 30 pereant eudue by
tariff rates wItho tb agretd tariff                                                                                                         10 pctag poits. Rates ad or
struture.                                                                                                                                  tblow 30 pectie  ot dreffted.
No tariff rates n Imports to be    No tariff rates e hnapots to be    No tariff rates ea Imports to be   No taeiff rates an imtpocts to he  No taidff rates on iaprts to be
increased, 4MCeRt 'Abtn necessay to   increased. except Abe oeceSSay to   increased. C%arpt 'Aben ouessasy to   bncrea. ecliept ibre, ncessary to    icreaed,  ept sAbn rucessawy to
rtmedy ditortinuin tariff bstncturr remedy distortion ha tariff structure  remedy diklotious in itslf structure   ganly deiarti,ns in tagiff snwrtue  re medy diJstoin  in tariff
.i sstlAst prjudki to f1pt's       and without preNjuice to I!pPCs    and udthet prejudke to J'gvytt     aritbout pnju'ice to E)pie's       snrctue and w_hou preudire to
eights and obigatios under the    rghts aod oblgations under the     sights an obligatins under the      ighs and obligtios nuder tbe      EgyVt, sigbti and oblipgai
CATT. Preionsly banned imported   GA1T. rreslowly b _anne Imported   CAMT. resiously baned imported   GAIT. Precualy banne iunowrtd   nudr  the GAIT. trmiveny
items till be a   tocated taziff rates  hnes itil be aloatd taif crafte   ts tm vial he allncated taff  tes  items stil be allocated tariff rates  ba     luspoetd itek s i be
*Aitbin the agred tarif strcture.  uithin tbe agred tarWi stntre.     with  the agred tdiff stnrnture.   sitbin the agreed tariff structure.  aloctd triff rate "within the
reed tariff strcturw.
* Agree on list of capital goods with                                 lmpement progron reducing tariffs   tY red    mber l"St
IBRI) during evaluatio smisuioh                                       on remaning r fItn goods.          Colee pogr  reducien tariffs
- Reduce tariffs on swbst  ofcapitol                                                                     on remaining tapital goods.
good to S or to percent.
- Agr ee o    program ,rogrlsely
redcing tariffs on th reanin
capital Soods to 3 er I0 Percent.
w vh ry few e     .ceptin.       I
/   This del t    tho pogra wi be supported by IRD  peratin  outside ofthbepropsed Strcua  Adjintwmat leloaitring tPogram.
lb    tt'
I-)
1.-
o      -



BROAD OIUECVlV ASIAttEA OF  | POJCY ACTIONS TO tE TAKEN     POLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKFN    POLICY ACTIONS TO PE TAKEN    t'OIJCY ACTIONS TO 0F TAKEN |                                 lOgiCY AMTIONS TO BE
IN1thVENT;OH             f        BY KN)-JUI.Y 19S3                BY END-l AFAMIDER 199I                 BY END-JUNE 199t                BY END-DDCEhUER t1994         1   TAKEN ttY END-JtuNK  99S
Aee. progra  to e"miate                                                Riminae ezcepti  to madam           Implesmet agree pAsn.               Inpan-it ag4 rhe.
emceptiuna to maxima. gaff                                             tetift for Cipgttes ead .tmobile,
elS$ for aloho.                                                        of mar the  1600c ed rept
with domesk axcse ta.
Agree. mct.. plan to reduwe
tarifos  a _uto  bne   of 1300
16000 to maI au  tsntf daing
firt rtiew  mi.__o.
Ellale tariff prefeees, qw                                             hlnate tsriff preferecs for                                             gf   ut taeff p   n.cefs foW
doe govered by interoatinal                                            tomism. exept for arlelohtk                                               t.
trati, ed aep testporsey en                                            berages.
healt   end to iea. 
Elimiate at mporpt ban  *xtepts                                         ent en paiuay to be remove.
texti gament mad their by-                                             Bu Oatestibs mod garments to be
produet end peary to 4.7 perewt                                        revewed in l context of the
afproducto coverag. 11                                                 m.dteral  re areemet and
after wmutiarall rade agntiAtiun
with tew GATT.
E_mat am paib  r approvals.                                             _
Agre en a plan ef ation for        IpW-Wnt og-d apiw pa o
improraig safeguards. at.          stion for sategpard  amti.dumlaa.
dump6n. coutervan dut, and    counaliNg dtias ed standrd
agree eOa  program toiemnine       quality cnntoel merhalts
te teowceat of quaity cntrot
stands  ed fees. apling euly
to botb Impoted and dometik y.
prouce goo  diinn evalatio
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~afm                                                                                                                                               a._  
Agee n draft changet in tam          rset draft lw alwin fore
aflwi$ tfeis train Copan            ttraig compai  to operate en
Io oPate en equa ooti with          eqal footn  ithb dometi Camp
domestic companies.         aniae  to   PardI Dmm ti  eaR  approval.   ________________...
It E ptiom are Itms I aent enatnl scty. envleenet.  ltb, and nato   patrimoy.
*
MD 



BROAD OBJECTI'VESIAREA OF    POLICY ACTIONS TO OF TAKENI  PI)t.CY ACTtONS TO BE TAKEN   .POlICY ACTIONS TO t1E TAKFN I IOIICY AtTtONS TO tlE TAKt ff                                     tItJCY ACMONS TO BE
INTRVENtIOtN                       ISY FND.JUI.Y 391                BY END-DE l'tER t93                     DY END JUNE 199                  BY ENb-DtEt'iSICII 19J             TAKEN BY * lUNL 19t
* Aboi  checks by GAO and COF       *reset drafl bw AusUing ait   Review cusom  procedures and
0 eqoljantot impoe.                 r"aking retrktos on private         streamine as approprte.
- ibeoramUsimport restricted by     sect  cotto lmpots ad export
ltlfJtry of ?etitary  roducdi.      with San y ceirtcatlo ftr
- Ah&b bj   icO  of"the             Impot by Egt.
tndtial  oitohrng Authorit
over Imp"".                         * Introduce titlamo ted Sy-ste  of
. Elinim. torelp  -rtap             C atkssn.
budgetig ad ma discrimination
against private seor (e.g.  het.
cotton),and  mums,e hriertleg
iUortMxS nbvtesdted participation,
la Coverument procuremn so an
equad tooting with doasestk
No new n-ltAiLf bf arers to be      No ae  v-if tsW borders to be        No te no-mnif harriers to be        No uew no-tarif hrets to be          No new uo-lttiff banir to be
introduced. or etpasion of existng    if troduced, or exponion of existing    introducet, oreipammon of atusting    introduced. r expanuisn of exsing    introducd, or expansion of e.iaAing
NTKS writhout prejudke tox Egyptts  NTIB  without pr4udxice to Foj pis'  NTlIs vithout prejudke solrt4m1s    Nl'bTs wthot prejndlce to FripFe    NAt. without pnredke to #'gyseu
cighss under the OAT.                 shts under the GATT.               ights under thte tATT.              eights under the GtATT.              vights under the GATT.
b. Exaeorts                   limUnte quoe ON tanned bides.       Present draft law rtmovlng barers    Eliminate ban o ran    bUe epxorts.                                     Ml10nle ban on srap metatt
to foeige  In train  companiets to                                                                           expcrts.
r_  _   aamt adl seek approval.
B._Prke LlheaIlstioan:
a. Indutry                                                        Elibimate palce conrolf on the
remaining products under
Grop V. 11
b. Fr5y                        Petroleum producfts an gas: retain    Review gas prkit polcy based o     Pretroaeum produces and gas: retain                                     - Petrdoten producu end ga:
SAI. I scxb le and ornmul as a      recommendation of ogog study.    SAt. I shebduk an formaula as a                                             retain SAL I shedule and fomul
flor. Ifcnra   of 10 plasers ln                                          flor.                                                                    as al oor.
prices ot kerosn, diesel oil, and                                                                                                                   Developa progrm to Intorporate
gas-oil,                                                                                                                                          current WoNW marhet prices. distri-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otZionmn . antbuasatton (as
feeded tor fscel reas) by Jun
FJectricty: retts SAI. I shedue as     .lectricity: rtain SAt. I scbetdule s
a floor.                                                                 a   o.
it Coods produced under monopoly condtions or baeihng from subsdt id Inputs.
I-st
t..
o      ,-,
31



BROAl) OSJECTIYESWAREtA OF    rOI.ICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN   I OL.ICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN   t'OL.ICY ACTIONS TO NE TAKEN    FOUICY ACTIONS TO nE TAKEN                                rOaJCY ACTtONS TO BE
INTERVENTION                       Y END-JUtY a93                  BY ENOL'ECbtBER I99                   Bly tND-JUNE 1M99                 SY ENISDF'CEMER 1994I             TAKEN BY FNt jUNE 199
C. Agricuature                Elidmiate all rmainig bdget input   Complhee deregulato cotoa                                               Allow opnaio of cott reatatn
subsidie for fertll . and           pricilg. produaton. 111'   . and                                       (by Sptember 9I).
pesticides. Coar.n   limnation of   gting.t maitaIIng r r  tatioe
fwd subsidis.                      li,t.
Intuiat study on deregolion of     Complete sugar study. agree an                                          Coosarte dergutlaZtio of esgor
sugr sector.                       action rim. ad begin                                                    Sector.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __npleuessin of agreed mmaures.
d. nh"liuss                                                       - ?rese  draft lkw to orlinam,snt    Afer rauaissmenta.u  approval. tr'eut law decontrlling rts for        Continaue to deregulate buldis
decontrolling rents on new  nd     impleenat law decatrolig rets       buildings  Inding bousing to       including bousing uner agrfed
vaaest ud  sts and buildhits.      on naw and satomt tutis and         Pariamen. After Partiaastsary      tinsetable as stated i law.
- ttiat* study of raet contrno lws,   buildigs.                        appromva. bei decontrol.
regubations. ad al housnlg         - Cosplete a study on rta controw
subidies. includi ialst            laws, regultatios,  ad ouing
subsid.                            subsidies; stl a tiettable for
________ _______  ____     ls plse natdio ot.
C. Reguatory Rtetmas:           Abolisht tt domestic conent         Abolsh 'enery intensive indutstries
Matet FaImy. Operation       reqiement.                          frea tb   atve invesament gost.
o"  Exit
re;pe draft of "Unirad Lawt for    Present unified t-aw  to            Implementt 'Uiied Lw"w after        Reew oisup1tnsentation.
all compa^nis includinAg ba pkyrut  P'arliamnt.                        Parliantotary oppowval.
tlenst, mere. ad "rtrttio
provisis. Requi only
regration for locatio cbages.                                                             _ _
Aboib GsCovetnort  detre                                               Replace curet complicated
establiing investmtt approval                                          procedure for company
procedures. prior estabut. ad                                                      sstaiiluent   h ithsample
iV likensing actishties.                                               reittioe.
11                                                      Joint 1tRD)IC.ovenmnent study on   Consp.t4e 1lltU40o4.0rume"t study    stasbih independeat utitities
establishment of an independt      ou establishmtat of an idepenent    regul;ator co ission.
tities regulatory feamewwk to be    utiites regulatory feauek and
. niiasted.                        begin lupteoaetation.
b ThIs etem    of the progrm wti be spporeted by ISI) eprtUtDA    outi  of the poposed Stsctua Adjuat  ls.Nitoecin Program.
old    15
lb4
o 0



- 45-         A~Xi
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 7 of !1
E-J-



BROAD OfJETIVESARf:A OF   I OLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKFN   IPfOLICY ACTlONS TO OE TAKEN    POLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN    tOLICY ACTIONS TO BO  TAKEN I                                       LOlICY ACTIONS TO tE
INTERVENTION                       BY FND-JULY 3993                 BY FND-I)ECEMBIER 193 MBY ENl)JtlNE 199J                                 bY ENI)DtiCEMBER 199JM             TAKEN BY END-JUNE 1995
b. Pnvatisstion It           Issue mmdstes o Wet en of            Targt: compiete aks of the          TarYets: brng to poit of sae        Target: cogette sale of adBitional    Target:  comeite st e of thw
invtation to hit ronsu"Its  "a      22 autst compase brought to th       r seaWg 75 percent (I.E 6.2         30 peent (tl.E? htleel of tte       rfieloing 10 perewt .E 2.7
rttwssd laegnts' to enbance         point of ,,l. throt  btsrch 1993.   billie.l) sd conuplrt* 4sle of       1993194 rivtdatito trograry.         ;ltioo) of the 1993194 roaudzon
oplinontatiso catpacity.            or of ssmitr asets for asn eqivalent *dditional 30 pertet (I.E 2.1      protrs in meeting the jAnne mute    Irfotror.  rosrss *0 mesian the
amount. Tartts: hting to the        tidion) of sstetVcopMuiss"D of      be satnfsctory to the HI1B.          te!rej must be satisfactory to thw
paint of sale ZS pecent (LE 2.3      3194 Privatization tPrgrae .        waccrding to agreed sasuation       1BItit) secrBift to agred
billion) nWd ceosplete tiSn of      lrograts in meeting the  prti idSte   critetis. it                       evlttoc tert. 1
10 p"rent II.E 0.9 bhtiol of the    be satisfactory to te IltiRD.
baok value of the Compasnis         according to tgnost evaluatintn
inctwed it the I993194 rdvotisadon   critetia. _1
Program. Prograt ia metking the
Lrgtdl mtt bt satitsfatry to the
IBlV, according to sgrttd
evauatIo CftI                                       I-   _
Alttmee o   t 1419S5 rdvatiatlo                                         Targets: bring to te paint of sAl    Targets: bring to paint of sale the
nrtgrtnt nblkb shoul ichude ant                                         50 pcnt (tE S.5 billioa) of te       remaining SO peet     5.5
additional IS peent (LE 10.95                                           boo veaue of the tbr ts/companies    btrn) tsd ceoplete sta  of
billiol) of the book value of agl                                       and complet sale of 20 peras        additionl 40 peart (LE 4.4
pbli teterpete.                                                         (LE 2.2  olon) incied in the         bil. of the t994195  itdati t
1994195 rvlisadtoo rrog .           Prgrsm. Plstrs In meeting the        0'
rgrat to meetig the tarzeis mug    t      must be etshfactory to the
be sadsactry to the IbRD.           IBUD, secording to agred
according to otgred eVluaton         ealasto ceittre-. It
crieria. _l
Agree on t9519d Pdvatdao            Torg   being to the Point of sae
Program, coatainn  At latst s       50 pecet 0L  73 bMioe) and
additinl le petet (LE 14            compeete al of 20 pramt
lion) of the ttdal hbok valit o         2E9blio    of the book value of
public enterprises.                 cumpanlaasstsboftha 1995i9d
fra tlsato  Pnreom. hrgre  in
meet   Me et   m ust he
satis oy to te 18RDI acordig
_     to agreed  auatio cri. 2
tI Valus ar bsd on stlattd boo taIts at historittal rest, tet Jtsm  34 1991.
ZI All wrefects tote  prores  I. te peadsato prgram iuill he relted solti) to m_easu  tate by the Coeruot sod other putblcitlo tent itict ats agree te with the IBKD. It is u _esto thattthfe Corusentn   does ottgaa
actul Wsl  of ty Puta  ast y t k  uarnees  tatM 1t nil mplkmt *_mso rs   agre    th te O aslk sie       te conclusioe of sales. Progresi anmeeig Om targts in th pevatlsa&o Program tAiN he masured accordigteo ino
criteia to he agree between tbe Goveruat ad tMe Ba  during the mtiet of the rA iomitored pros.
00
*     Ii
5-i
a-



tRO)D OBJECTIVESJAREA OF    P rOLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN IOLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN    POtlCY ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN I roJCY ACTIONS TO BE TAKFN                                        r) IACY ACTItONS TO St
INTERVENTION                      BY END.JULY 1993                 bY END-DECENIBFR 1993                lBY ENO-JUNE t994                BY END-DOCEMBER t994               TAKF'N BY EN1-JUNE WS
IN1.  !i !a liSf l 0L£ftt f9I30 1  _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  ___
A. B sing Smeft tteofmn                                             Agtm an a panS of action to se     Tareas: brifg to pnt of s"i         Targets: bring to point of tae     T*t"s: bmng to point of sal
Governenst stbrns in joit-venure    40 percent and complet sh4 of      S3 per cet and csosmete sl, of an   rv.ahing 34 pfeet td temslete
bAuk du ng evaluation miuion.      20 p.tten  o Cof  esaut %ham in    additional 40 psmum of tGov""umset   sale of r ,Mi   46 percen of the
Segiu itopkrsesting obpntd plan of         tbanks. lsgres id           sbares is joint-ssturre baukA.      Governvots sham of jsit
action to Sel sharrs i. joint-vu,tsue    meting the is"   mm be        trogre   t iw ieetbe the    " muet   veture baks. Prepes   useeting
bas.                               saisfactor to the It1t3). according    be satistociory to the IBRD.     the M      st be satsctory to
to agreed taasmna Critenria. ij    according to agret  evdl latio     tlhe IBRD. accding to "agd
_____________________________       _a-ISa-rCA.  ,O evalontn                       cu ed ..    11
Agre o sdectIon  f  major          Tr:a tSing to die pa ot
publc sectr bank for petlatiossa .    oe mor pub  satera hk tand
compee sal by twombor 199S.
rtogress in meeting &th lafi mus
be sthifacay to te IUADW.
accosdin*g to areed evantaf
crteet. Is
Reduce forebig cnevcy  arse          esitew %ith Fund th feoribi1ity od  Monitor prgrns for reduction of   Monitor rcon derta
reqwnemt fOt  Is percent to        reducing o t   Aenrting the         rener rt stesa.                     r        .                             -
10 pesrea.                         reserv reqe.raeska iaLing into
.comm the bwrde of sktrllang
nam balancef dpspauen  inflos._________
*ntrodue rpaba  agreemtt ae
a amem to control shoct-ken
. Reave diret cotrok on bnk         Intduce a prWm to redute the                                              to    red progm for              o Rd-Dhet 99:
lening to pubMic seor tompana       a     exawore te a single uto¢soer                                     reion Ofter oeall bonk              AN hosM to cbmt*  with
- ubsb artd brancingt cueina   to 30 pecnt of the biwkt c tal                                              eap*%ur to a single c*etue.         30 prent aelpoee Notk.
_amuing eqsa masket access to      an 4eulard by the  nIeA Comouittee.
intant privat ad pbl banks.         Agree scbedule tor catsp  e.
- Remov     e eemlnig Cooing an     Lberan bapMs fOka and chare                                             resse to palim  law reoing
Iateres rat (or defman  depoi.      by seting minim  at arm  ad                                              aasmas ad minisnm lnmt on
* erit nft bok cutme  to lreely   masels. at ad  owotstnea  cages.
Chatw boa wit_at posiso of          lve.
cre  nto  bank   or settfing  aS bdalace.                                                                   _  _   _   _  _   _   _   _  _       _   _   _  _   _   _   _
It AU references to the progress in th pevatxatu pror    wa he reatd sty to me es taken by t  Comwt A oer pui st  entitls arsed to  hth 151M. is unde dstn tt the Covasu t doesdnet guarantee
actua sate o y pb        atVyet iW t_ gy an tkee sb bat it u h mat amtwes as agred wkit tbe ank se  at the concuio of sas. PIltogrs in oedtisi thetar is ibe privatisation program w  he _meaurd accosSue to vnatian
esrIlee1 to he agee btweth Covrnut adtheSa Arn thereie  of th  nd moltd progr.



RItuA) OsJECTIVESIAKFA OF  IOLICY ALTUMIS TO DE TAKEN   I'OlUCY ACTIONS TO 8E TAKEN    t POLICY ACTtONS TO SE TAKEN    t'OlICY ALCTONS T) IE TAKEN I                                        POLICY ACTIONS TO) BE
INTERVENTION                       BY ENIUJULY 1M93                  BY ENMO-DECENIMER 1993                   BY END-JUNE 199J4                 BY FNfl-DCEliER 19            [    TAKFN BY END-JUNE 1995
hfaish by e4-S% m*   193 sn
pilenam  by Jauay 19  foigp
cunoc raposr Mat
t0 perent ofcaita dasWied by
.h Beak Coosmtee for singe
cwrreny sad 20 poewea for 6.4*
gross eppowe by cas-Spember
iM3.
fba       data s so tow  up ptuk     Agree.a program to aeslab  credil
sector bmas ami asliicadma to be    gitg bteu.
recavd by t1R) before Ebe
evaluation,  mis on.__                                                       _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _    __  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
B. Secuities Idalkat Refom:      -Fure an imlr emistin  sad          - Age" anc pragram for Improvt g    l Fnconre private swcor reatio of       Coesdte &nplenemadon of
futwr stack esctangswae suljet to   Sb. l*a baomu aimed at                a Cedral swcunue dvpeioe.            preram tao ;prate ie   1at
uifosm seures rery                   asrimp compeus. (i.... accsc to                                           enekrmanmit.
requlremeats.                        security traing Wnd liel g           Estballsla anmr,tw prutertime        - Enlease capacity to fra!gf
broke com sioos. fus trdig.          fund.                                sturites r"eyatso.
l11.1) to  ie  tbe capial            Rod em ansrc    secuvity                                                  - AAMkib cOMPan  t0foret6a
laow   d esecuibe r    _guitlou      rtansactio.                            tesia hmpneathti of prograt to  duc Mre sstem .
- Adopt procedures sod fomat to     improsa Se legal enai4ranut.          * Fhane atock cactaneld-                                                    CD
ie-pkmt leal requIreents,                                                 regLation.
Fmkwt interestue celliegs oo        Agre on em ar     pla to             IMpteMent 6nstit6lo   refOrms in
corporaebands.                       streghe dw CKtA  nd  te stork        ChIA ad stock exchge. udWy
achneges.                             nd "erore, computer  ii.tea
Securities trading.                 _    _--_                 _    _       _    _      __--
C. Isurance SeCtor Rform:                                              Submi to relitamt a ae               Seek fl'arsmatar) appro%al for
Inswatc Law bae  o                   mew enaree as. Upon
iaterati a prudrtil s ndards.        trmusaty approval. iue
excende r bNto.
Beg  to stren   titeEgtIan                                                Complete strmini of atIRA.
Insrane Supervisory Authwky's
EISA) sdovecy mon 6i
Age to ame  tde Ifsrc laew to   DraB samedment to the lw and              Submi to rettament lw as
allow foretg  edgy. and sdd          sed ito tRtib fr Ireset.             degmAco lomrce prtemu. and
prped for emedigt  law                                                    mld  feri- a" sr.
f"  deror_e  te premiums to
we Coun of Mloers fer
0



BROAD) OBJECTIVESIAREA OF    ffll.tCY ACTIONS TO 0E TAKEN    1`OLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN    POLICY ACTIONS TO BF TAKEN    POLICY ACTIONS TO BE TAKXIN                                rOISICY A'TIONS TO BE
INTP4VENMIoN                      BY ENIBJUI.Y 1993                BY ENDO-)ECENMBER 1993                 BY ENI)JUN  1994                B Y END-DECEIMER 199J              TAKlEN BY MD-JIJNE I9
Agre osa P      tM of atio to                                          Target: completetale of Jot-       Tarets: completesale of.Om
pritathe publik epmae N0 to                                            ,-t- coapeate -  bndag to tbe  paik comp    by tbwmber I9.
jas-teetsr compaalm.                                                   pobnt of sa ke piblk company.       and beig te the pint et .]..
t-grs 1i meeti  tbe t       m_t a  e" eed putk compasy by Jl
be s fecIor. to th 3RD.            19S5.   graist ee a_g  the
according to ard "eeatiu           tmnwd  ma be satsfatory to tbe
cekena. It                        t18t13. according to agred
eehisst6a roIltD a. it
D. Soda"  ince amd                                                  Reygw regataio  of tbe pgivate      mplhement sped progrms for         Co_tinue ifmesfio of agreed         Colitnt imptementin of speed
eoreim Reona                                                       PeMo5ptSs pt01b  $yte to         refonmig socalnsranc ad             progrsns.                           prnlsts.
Inprove lete    t nm es and to     pdivate peoa syst .
streagtb paea C    eatog
aloo ins-ter otnaa pneiadeth
standArs.
Agr  wb IBRuD8 m a refom of tbe                                        OBis aoagdeatation of*ered          Contimplemntation of agreed
soial bnanc pensoa sys, tlat                                           program,                             rogna.
woild coatse to be asud oa flly
finde principles "andwudltd
a detaed prtgam of
I  _    _   _   _    _   _    _      .__       _   _   _    _   _   _    I p m  e t t a .                      _   _    _   _   _    _   _        _    _   _    _   _   _    _        __ _   _   _t__           _
V* AU ree_  to the pregVr  il Ote pratiad   progre swa he rted toly to meaue take by       ovenumelt md other pubic swio  tities As agreed to *ih the 3830. It is andbetoadtt thermome don ma garantee
actual sale ot my p_bck asst yet h guartees tht t ill implamist mesu   agreed w_th the Bak almed at the ronclesi  of alat%. reogrs is meetg the targets ;a thpnattla o program  il be measred accor&n to evaanin
entws to be agre bewen the Govaet ad the Dank dBring te rIew of tO  Bas  molored pog
tob
1n
0-
5.-
5-     tH



- 50 -
Pape 1 of 1
Selected Indicators of Portfolio Performrnce and Nanagemnt
Portfolio Performance
No. of Projects under Implum ntation                                25        27           26
Ave. Implemntation Period (years)                                   n.e.        6.1         5.0
X Projects Rated "3" or "4"
Development Objectives                                           8.0       11.0        15.0
Overall Status                                                  12.0       11.0        23.0
Cancelled during FY                                              0          0           0
Average Ratings
Development Objectives                                            1.7        1.8         1.7
Overall Status                                                    2.0        2.0         1.9
Disbursement Ratio (2)                                              12.4       11.7        17.4
Oisbursermnt Lag (X)                                                 n.a.      38.7        24.9
Nuiorandim Item: X Completed Projects Rated
Unsatisfactory                                                                          21.0
Portfolio Management
Supervision Resources (total sas)                                    288        384          506
Average Supervision sws/project                                      11.5       14.2       19.5
Supervision Resources by Location (in X)
X Headquarters                                                    n.a.     99.0         95.0
X Resident Nission                                                n.a.       1.0         5.0
Supervision Resources by Rating Category (sws/project)
Projects rated "1" or "2"                                         11.2     11.5         13.6
Projects rated "3" or "4"                                          9.6     36.6         25.1
emorandwi item: date of last/next CPPR: DOecber 1993/0camber 1994
VW



-51 -                                                   ANNEX A2
Page 1 of 1
BANK FACT SHEET
EGYPT                                         BANK LENDING PROGRAM
8y Sector and Lending Instrunent
(1 of Total Commitments/Disbursements)
Past                     Current        Planned "
-Y9                    FY93         FY94t     2gt fj 2   FY96    12
IBRD and IDA
Commitments (USSm)                  524.0     375.8         207.5       147.8
Sector (%)
Agriculture                                     32.0         10.0       100.0
Industry and Finance
Energy  and Power                    59.0       16.0
Public Sector Management
Infrastructure & Urban Dev.
Human Resources                      27.0        7.0         27.0
Envi rorunent
Mining & Other Extractive
Multisector                                      2.0         63.0
Total                            100.0     100.0        100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0
Lending Instrument (S)
Adjustment Loans                     57.0
Specific Inv. Loans & Others         43.0
Total                            100.0     100.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0
Disbursements (USSm)                105.0      141.0        231.9       242.6     306.7    295.2    274.5
Interest (USSm)                     151.0     125.0         125.0      132.0      127.1    121.5    116.8
IFC
Interest
Approvals (USSm)                     48.9       64.4         31.0        10.9
Sector (S)
Agri-business                                    2.0
Cap. Markets                          5.0                    73.0
Chem-Fertilizer                                              27.0
Infrastructure
Manufacturing                        83.0       64.0
Oil-mining                                      20.0
Tourism                              12.0       14.0                    100.0
Total                             100.0      100.0        100.0       100.0
Investment Instrument (S)
Loans                                94.0       71.0         23.0        69.0
Equity                                6.0       29.0         77.0       31.0
Quasi-equity
Total                             100.0     100.0         100.0       100.0
MIGA Guarantees                       0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0
MIGA Comuitments                      0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0
1/  For 1BRD. IDA and IFC not determined at this time:  will be agreed in April. 1994 during discussions
with the Government.



52                                                           ANNEX A3
Arab Republic of Egypt: Priority Poverty Indicators                         Page 1 of 2
MigYt 2amdE.iamti     44NA.n1
2s30#      JS-20       a-, -W                           hiha
zuk of           YOM         pwa       giafnt    A fta         La%-   hMMa
Andtcor                                                     A           ago      (e         A       p"co_ come     roup
POVERTY
Upperpvtyi                              lowc a .              -           _          _          -           _
Hadco     dc                           %op*                  -           _          _          _
Lower povetyam                          local cr.     _                                           
H     XzX da                           %ofpot                -           -          -          _
GNPp pSpit                                                  170         320        610       1,940        310       1,610
SRORT TERM ZICOMU INDICATOR
UIIUlwbadu ge                           loo =W.               -           -          - _ _
Unlskiled _wal w_a_
Ruzal t.'ru o*(_ _d          _                                         _             _
C4=opwdatindcx                          1987-100             12          19        2C0 0
Lower6a-                                                                 -- 
Food                                      n                  _                    210          _           -
UrboAn                                                                           179 
R*a.                                  _-                                         181      _      .. 
SOCUL INDICWTORS
PubUdihxeoabiA gdWstsou                %*fODP                 _           -          5          _
Pimay                                %sool Spop*             75          71         98         97         113        100
Male                                      ^                 90   .      85        lo5        105         122        106
Female                                                      60          57         90         89         106         98
Mlortality
blf   moetaMty                      tbs. ive biftl         172         139         59         60          70         40
tindw $ wmcaltLy                                                                   8          79          98         53
Madae&                               9%AV  wp                 _                    93         87-         73         70
DPT                                       0                  _           _         90         as          81         74
Chl m&*zizlo(under-S)                      U-                       -               13                       
Life c__U__
TO                                                          49          53         61         64          63         67
FP MAIN                                  tL LOS                       LOS         1.04       L04        0.95        L08
Tow*ife  sw ate                      bkmpw                   a 6.8      5.4         4.2        53         3.7         3.5
Maternal wortaltyraft               100,000 Uwbt                          -          - _        _                      -
PopulWato  growth raft                   lIfant mortalty rate                      Priary enrollment
(pemca)                              (thOm ewfive  ) bfix
6+'                                    250                                       120
5                                      200                                       1           _/1100
4                                                                                 80
3                                                                                 60
100
2                                                                                 40
I                                                                                 2
0                                                                                  0
zWd6os    mid70s       mm                WMSs .17.             wecMo m1470s mmad                        weids U
Ara  ublhodEaMt
-LOW ocom.



-53                                                ANNEX A3
-~ 5           ~              ,Page 2 of 2
Arab Republic of Egypt: Resources And Expenditures
CTakef      ,     vw      _ u         .sat.       dNM           L"'       ban
IndiCAor                                                                                               M110h1U
H INWi RESOURCES
Populadon (mru1991)                     thou              29,389      3,289       53,602    244523   327,5         773,80
Age dependency ratdo                         o              0.91        0.79        0.76       0.87       O.66        0.71
Urbani                          *       % of po             40.7        43.5        47.0       S45        40.1        53.9
Population grovth rta wuwi%                                  2.7         2O         2.2         32          1.9        1.7
Urtan                                                       4.0         2           2.9        45         $.2         3.1
1.abor torct 15-64 )                                           8         10          15         67       1.44*         302
Aboruoture   -%otlab fr r3                                               49                      -           -           -
Indurmy                                                       Is         is 18                              3- __
Female                                                         7          a          10          15         33          32
Fernalc per 100  Ses
Ulrban                                  mmU                   -           -
Rural
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                   tS"ms4X km,401                  1,'101      1,:1      11.015     38,828      23,990
Dewity                                =Op      Al. m        29.0        36.0        $1.0       21.0       7?.0         31D
AgriculWralb Ind                       m     dam             2.7         22         2.6        29.8       47.4        41.8
Changeinagrici      d                         % T04 Q2 O. Q                                                            0.0
Agricultu-landuderirrgtiont                6                           100.0¢      1000        28g         13.7       1>A
ForStS and woodtand                                                       0            0       391       9.197       5,396
Deforestaion (net)                         90.0                          0.0         0.0
I.NCOME
Household iwome
Share oftop 20% ofboulholds           %of income             43          49          *           .          .           _
Share ofbotom 40% ofbou.Mdl                                  19          15          -           _          .
Shareofbotom20%ofbobda &                                      7          5           .           _          _
EXPENDINDME
Food                                    %ofoDP          .            -              3339
Staples                                                       * _                   6.8          - 
Me:4 r* mi, d1*4                           *                                       13.5
lat ituprt>d tot&eiotmu                                    2,112       4,214       8,580     31,762     36,008      44,418
Food aid in emrres                                             _610                1.210      2,228      6,649       4,047
Foodproducdonpeespits                  197941-100            103         106        114         119        122         101
pelzer      T                             k&Us              126.0      177.0       351.0      136.0       475         94.2
Share ofagrk  ulGDGP                    %-id-DP             25.4        21.1        16.7       13.0       28.7           _
Housing                                 %ofCDP                                       6.2          -          _           _
Avehuselboldts psiozepaimoaa                                   .-i
Urban
FiXed bwinmthousVal                     %QfGDP                 _        10.5        2.7          _           _
Fuel and power                          %QGD?                  -                     1.7         _           -           _
Er.rgycoiptio pcrcapfta               kg bUo.suiv.           313        294         59        1,137        350        1,249
Houscholds with etelerdiiy
Urbia                                %*fbousdm                -           -                      -          -           -
Rural                                       
Transport and con       l               %afGDP                 _          _          2            _          _
Fixedivaeant tuansport e                                      _         8.u2        43_
Totl road legth                           lus                                     45,00S
lNVESTXrNT IN VMAN CANPZAL
Access to halth care                    %ofp.                  -          _             
Populationuprpcian                         p               2,0          .866      W116        1.668 
Population per eau                          *              2.03        2,315        489           _          _
Population pr bopital bed                                               491         536         635       1.04*        509
Access to safe wa'                      % afpp.                           _         90.0       814        70.6           _
Urban                                                                              M _   _95.0  96.4      79.3 
Rural                                                                              86.0       663         62.8          _
Oral rthydtf1routhepy u( -5)            %ofeums                a          -          83          38         32
Education
Gross enUrlment ratio
Seconday                            %of3hool.apop.           26         43          82          60         44          56
Female                                     a                 1           31.        71.         51         37
Pupilateachr raio: primary           pupls pC teA             39         35          25         26          39          25
Puoiltherratio: secnday                     *                 23         34          22         21          20
PupilsreachingAaAe4                    %ofoobost               _         95           .          90          -           -
Rcpeatermtu: pdmy                     %oftotn li               ..         7           3          11                      -
flhitera y                          %ofpop (aP 15+)            ..        62          52          45         39           _
Feuale                             %ofni (aP 15+)             -           -         66          $a         32           _
Newspaper circulation                  perthoLpop.            27          25         79          36          _
Source: World Bank Wansesnional Emmncs Depaamt, ApI 1993



Egvt -- Key teonomlc Indicators
... .. ..... .. .. .. ..... .,.. ._. .. .. ..,.. .. .. .,.,,,,,,,...,.. ...,,.. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ..... .. .. .. ... .. .. ..
.................. A. Ictualt ....................        EatlSted        ----------Projected ----------
1988      1989      1990       1991       m               t1993           1994      199S       1996
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_............................................ ..................... ................................................................................. .......... .............. .....    
iATIONAL ACCOU"TS
Gross Domestic Product (as X GDP at Factor Cost)
Agriculture a/                                               19.3X     18.61     18.3X      18.11     18.1X              ..
Itnstry a                                                   30.0%      29.61     29.5X     29.71      29.81              ..
Services a1                                                 50.71      51.81     52.1X      52.11     52.0X              ..
Cross Domestic Product (as X GOP at Harket Prices)
Constnpt Ion                                                   91.81     94.31      95.21     93.01     93.31            96.0x           96.51      96.41     95.31
Gross Investmet                                                24.21     23.3X      21.9x     20.4x      18.2%           tr.0o            17.22     10.5s     19.91
Private Investment                                            8.7X     10.5X       9.11      8.71      7.8n             6.8R             7.21      8.6a     10.1l
Goversweent Investment  11                                   15.51     12.7X      12.81     11.81     10.41            10.2x            10.01      9.91      9.01
Exports GUfS                                                   23.7x     21.4X      24.0X     30.41     26.8x            24.1t            23.1x     23.91     23.8Z
l#q3orts GaIFS                                                39.7X      38.9X     41.1X      43.81     38.31            37.01           36.81      38.71     39.01
Cross  ational Stt vinos                                        4.tx      3.7X       5.41     12.4x     22.41            16.11            15.51     17,1t     18.01
Gross DOcmestic Savings                                         8.21      5.71       4.81      7.01      6.71             4.01             3.5x      3.61      4.7X
Hemorandu.  t ems
Gross Domestic Product (siltlon USS at current prtIces)    30978       33858     35400      32790     35563            3946S           41890      42M24     45662
Gross Domestic Product Per CopIta (USS)                        619       661        675       612       649              704             731        731       763
PImILWc FNAuCE (as X of caP at Current Horket Prcoes)
Current revenues                                               18.61     18.7X      t8.71     18.51     24.71            24.2X           25.31      Z4.8X     24.7X
Current expenditures                                           29.01     28.31      28.41     29.71     30.61            31.7x           31.52      28.71     21.3X
Overatt Surptus (+) or deficit (-) 21                         -24.51    -18.11    -16.5X    -20.01      -5.OX            -4.71            -2.6X     -1.5X     -0.7X
Capitat expenditure 31                                         24.81     17.61      14.01     21.01      9.2X             7.8X            6.91       7.1t      7.3X
foreign financIng                                               4.61      3.51       2.61     13.91      1.51
REAL AIUUAL GROUTU RATES (X)
Gross Donestic Product                                          3.91      3.01      2.51       2.31      0.31             0.51            2.01      3.31       4.31
Gross Domestic Income                                           2.51      1.1X       2.8X      4.81     -0.6X             0.21             1.9X      3.51      4.4X
REAL AHNUAAL PER CAPITA CROWTl RATES (M)
Gross Domestic Product                                          1.5X      0.6X       0.21      0.01     -1.9X            -1.7X            -0.31      1.01      2.01
Total consurptlon                                               0.1X      0.41       0.11     -0.11     -2.2X             0.91             0.31      1.01      1.01
Private Consuiptlon                                             0.4x      7.5X       0.01     -0.11     -1.JX             1.4X             0.81      1.61      1.5X
HONETARY INOICATORS
M2/GDP                                                         64.4X     60.2%      60.71     55.11     72.6X            76.0X            76.31     76.31     75.9X
Growth of HZ (X)                                               11.1X     12.41      21.41     13.4X     57.9X            16.51            12.01      9.51      9.51
Private Sector Llquldity Growth (M)                            11.5X      18.31     19.71     28.5     15.4X            16.5X            12.01      9.51      9.52
(Continuted). -                 Z
0 .
gt'h



*DYPt '- Key EconaMIc Indicators
(Cont mied)
..... . _ - -- Actust          *w------ Etbstlmted    ---------- ProJected --------
*   1988  1969.   1990:    1991         1992           1993            ¶994      lm-5:    1996
... ...................................................  ................................................. .............................     _ _ _ . ------------_____,-------...... ,
BALAXCE Of PAMErs  Uss Niftion)
(iports (goods nd nos)                                      n2s       m8        7912      9320      9522            9510            96       1022m    10850
of WitIch: HerchumdIs  f.o.b.                             3274      2914      314S      3807      3636            3458            3671      3815     4097
Imports (goods ad nole)                                    11690     12469     13709     13907    13633            14611           15397    16592    1709
Of eshIch: Mrchandise  .o.b.                              9841     10294    11441      11425     10040           10495           11023     11861 '  12694
Res urce Balance                                           -4465     -5231    -5796    -4587    -4111              -S101           -5712    -4369.   -6959
Ncg current transfers                                       3406      3556      3766      3783      567             5040            5042      5243*    5453
Curront ccount batanee t1                                 -1237     -3151     -3730    -2438       1257            .390            .729      -496      .75S
Pivete direo t Invest(ent                                    124       124       136       141       359             482             526       626       673
341. toan  (net)                                            1986      1481      1183i      209       163             130             521       535       23?
ofrivatl                                                  1323       912       936       t 171     -12             246             676       712       511
Privata                                                    568       536       297       171       345              43             -10       -43      -152
Other capital dInct, errors and 041ssions)                 -1235       646      2374      4213      1675            2488             709       3SS      200
Changes In reserves                                         -394       152      -256    -5994    -4843             -4040           -2261    -2208    -1431             1
Jnternatlonel reserves                                      2261      2057      2267      8257    13098            138             19399    21607    23068            U'
H.eorn     I tdu
mmordn" ttew ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41713   23.1  23.91 23.8
Exports as X of COP                                       23.71     21.41    24.01    30.4K    26.8X              24KX            23.K      23.9      23.0%
iRperts as X     of GOP                                   39.7X    36.9X    41.11    43.8X    30.31               37.0            36.81    36.7X    39.01
Resource Balance as X of GDP                             *16.01    -17.51   ^17.1X   -13.4X   -11.6o             -12.9X          -134X   -14.91   -15.21-
REAL AoNUAL 4301N1 VATES (198t PRICES)
Perchandise exporte                                         38.01    '12.0      -4.41     20.31    -2.41            -3.51            6.31      1.51      1.01
Primary                                                   46.01     18a.91    -16.41    32.2X    -4.2X             7.0x            3.01    -4.3X    -6.31
MHanufctures                                              2S.31      O.S    17.11       7.8%    -0.41           t15.01           10.81      8.61     9.1X
Merchandise imports                                         14.41     -2.1K      9.81     40.81    14.7X             1.41            3.61      5.21     4.01
1988      1989      19,90     1991      1992
PRICE INDICES (19"7utOO)
Export price Index                                       104.8    105.9    119.5    122.8    117.7                  ..              ..        ..
teport pfice  index                                      108.1     115.6    117.0    117.7    121.2                 ..             ..         .
erea  of trade Index       -                              96.9      91.6     102.1     104.3      97.1
Real Exchange Rate  .,                                   107.8      95.5     106.2    100.8       94.9              ..              ..
Consumer Price Index (Z growth rate)                      21.91     28.51      7.21     25.81      9.31             ..              ..        ..
Reat Interest rates          .                             3.51      3.5S    -6.61      -4.31    -0.51              ..              ..        ..        .
GOP Deflator (1 growth rate)                              16.01     16.71    17.3       22.3X    19.41              ..              ..        ..      .
....Y...............                                                                                             ......................... ......
of Estioated at-factor cost.                                                                                                                        .........
Il includes Iruestment of piltie enterprises..
21 As of FY9Z, exctuding pub*tr enterprlses.
31 FY91 Includes rMcOpitell;otlon of pllilc bonks for fy91.                                                                                 .
January 27, 1994                                                                                                                                                       0
*                                                                                                       *      W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ecyt -- toy Exposure  Indlcatora
............................................................................... ........................................ ............................................................................................... ,.,..,__, ,, __,___
--------- ----------  Actualt          ...... .......       Estl_ted          ----------Projected -.-----.-
1988      1989       1990       199        1992         .   1993              1994      1995    1996
................ ..................................__._. ............__.-.--..............--_.. ^............ .................. ........ _____................_.__..............
Tetat Debt Outatanlno ard Otabureed (TOO) (USSW) a/             46973      5          so 1081    39051      3814?            38451            39165      39887      40222
get Disbursements (WSWm) a/                                       1849      2052       1383        423        42S              340               730       603        334
Total Debt Service (TOS) a/                                       1986      2871       5891       m6         2909             2614              2493      2397       2631
Debt and Debt Service Indlcators (M)
IOJ/XCS b/                                                    405.9°    428.62    398.51    269.5S    234.81               243.3X           239.71    226.71    215.6X
l1DO/GDP                                                       151.61    149.81    144.3X       119.11    107.3X             97.4X            93.5x      93.1 .  88.1X
TDS/XGS b/                                                     17.2%      24.31      34.9X      24.31      17.9X            16.5S             15.2X     t3.6X    14.1
Concesslonat/TDO                                               32.91      31.71      32.31      38.71      38.41            38.5X             38.9X     39.7S      40.3X
i3R0/IFC Exposure Indicators (1)
18RD DS/Public DS                                              18.01      11.71       6.01       7.11      12.21            13.81            14.61      15.51      13.2?
Preferred Creditor J Public DS (inct. IMF)                     25.11      16.51       9.12      18.01      33.2X            22.21             24.3X     30.01      29.2X
I1R8  DS I Exports of GSR                                       2.31       2.2X       2.31       2.31       1.9X             1.9X              1.9X      1.71       1."1
ISKO Portfolio Share (in PPO eKxc. IMf)                         3.7X       3.21       3.41       3.82       4.0X             4.1t             4.2X       4.2?       4.21
IFC (US$m)
towns
Equity and quasi-eqlty c/
HICA Cuarantees (USSm)                                             O    0               0          0          0                 0                0         0:         0
........... ................................ ........................... ......................... ....................... .................................................... .......... ............... ............. ............ ... ... ................
a/ Cash basis. Includes pubtlic and pubtlicty guaranteed debt, private non-guaranteed debt,
use of IMF credits and short-term capital.
b/ XCS a exports of goods and services.
c/ inctudes quasl-equity typea of both toan and equity Instrutents.
c:\JavaedelXegvptXfal tcasj.idl
January 27, 1994
. @-     . .~a
. . . .C



MAPS



a -
, lBRD2528(.
652 .11 NYA                                                         >ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
.Mee MElv.k -                                        OB a C                                                                                           AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Ale nan / dad a1d    El Aeh .\                                                                                            PRINCIPAL AND GOVERNORATE BANKS FOR
T. ] c.m.nhus   ~~<  t                        \ISRAEL                                                      DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL
M  A  R  S  A       M            A  T  R  U  H              X/    Sh alb     \ 0             ,                                        /                                                                   CREDIT
20 ( -                                          B ee-Be -; - < / . \ J J  0                                                          R        D         A     N PRINCIPAL AND GOVERNORATE BANKS FOR
I.                [ .CC~ l           W    aIrO             B * Suez                      \    I                                                   DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT:
\                -- O~~~ATTARA     .-/0 {Hls                                                            
OAITARA                                                                      SINAI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABDACs
(   S .          ~~~~~DFPRESSION                                                                                 S I5i         A se        N A I   \                                                                 DC
SUEZ                                                                                                              @  PBDAC
r  L FAYaU:                    S I N A I  PENINSULA
scan.  El r\L GNrr>FAYOirUnKuDlrWlrPr
<   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~B                                 *GoeRerTorate banial fa doveopmult
a                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and agricultueal credit
ENI .S--U-- E                          .................................... S A U D I                                                   1 Domieot
E L M I N Y A                                                          ARABIA                                                          2 KchrelS1hikh
WESTERN                                                                                                                                                                                  A 4 Beheir
_l M1TA*O                                                                                                                                6 Shorkiya
7 Merouiya
J .......... 8  Ismrlibyrn
DESERT                                         0.,uo                                                                                                                                  9 Qalwlsiya
D E S E R T ~~~~~~~~~~A S  S U I T                                                                          ...... 9 Guio
ASS4UIT  HU,9hnd&¢ .gh.e.0                                                                                                       11 ElFoyawn
An*..1W                EL   BAHR                                                                                                 12 B.nSe
E  L   W  A  D I   E  L   G  E  D  I D                          AWt.Ofg                EL  AHMAR                                                                                                13 El Mny
S O H A G                                                                                                                  I5Soleag
sOnhge                                                                                                                   16 Qena
15                                                                                                                      17 Aswon
C0   bI    IX    150    -x BO165                                                                 2see
Kllom s2fJ  O E N A  rJl                                                                             Cultivaed Areas
MA                                                   OLuC.r .       @                                                                                      Canals
Bnalm                             K,h; m,,                                                                                                                        >'K   Wodis
oBA Ole                                                                                                                                                            ---- Physical FeaunPsu
AOil                                  o                     T                                  0                                                                                              *  Noonal Capital
AAeCCC d       05lC -ArS Cl. BaSB xA   EL SHH                      C POin2 A.A=W APNO                                                                                                                        Gverrnornte Capitals
Fl 5 n n   tArSf BeCe X -                      Sh fDIJ'        .  ,,7e. 0mz                                                                                                                               0  Tcwn and Villages
/   redmmPhur  @  DA2AHLIYA    v  ,/L/                                      ~~~~~~~~~OK.. O.bo  .eteoldi
KM, edmV r<     *G BAoACteSAudarne
\  -   4    GeeScans^O^t  *r m)Anen                                                                                                                                         gE   ccupied Territories
a     3       5
;l Be-Ed  Z, S Zdll             S.ARGIYC
enaa                          , i   n    C0                    6        -
enselnA          , m Eem \0F mF!                       W
8                                                  017
7:   -0 -n 7--"sUh,        ISMAILIA
_s           /               OALIUbrr euruws 
EC     R.                       Ab. S-ebel0
n   Ye,meam                         104    jeSroeAROAunlbl                                                                                                                          *hke nooew n, bnuefee   Ca°5Od IC far *k i,eee.el me.e of Eke WorCld
Ban '3oapThedehaea,;:m*Ce.    ~ld od B-k kC-Cd,l ekosa  so td,-
,eC)                                                                     map do eat lmpdy. on  e are of TAO WadA Bank G,aap. aey iadg",eemmty IfI
E   Kllommem   n   to   oToumh   ,              t                                                                                 z?             *     e t        w      o l; o             f   oS*nosof~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atkleCCfAmaCe' ertoy.~ am.eCeooed m  sapeo,oo
S    U    D    A    N
=   2n                                                     Ce.                                                         CN
hYNEMLE2993



IBRD 25281
Se Inr                                                     I                         _                        ARAB REPUBUC OF EGYPT
/ tc~~~~~~~~fr moro defll.                                                                                                                                                                          O      ,r
0MBa MOE                                                                                                                                          AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Ale uindl                                  SAid   EJ Aih                                                                  REGIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
M,Ai S                                                          SRAEL                                                                    STATIONS
M A RS A  M AT R U H                                                     B   ^mi      
--   --      |//       Shlhin el tsr \ ~Bnha   t    mAllla                              |
.. ;                                         ,  < / \ {                 J 0 R D A N  REGIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION CENTERS:
-ee,@0.u w  ;J' ',    _    * Sue:                \    {                                                           12 SELECTED FOR PROJECT
QATTARA
s EPRESSION                 azA SINA                                                                                                                                              OTHER CENTERS
sW --A-S- -                                                                           SUEZ        SINAI  PENN S UA
Sineh ------                                                        EL FAYOU
NI ,U .:                                                              S A U D I                                  EXTENSION INFORMATION UNITS TO BE
E L    M I N YA                                                                                                        ESTABUSHED UNDER PROJECT
E L   MI NSYA
m                             WESTERN                                                                                                               A   R  A  B   I A                       SAHA RESEARCH STATION  NUBRYA RESEARCH STATION
El WyAG                                                                                       =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tme  Deqe  Woof Nuhee.
El MInveB                                                                           Eltt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  tI~~~~~lBo.4O.
N- V                         El Mlnya *                                                                                                               E biy            SIDS RESEARCH STATION
X                                   NrwVdlwy                                                                                                                                        D^bion                    Dicdd  Sb~~~Neo
DESERT                                        Dei,ufT                                                                                                                Sab.n             EDWolb
A S S U l T                                                                                                            Snrhie.
EL  BAHR                                                                                 G-eId               El Mi  AG.
EL   W  A  D  I  E  L   G  E D  I D                           AbouliV  O            EL  AHMAR                                                                             Dlik  K*Sd               Di^*h   A
9     Sd-    5 0 H A G                                                                                            FZe                      DiMe
to.                                                                        ..-~~j      O                              .en.
2Sleete C,    24    OCC    1  2Y                                       E N A       d5 .                                            28 p                                CAhivhd ,g
MUI                                                 OLr                                                                                         t-a''CorIs
0                    KE  A                                                                                                                       > %Z  Wadis
r   Xi   ,   ,   rmm   *  /  .;  Physicol Feolures~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ni'olFetue
A00S0   O h            (        Db-mi aA i         LT                              l  O                                                                                          *  NcIional Coapft
o0e.2             L nesOL SHEIKH       b                                                        A S W A N                                                                                          Go* esrat Capitols
/  o --/XX    4  5*   aItAn ,9 X .    / \!                                                                                                                 o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.b  To"se ond vilbogf
OeDA                Seree.,     Kr DE                                                                     C S    D-oh  OmDO                                                                       -    G   Tovo c Boundaries
o              Ts, *                                                                                                                                                              ONcu t A-Hn  )  pidTenritories
'N._tamlot                of ZoiO t /mNI
/ hE"EInA ~~~-                                          lee36lle   31- -i
1y-oi   !>    SEi|s   <,^ ?  >   ISMAILIA
OAD-e      -        ->    "      \s
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uuee.. e~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f, h  ~ .                                                           '
0 2!i 'G                             Geed 
00000  TOunen                                                                                                                  r,oo toori boo beer, prepe,ed by Th. AvurId fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nA~~.   orE h.T_e World~=
Z _ KODoep.  The dn.nomWi- cod -.d h. bo-ndo-. ho.-  - hi.
0028'                                                        S        U         D         A         N                                                                     00 SenS fogo 1 a901toftu of amy f n irory or ony oodore.mrot o; neoranoD o-
NoVMMu s%



