Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ls~J ii.    (12/  Report No. 12513-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTuRAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12513 EGT
Type: SAR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
T'his document has a restricted distnrtion and may be used by redpients only in the peifonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be declosed without Wodd Bank authoizsaon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of June 1993)
US$1.00    3.33 Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE 1:00 - US$ 0.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ERgptian and_or Metric Unit                      English/US Unit
1 feddan (fed)                                   0.420 hectares, 1.037 acres
1 hectare (ha)                       =           2.470 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARRI        3     Agricultural Engineering Research 'nstitute
ARC         =     Agricultural Research Center
APCP        =     Aqricultural Production and Credit Project
BDAC        =     Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
EAA         =     Egyj 4.an Environmental Affairs Agency
EIDU        =     Exte..sion Information and Demonstration Unit
ERSAP       -     Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
FNRI        -     Food and Nutrition Research Institute
GARPAD      =     General Authority for Rehabilitation Projects and
Agricultural Development
GOB         =     Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
IBRD        =     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Ice         3     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
MALR        =     Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MPWWR             Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
NA"RP             National Agricultural Research Project
O&M               o Operation and Maintenance
PB          =     Participating Bank
PBDAC       =     Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PMD         -     Project Management Department
RRES        =     Regional Research and txtension Station
SAL         -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SDI         -     Subsidy Dependence Index
SFPP        =     Small Farmer Production Project
SMS               Subject Matter Specialist
TTS         -     Technology Transfer Specialist
USAID       =     United States Agency for International Development
VEW         -     Village Extension Worker
WFP         =     World Food Programme
WRC               Water Research Center
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OP EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
t..l 1 I . IMA 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICMLTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter
Page No.
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUUMARY                  ....................... i-iii
r.     THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.  Agriculture in the Economy ......................................                 1
B. Recent Reforms                              ....          .... 2
C.  Rural Poverty and Women Farmers ...............................        .         3
D. Agricultural Institutions and Services                             .... 3
E.  Bank Group Participation in Agriculture and Lessons Learned .....  7
F.  Future Direction of Agricultural Development                    . .       ..   8
II.    FINANCIAL SECTOR AND RURAL BANKING .................................  9
A.  Overview .......................................................   9
B.  Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit .........  13
C.  Lending Operations .............................................  16
III.  THE PROJECT ........................................................  22
A. Background                                 .....  22
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement                         .....  22
C. Project Concept                               .....  23
D.  Project Objectives    .          ................................... . .    .   24
E. Project Description                              .....  24
F. Detailed Project Features                           .....  25
G. Project Cost and Financing Plan                         ... ..  30
(a) Cost Estimates    .               .... . ......... . 30
(b) Financing Plan .............                                   ..   32
S.  Procurement ............................................... . .     .           33
I.  Disbursement .................................................. .               35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in Jue 1993 consisting of K.S.
Venkatraman, Sr. Operations Officer, Mission Leader, Rahut Raturi, Sr. Finacmiat Analyst, Ortando
Sacay, Rural Credit Specialist, Mohamed Ulsman, Economist, Consultant, Joginder Bakshi,
Agricutturalist, Consultant, K. Selvavinaysafm, Rurat Credit Specialist, Consultant, Barry Axtell,
Food Technology and Agro-industry Specialist, Consultant, T.K. Salakrishnan, Financial Analyst,
C,nsultant, and Ashley C. Morton, Envirormental st, Consultant.  Peer reviewers for the report
xcluded the following Staff: Messrs/Mme. Salop, Yaron, and Nyberg; the report was typed by Ns.
conchita Castillo, while the Internal consistencry and conforamity of the report with the Bank's
operational policy was checked by Mr. Sant Khorana. This report was prepared under the overall
supervision of Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Chief CMN2AG), and approved by Mr. Ram K. Chopra, Director
(MN2) and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, Vice President, Middle East and North Africa Region.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                                  Page No.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION- . ...   ....... ..... ... .#..... . 37
A.  PBDAC as Project Implementing Institution                .    .     37
B.  Project Implementation Arrangements                    .     .      38
C. Loan Recovery                   ....................................   ... ......  41
D.  Strengthening PBDAC's Organization* * ..        .....     ..... 41
E. Accounts and Audits  . .            ..   .. ............ .  .... . 44
F. Environmental Impact.............. ....... .. ........ ,...  44
G.  Project Launching, Monitoring, -Evaluation and Reporting ........  45
H.  Project Benefits and Risks ..........      ..      ..    ..    .... 46
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMCIATIONSS.............................  49
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1:  Outstanding Loans, Arrears and Provi sion.    ...........8
3.1:  Project Cost Summary       ..       ............................32
3.2:  Financing Planlan..... *.0 ...... O.. 32
3.3:  Procurement Arrangements. ...e.m...    .................          33
3.4:  Disbursement Plan ..................................... .... . . .  36
3.5:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IBRD Loan and IDA Credit..  36
1.    Agricultural Sector Developments....................   52
2.    Rural Finance:
Part A - The Rural Financial System                                     73
Part B - Business Plan of PBDAC and Financial Projections    85
Part C - Subsidy Dependence Index of P         8DAC    106
3.    Environmental Aspects ...................                              121
4.    Training Components m        p     o     n     e     n     ts.....     126
5.    Project Cost Summary ........................  .*. ....... ....     129
6.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                      133
7.    Economic and Financial Benefits and Sensitivity Analysis .134
8.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities...                          151
9.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment.......               153
10.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File .................. 159
CHARTS
1.    Organization Chart - Rural Banking and Technical Services
Under the Project ............................  160
2.    Project Implementation Schedule for Selected Components ...........  161
GRAPHS
1.    PBDAC Subsidy Dependence Index (FY90-97) .......................... 20 & 108
2.    Components of Subsidy (FY90-97)   .      ..................... .......  108
MAPS
IBRD Nos. 25280 and 25281:    Arab Republic of Egypt
Agricultural Modernization Project



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYP
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan/Credit and Project Summar'
Borrower                5    For IBRD Loan: The Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC); for IDA Credits
The Arab Republic of Egypt
Guarantor               :    The Arab Republic of Egypt
Imolementins Agencv     s    Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit (PBDAC)
Beneficiaries           :    Farmers, agro-based enterprises, agro-processors,
machinery dealers; PBDAC, other participating
banks, and Ministry of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation (MALR)
L,an/Credit Amount      s    IBRD Loan: US$54.0 million equivalent
IDA Credit: SDR 48.7 million (US$67.0 million
equivalent).
Terms                   :    IBRD Loans 20 years including 5 years of grace,
standard variable interest rate;
IDA Credit: standard, for 35 years including 10
years of grace.
on-lendini Terms        s     (i) The amount of US$100.0 million  (US$54.0
million of IBRD loan and US$46.0 million
equivalent out of the IDA credit) for on-lending
would be made available to PBDAC as the "apex"
institution on standard IBRD terms; a guarantee
fee of 0.125 per cent would be payable to the
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt (GOE);
while PBDAC would bear the foreign exchange risk,
it would cover this risk under an existing
facility with the Ministry of Finance against
payment of a three per cent fee which will be
reviewed at mid-term and adjusted periodically
thereafter to reflect market conditions. (ii) The
amount of US$21.0 million for institutional
development would be provided on IDA terms to the
PBDAC and on grant terms to MALR. (iii) PBrAC
would on-lend funds to participating banks at
cost (i.e., interest, plus foreign exchange risk
premium, plus 0.5 per cent to cover its costs for
apex banking functions). (iv) Sub-loans to
borrowers would be at prevailing market rates of
interest.
Proiect Objectives            The project's objectives are to  (Li) increase
agricultural    productivity    by    promoting
appropriate technological packages; (ii) increase
rural income by financing investments in custom-
service operations and in small- and medium-scale



- ii -
agro-based enterprises; (iiL) streamline PBDAC's
orqanization   and    strengthen    it3    staff
capabilities to perform as an effective rural
financial    institution;    (iv)    facilitate
participation of commercial banks in financing
rural investments by providing access to long-
term financing, staff training, and dissemination
of relevant data on investment; and (v) improve
capabilities   and  coordination  of  relevant
agricultural services at the farm level.
Prolect Description      :    Provide financing of:  (i) On-farm technoloav
oackaaes, including credit to support selective
mechani zation to upgrade farming operations and
resource   use   efficiency;   (ii)   acro-based
enterprises, including credit for small- and
medium-scale enterprises such as custom hire
services for farming operations, warehousing,
processing and marketing services; and (iii)
institutional development: (a) in rural bankina:
assisting PBDAC and participating banks to
strengthen their rural banking operations in
deposit  mobilization,   rural  investment  and
upgrading of staff skills through training; and
(b) in acricultural services: assisting relevant
agencies of the MALR to disseminate improved
production and processing technology, to provide
market   information  to  producers,  and  to
facilitate better coordination between credit,
research, -xtension, processing and marketing
services.
Benefits                 s    The project would benefit: (i) about 240,000 farm
households to increase incomes through adoption
of  improved  technology;  (ii)  investors  to
establish small- and medium-scale agro-based
enterprises   in   input/output   storage   and
marketing, custom-hire services, and processing
of primary crop and dairy products; (iii) PBDAC
and other participating banks to strengthen their
capabilities in rural banking services; and (iv)
extension and technology transfer services to
coordinate their activities with credit services
and to design extension messages according to
emerging needs of the farming community.
Risks                    s    The project faces three significant risks: (i)
Slackening   of  macroeconomic   reform   would
discourage investors; effective implementation of
private sector development and public sector
reform aspects of the Economic Reform and
Structural Adjustment Program is critical to
project's success.   (ii) Delays may occur in
PBDAC's implementation of its staff redeployment
program. The project provides for retraining to
enable displaced employees to be redeployed t.o
other activities.   (iii) The participation of



- iii -
commercial banks in rural credit operation may
occur slowly. Provision of technical assistance
and training under the project would help reduce
this risk.
Project Component and Estimated Costs
Project Components             Local       Foreigmn     Tota
---------(US$ million)--------
Farm Technology Improvement     48.7         53.4       102.1
Agro-based Enterprises          51.0         34.0        85.0
Institutional Development       43.7         12.6        56.3
Total Baseline Costs           143.4        100.0       243.4
Physical Contingencies           0.3          0.2         0.5
Price Contingencies             11.4         13.5        24.9
_______________________________
TOTAL                           155.1        113.6       268.3
Financin2 Plan:                          Local       Foreinm      Total
---------(US$ million)--------
IBRD Loan                         -           54.0        54.0
IDA Credit                       7.4          59.6        67.0
Government/PBDAC                89.0            -         89.0
Investors                       58.8            -         58.8
TOTAL                          155.2         113.6       268.8
Estimated Annual Disbursements:
Bank Group Fiscal Year
-----------------_--------------------------------
FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY2000 FY2001
-------------------(US$Million)------------------
Bank/IDA              0.0  13.3  13.9  16.4  19.1  18.8  19.3  20.2
Cumulative            0.0  13.3  27.2  43.6  62.7  81.5  100.8  121.0
Economic Rate of Return:    Estimated at 38 per cent.
Environmental Ratin2:         "B"
Poverty Cateuory:            NA



MAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL ..OIRNIZATION PRO3EC
ST&?F APPRAISAL REPORT
r. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR1/
A. agriculture in the Economy
1.01        Agriculture has remained a dominant sector in the Egyptian economy.
It employs about 35 per cent of the labor force and accounts for about 20 per
cent of GDP and merchandise exports. The agricultural land base is 7.5 million
feddans and the agricultural labor force is estimated at 4.4 million. With only
three per cent of the land area being arable, holdings average less than 0.8 ha.
Limitations of water and arable land are the two major resource constraints
afftcting Egyptian agriculture. The completion of the High Aswan Dam resulted
in ensuring regulated water supply for intensive agriculture. With irrigation
ard abundant fertile soils, year round sunshine, and a skilled libor force, Egypt
has achieved a cropping intensity approaching 200 per cent and impressive yield
levels in cereal and horticultural crops. Yet, given its idea' agro-climatic
conditions and the millennia of farming tradition, Egypt has the potential to
attain significant growth in agricultural output and income by widespread
adoption of technology and credit services suitable to small-farmers and
introduction of post-harvest technology and marketing services in a liberalized
economic environment.
1.02        The Egyptian farming system is extremely intensive. Land preparation
is almost totally tractorized and irrigation is also largely mechanized. Demand
for labor is not evenly sipread over the year and there are peak periods (i.e.,
May to July and September-October) wb.en there is acute labor shortage. This
results in late planting, insufficient crop care (such as weeding), or neglect
of me3.ntenance of infrastructure. Labor shortages are particularly acute in the
recla.med lands, which ccnstitute abcut 20 per cent of agricultural land area.
Settlers in the new lands have only limited family labor available and wages are
almost 40 per cent higher than in the Delta. Attempts to increase mechanization
support in the new lands have been retarded by the lack of private machinery
hiring services and inade-quate extension, credit and marketing services.
1.03        Successive land reforms since 1952 have reshaped the organization of
agriculture.   The earlier system of feudal ownership was replaced by the
establishment of cooperatives and State-organized distribution of inputs and
outputs. At the technical. level, these new arrangements, together with provision
of subsidized credit, promoted the use of modern inputs: mechanized land
preparation replaced animal traction, a three-year crop rotation was adopted, and
the cropping systems were consolidated to facilitate mechanization of operations.
The Government invested heavily in expanding irrigation and drainage
infrastructure and in the reclamation of desert lands. However, with rapidly
increasing population, the dependence on food imports increased and growth in
agricultural GDP remained at, or stayed slightly ahead of, the rate of population
growth.
1/    For futler discussion of the subject, see Armex 1.



- 2-
1.04        Inappropriate macroeconomic and trade policies in the past have been
the major self-imposed constraints to agrtcultural growth. The weak performance
of the sector is largely due to: (i) heavy Government intervention in production,
pricing and marketing of major crops and inputs, and (ii) large concentration of
public investments in new land reclamation, instead of intensifying production
in already reclaimed lands. Furthermore, an overvalued and multiple exchange
rate regime, state monopolies, restrictive trade practices, rigid central
planning, and distorted incentives had an adverse effect on both factor and
product markets and the investment climate.   By the end of the 1980s, a
determined effort to reverse this trend became an economic Imperative.
B. Recent Reforms
1.05        At the macroeconomic level, a comprehensive Economic Refoxm and
Structural Adjustment Program (ERSAP) was adopted in 1991 to, inter alia, (a)
reduce the role of the State in the creation and operation of productive assets
and thus strengthen the market-based economic oystem; jb) improve the regulatory
environment for the private sector by increasing competition and by putting
private and public companies on an eqt'al footing; and (c) correct extreme
distortions in the price structure and incentive system through the
liberalization of pricing, trade, and foreign exchange policies. Introduction
of these reforms has resulted in: the unification of exchange rates and adoption
of a competitive rate for the Egyptian pound; liberalization of interest rates;
rationalization of import tariffs and adoption of a program for removal of import
bans; adoption of a phased program of subsidy removal; and enactment of revenuie
measures to reduce fiscal deficits. These liberalization measures have improved
the climate for private investment and trade.
1.06        At the sectoral level,  the Ministry of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation (MALR) pioneered a bold reform program .n 1986. The main measures
implemented since then ares (a) removal of crop area allotments and delivery
quotas for all major crops, except cotton and sugarcane; (b) liberalization of
agricultural producer prices for all products, except cotton and sugarcane
[cotton price at farmgate has been increased to 66 per cent of international
prices as required under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (Ln. 3353-EGT)3;
(c) removal of feed subsidies and fertilizer subsidies, and substantial reduction
in subsidies for pesticides; (d) removal of restrictions on movement and milling
of rice by the private sector; (e) increase in interest rates to move them to
commercial banking levels; (f) sale of reclaimed state-owned land to the private
sector; (g) offer to sell 83 state-owned investments of which 18 have been sold;
(h) promotion of private sector role in input trading, mainly fertilizers, which
has resulted in some 3,000 traders handling over 90 per cent of fertilizer
distribution; and (i) raising land rents three-fold during a five-year
transitional period aft(-r which they would be liberalized and become market
determined and owners wous.. be able to protect their ownership rights over land.
Preliminary indications are that these reforms, combined with specific crop
intensification programs, have had a favorable impact on improving the cropping
pattern and yield levels.   These achievements, when consolidated through
institutional strengthening and use of improved technologies, would go far in
raising agricultural growth and reducing rural poverty.
1.07        Growth in agriculture and post-harvest processing and marketing
activities depends critically on two factors: (1) use of technology which would
enhance productivity of existing agricultural resources, and (ii) use of medium-
and long-term credit effectively in an economic climate which is supportive of



investment  in  rural  areas.   Wh.  J * Egypt  is well-endowed with  research
institutions and highly-qualified scientists and researchers, weaknesses in
coordination and overlapping responsibil.-es among different institutions leave
critical gaps in the system.  Th3 priva.;e sector, which has been reluctant to
invest in the rural sector, can contribute signiflcantly to "value added"
activities and help diversify the rural economy through direct investment to
provide custom hire services and farm-related processing activities. Technology
transfer and provision of credit are, therefore, vitally important to stimulate
investments in rural Egypt.
1.08        Water availabillty is a major limiting factor for agricultural
expansion in Egypt. Therefore, improved effLcLency in on-farm water usage is a
major strategic objective. A system is in p'lice to recover capital costs of
newly installed drainage facilities and to sha.  operation and maintonance (OM)
costs of irrigation and drainage in newly recluimzd lands. The Government has
initiated studies to improve recovery of 0rM costs of irrigation in the Old Lands
(i.e, established agricultural lands in the Nile Valley and Nile Delta) and the
Bank is in dialogue with the relevant Ministrisi to develop an appropriate
strategy and operational program for this purpose.
C. Rural Poverty and Women Farmers
1.09        Poverty in -rural Egypt is linked closely to agriculture.  The rural
population constitutes about 54 per cent of Egyptls total population. Farmers
and farm laborers account for a large proportion of the rural poor. Despite the
overall increase in equality due to successive land reforms, the poorest 20 per
cent of landowners hold only 5 per cent of agricultural land. Stagnation in the
rural economy and lack of employment opportunities have accelerated migration,
predominantly of adult male labor, to urban areas and overseas to other Gulf
states.
1.10        Close to 47 per cent of the active female population is engaged in
agricultural work. Among the poor, rural women and the landless are particularly
disadvantaged. Women participate actively in various facets of agricultural
activities, and particularly in livestock operations. Besides illiteracy, lack
of access to services, such as credit and extension, are among the constraints
faced by women farmers. The income levels of the rural poor, and particularly
women, can be increased with the provision of improved technology support and
training.   Easier access to credit would enable them to undertake income-
generating activities, such as small agro-based enterprises for processing,
production of artisanal items, marketing, etc. Although MALR has established a
position of an Adviser to the Minister on women's issues, institutional support
to encourage these activities has to be further strengthened to achieve tangible
results.
D. AUrioultural Institutipas and Services
1.11        Institutions under the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources
(MPWWR) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) are directly
relevant to agricultural performance. Because Egyptian agriculture is almost
entirely irrigated, close coordination between the two Ministries at various
levels assumes significance. Under existing organizational arrangements, MPWWR
is the custodian of the country's water resources and i3 responsible for
construction, operation and maintenance of about 31,000 km of public irrigation
canals, about 17,000 km of drainage canals, and the associated barrages,



- 4 -
structures, and pumping stations. Under its new mandate, the role of MALR in
evolving into one of providing services, such as, research and extension,
regulation of standards for farm inputs and outputs, and formulation of sectoral
policy. MALR has jurisdiction over the apex agricultural credlt institution,
viz. the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), and
agricultural cooperatives.   Chapter rI provides an overview of the credit
institutions in the agricultural sector and the dominant role played by PBDAC in
rural banking.
1.12        Acricultural research is the responsibility of MALR's Agricultural
Research Center (ARC) which is mandated to generate and transfer, in
collaboration with extensiLn services, technological improvements to farmers.
The ARC operates th:ough multi-discipl$nary research teams to conduct on-farm
research and re-orients adaptive research to fit the needs and constrai:xts of
actual farms.   It has 17 researc.h institutes,  including the two recently
established institutes for genetic research and computer-ba.ed expert systems.
A majority of the institutes are crop-based. There are six central laboratories
supervised by the ARC; and there are ten Regional Research and Extension Stations
(RRES) operated by the ARC; of these, seven are now capable of adapting
technologies to the agro-climatic conditions of their respective zones.  The
RRESs are designed to promote closer linkage between research and extension
services. Coordinating boards responsible for release of new technology have
been created. Within the ARC, the following four institutes will have direct
linkage with the project: The Agricultural Engineering Research Institute (AERI)
is responsible for development and adaptation of new mechanization technologies
for farming and, to a limited extent, for on-farm irrigation improvement, and
agrn-processing. The Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI) of the ARC
deals with applied research and development of products and processes. The Soil
and Water Research Institute (SWRI) deals with study of physical and chemical
properties of soils, plant nutrition, irrigati- - agronomy, and drainage.  It has
developed  research  results  relevant  to  on-farm  water  management.    The
Agricultural Economics Research Institute produces data on supply, demand, prices
and costs of production of various crops and strengthening the activities of the
institute will assist the extension service and, in turn, farmers to have access
to market intelligence. The total staff of the ARC is about 30,000, including
about 1,800 high-level researchers. Research related to irrigation and drainage
systems is the main responsibility of the MPWWR's Water Research Center (WRC) and
its 11 affiliated institutes. The research institutions of both MPWWR and MALR
have contributed significantly to yield improvement. The United States Agency
for international Development (USAID) has provided substantial support to these
institutions.
1.13        By targeting efforts on particular crops and solutions for specific
problems, agricultural research and technology transfer programs have generated
significant yield increases in wheat, rice, corn and bean production. However,
it is necessary to critically examine the environmental, economic and financial
viabilities of new technologies before they are recommended for propagation.
Removal of input subsidies has impacted on production costs and there is
increasing concern regarding the effect of chemical inputs on the envircnments
this calls for the ARC to develop more precise recommendations for various soil
conditions in different sub-regions, keeping in view target yields to be achieved
as well as costs and returns. With improved coordination among the research
institutions, universities, credit channels, and the private sector, and with
close two-way communication between farmers and researchers through the extension
system, the benefits of research could be further enhanced.



1.14        Research activities have not adequately addressed the development of
suitable technologies for different categories of farmers in the newly reclaimed
lands.   Large land holders have been able to mobilize the needed technical
support throu';n private sources. The Desert Research Center, which has been
brought under the ARC umbrella recently, has begun to address the issue relating
to small farmersl it is too soon to assess the impact of these efforts.
1.15        The  extension  service  is  under  the  direction  of  a  First
Undersecretary of MAL., with a counterpart in each of the Governorates. While
the extension needs of the Old Lands are handled by this init, there is orly
limited service provided for New Lands by the General Authority for
Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultural Development (GARPAD) which is the public
agency responsible for land reclamation.   Until the mid-80s, the extension
service was engaged in both regulatory and technology transfer functionst this
was discarded when the sank-financed Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln.
2561-EGT) was launched. Since then, there have been several attempts made under
various projects to reorganize the system and forge stronger links between
research, extension and training, but the service still remains fragmented.
While the real capacity to generate and transfer useful farm technology is being
developed, disseminati3n of the new technology remains limited to pilot programs.
1.16        The Village Extension Worker (VEW) forms the direct link with the
farmer. The Government's program calls for one extension worker per village,
supported by one block assistant for every 200 feddans.   Prima facie, this
appears to be an ambitious target, given the fact that the number of well-trained
extensionists and block assistants falls short of the requirement. A sustainable
system of extension would be one with a smaller cadre of well-qualified
technicians, alert to the farmers, needs and capable of responding to their
problems. Experience gained under USAID-supported projects (viz. the Small
Farmer Production Project (SFPP) and the Agricultural Production and Credit
Project (APCP)3, which were executed by the PBDAC has demonstrated that a Farm
Management Team composed of the VEW, the village bank manager, and the
representatives of the local farming community is effective in disseminating new
technology and raising productivity.
1.17        Until recently, small- and medium-scale rural activities in agro-
Drocessina and marketina remained unattractive mainly on account of controls on
movement of raw materials and trading margins, consumer subsidies, and the
domination of State-owned processing and distribution operations.   Public
enterprises account for the bulk of agro-industries, dominating production as
well as distribution. The Government has noted that centrally administered
bureaucracies which operate these public enterprises are ill-suited to respond
to varied and quickly-changing market requirements. Consequently, it has placed
special emphasis on divestiture of these activities. Elimination of controls on
trading and phasing out of subsidies have already led to vigorous growth of
private tradlng in seeds, feed and fertilizers. However, privatization of public
enterprises which are engaged in the production of farm inputs and pro(:essing of
agricultural commodities has just begun. Greater momentum in the privatization
of these enterprises would change the existing arrangements for both processing
and marketing and new opportunities for private investment, particularly in the
small- to medium-scale range, would emerge in the rural sector. The project
would support growth of such private enterprises through the provision of term
credit.
1.18        With respect to inut, most of the fertilizers (except potassium
fertilizers, which are imported) are produced locally. Until recently, provision



of subsidies resulted in over-use of fertilizers as the principal means of
increasing production. Furthermore, application of fertilizers as flakes and
inefficient methods of fertilizer broadcasting after seedbed preparation led to
wasteful use of the input. With the liberalization of trading in fertilizer and
removal of fertilizer subsidies, demand has shrunk somewhat, and export of
fertilizer has increased. Also, there is a shift in the local market towards use
of better formulated and compound fertilizers. Appropriate formulations and
pricing of different types of fertilizers would encourage mechanized placement
of fertilizers (which would save at least ten per cent of fertilizer) and use of
fertigation where feasible.
1.19        Pesticides are used largely in cotton and, to a limited extent, in
other crops. Pesticides for field crops have benefited from heavy subsidies in
the past; these have been phased out since June 1993, and there are private
distributors for nesticides. Pesticide imports, previously handled by the PBDAC,
have been left to licensed public and private chemical companies. With the
reduction in subsidies and rising cost of pesticides, their use has declined
drastically. (Pesticide imports, which were over 30,000 tons per year in the
early 1980s have dropped sharply to 9,500 tons per year.) In collaboration with
the German technical assistance agency, the GTZ, effective Integrated Pest
MIanagement (IPM) techniques have been developed by the Plant Protection Research
Institute for cotton and some other crops.  However, enforcement of quality
control by the Central Pesticide Laboratory needs to be strengthened with
additional equipment and trained staff. Also, training of dealers and farmers
at the village level to promote safe handling and application of chemicals
deserves greater attention from Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs).
1.20      With respect to seeds, there is a well organized program of production
of breeder and foundation seed. The Central Administration for Seed (CAS) in
MALR is responsible for multiplication, conditioning and distribution of seed,
as well as for quality control. Several seed processing facilities have been
modernized and are being offered for sale to private investors. As a policy
objective, the Government has given encouragement to the private seed irdustry.
There is greater availability of breeder seeds and private seed multiplication
has increased significantly primarily for cross-fertilized crops; these
activities need to be extended to self-pollinated crops. As in the case of
fertilizers, use of precision planters and seed drills would result in reducing
seed requirements by at least ten per cent, while improving yields.
1.21        Egyptian  agriculture,  which  has  effectively  achieved  total
tractorization, has significantly reduced drudgery in farming, improved the
quality of life on the farm and has succeeded in increasing yields. Primary farm
mechanization is already well established for land preparation, threshing, water
lifting and transport. The number of tractors was estimated at 40,000 in 1992.
Selective secondary mechanization of activities to reduce the turnaround time
between crops and more effective use of irrigation water, seed, fertilizer and
pesticide are now being factored into the farm technology package. Custom hire
services are provided mostly by private operators or contractors hiring out their
equipment and services. There are some mechanized services offered by public
sector companies, but their activities are being phased out as the useful life
of their equipment fleet diminishes. These activities will eventually be taken
over by private entrepreneurs or cooperatives.  Given the strong demand for
mechanized services in newly-reclaimed lands, investments in custom hire services
are expected to receive priority attention in the reclaimed areas.



1.22        The cooperative movement in Egypt has become widespread, largely
through government patronage.   However, with the exception of a few, the
performance of most agricultural cooperatives has been modest. With about three
million members, there are almost 6,500 cooperatives in the sector, but the
volume of their business has been declining. Cooperatives are in three main
categories: (i) agrarian reform cooperatives covering lands broken up into small
holdings since 1952; (ii) the New Lands cooperatives covering lands which have
been reclaimed with irrigation and distributed to settlers; and (iLL) Old Lands
cooperatives.   In addition, there are specialized cooperatives dealing with
specific products or activities, e.g., fruits and vegetables, potato, livestock,
mechanized farming, etc. The major part of revenues of these cooperatives comes
from marketing of crops, primarily cotton and rice.   The overall financial
position of the cooperatives is weak, because of the Government's past policy of
administered prices.   The new liberalized policy environment should help
rejuvenate the cooperative movement, provided the weak units are restructured,
consolidated, financed, and managed as business ventures.
1.23          Past practices, such as unrestrained use of water and chemical
inputs, have led to a deterioration of the environment, affecting the resource
base of the agricultural sector. Issues relating to environmental protection
have  engaged  the  Government's  attention  in  recent  years.    A  National
Environmental  Action Plan was  published  in  1992,  and  a unified  law on
environmental protection has been enacted.  The law provides for environmental
impact assessments and mechanisms for prescribing and enforcing the
implementation of environmental mitigation plans.  To this end, it envisages
strengthening the central authority and establishing trained bodies at local
levels. MALR is seized of the environmental Issues affecting the sector and has
established an environmental unit. However, the agricultural engineers who staff
this unit are in need of training in environmental assessment and audit. The
project makes a modest provision for environmental training and it is anticipated
that external donors would support a broader training program to achieve adequate
capacity in environmental management.
B. Bank ¢roup Participation in Aariaulture and Lessons Learned
1.24        The Bank Group's agricultural portfolio in Egypt accounts for about
22 per cent of current Bank Group lending. The seven projects under execution
in the sector represent a total lending of US$362.5 million equivalent, net of
cancellations. The portfolio includes four projects in irrigation and drainage
and three in agricultural development, agricultural storage, and natural resource
management.   The Bank also serves as the executing agency for an ongoing
agricultural project financed by IFAD.
1.25        Most of the Bank Group lending in the sector htas been directed at
alleviating the physical constraints to production.   Among these, projects
relating to drainage, rehabilitation of irrigation pumping stations, and channel
maintenance have contributed to improving the reliability of irrigation and
relieving problems of high water table and soil salinity.   The Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) for recently completed projects, such as the
Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 2270-EGT) and the New
Lands Development Project (Cr. 1083-EGT), have commented favorably on the results
achieved. As already noted, the Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln.
2561-EGT), which is expected to close by March 1994, has facilitated introduction
of custom-hire services in the agricultural sector. The Agricultural storage
Project (Ln. 3071-EGT) has been downsized in view of the divestment of trading



activities by the public sector. Other major donors in the sector have supported
projects for improving irrigation, agricultural research, agricultural credit and
improved farming practices. These projects have contributed significantly to
enhance Egypt's ability to achieve and sustain high levels of farm production.
1.26        Implementation delays of three years are common in almost all
projects in Egypt's agricultural sector. Some of these delays are attributable
to unrealistic implementation schedules, while others are due to weak performance
by project entities. The Bank Group's experience with projects in the sector
indicates that: (i) the most effecti-ve projects should be simple and preferably
involve only one implementing ministry; (ii) project implementation planning
should take into account factors that usually cause delays, e.g., procurement
procedures, staff shortages, inadequate budgetary allocations, etc.; (iii) the
Government, besides the beneficiaries, should be fully committed to the project;
and (Lv) the management capabilities of the agencies responsible for project
implementation should be strengthened at early stages of project implementation.
1.27        Institutional strengthening is a critical  factor in improving
efficiency in project implementation in the sector. Among the agencies in the
MALR, the PBDAC, which is the implementing agency for the project, is one of the
better performers. Consequently, a substantial portion of donor assistance is
channeled through that agency. Through its assistance programs, the USAID has
been active in promoting and sustaining policy reforms in the agriculture sector;
in that process, it has been providing technical assistance to PBDAC to train its
staff, improve its management information system, and carry out necessary studies
for divestment of its non-banking activities.
P.  Future Direction of AUrioultural DeveloDment
1.28        With  the  policy  reforms  already  in  place  and  proposed  for
implementation, Egypt is well-positioned to maximize the return from it. limited
resource bass. Recently, the MALR, together with the Bank, the FAO, the WFP, the
UNDP and the UNEP, has formulated an Agricultural Strategy for the 1990s (Report
Nlo. 11083-EGT). In accordance with the agreed recommendations of the report, the
Government is accelerating its privatization program in the sector. It would
streamline key institutions, such as the PBDAC and research and extension
organizations. The Government would pay particular attention, inter alia, to (i)
conserve Egypt's limited water resources and improve on-farm water use
efficiency, (ii) modernize the farming practices, and (iii) intensify
agricultural production in the reclaimed lands by promoting adequate support
services  in  these  areas.    Consequently,  investment  in modernization  of
irrigation, land levelling, careful choice of water-efficient cropping and proper
planting practices assume particular significance for the future. The strategy
indicates that an increase in rural income and employment cannot come from
primary agricultural activities alone and that, therefore, appropriate expansion
of agro-based enterprises should receive priority attention. The strategy notes
that the drive for efficiency and diversification of the rural economy would help
address rural poverty as well as the creation of employment opportunities for
rural women. Implementation of such a strategy requires not merely the provision
of finance, but equally importantly the coordination of rural services, both from
governmental and private scurces. The project fits into this overall strategy.



- 9-
II. * I NCIAIL SECTOR AND RUA  BANKING
A. Overview
Financial Sector
2.01        Egypt's financial sector is in the midst of a reform program targeted
at developing a competitive, market-based system. Until the late 1980s, the
development of the financial aector in Egypt was constrained by the imposition
of interest rate and credit controls. The Government played a key role in the
allocation of resources through a subsidized credit system under which low
interest loans were provided to priority sectors. The financial system comprised
mainly the banking sector, dominated by four Government-owned banks, which
accounted for over 90 per cent of the total assets of commercial banks.
Specialized banks for agriculture, industry, housing and export development
provide medium- and long term financing to the respective sectors. About 50 per
cent of the branches of the four public sector banks are located in the four
largest cities - Cairo, Alexandria, Giza and Port Said.
2.02        With the initiation of treasury bills since 1991, a formal and
rapidly expanding money market has come into operation. There are, however, no
long-term treasury bonds and a secondary market in long-term debt instruments is
virtually non-existent.   The capital market remains underdeveloped.   The
securities market, which was the pre-eminent source of funds for business in the
late 1950s, prior to the nationalization of the Egyptian economy, is an
insignificant source of capital for business and government today. This market
has accounted for less than five per cent, on average,   of the new capital
provided to the private and public sectors combined.
2.03        The Reform Proaram.  In the late 1980s, the Government implemented
the first in a series of reforms to improve the efficiency of the financial
sector.   Interest rates and exchange rates were liberalized.   Additional
financial reform measures undertaken included: (i) revision of outstanding ratios
for reserve and liquidity requirements; (ii) implementation of capital adequacy
standards; (iii) introduction of asset classification and provisioning in
accordance with internationally accepted standards; (iv) implementation of
foreign currency exposure ratios; (v) establishment of a deposit insurance
scheme; and (vi) recapitalization of public sector banks. These measures were
complemented by a program to strengthen the Central Bank of Egypt's (CBE)
supervisory capabilities. The World Bank also completed a wide-ranging review
of the financial sector of Egypt in 1991 and, in support of the Government's
economic reform program, produced a report on "Financial Policy for Adjustment
and Growth" (Report No. 10790-SGT).
2.04        These reforms have had a substantial impact on the financial system.
The deregulation of interest rates has resulted in an increase in deposit and
lending rates. The double liberalization of interest and exchange rates and the
growth of confidence in the reformed macro-economic policies of the Government
appear to have induced both a repatriation of capital and a conversion of US
dollar deposits into Egyptian pound deposits by both the household and corporate
sectors. In conjunction with the application of credit ceilings, the partial
reversal of dollarization of the economy has increased the liquidity position of
banks. The favorable impact of these reforms is expected to be felt as the
efficiency of financial intermediation improves further and the distortions are
removed.



- 10 -
2.05        In early 1991, the Government made up the losses suffered by the
commercial banks through the issue to them of bonds denominated in US dollars for
a total amount of US$2,090 million (LE 6,900 million). Of this amount LE 3,015
million was used to cover foreign exchange losses, and the remaining LE 3,075
million was used as capital injection.  In addition, the CBE has issued new
regulations setting up new standards of capital adequacy, asset classification
and provisioning, and limits on foreign currency exposure.
2.06        Future Priorities.  The Government recognizes that the main source
of new investment will come from the private sector. Its reform program is,
therefore, designed to improve the incentive structure and to modernize economic
regulations; reforms in the financial sector are geared to the same end. The
Government's priority now is tot (a) strengthen the existing institutional
infrastructure for the financial sector, such as, the legal framework, prudential
control and supervision; (b) deepen the money markets to develop a reliable
reference rate and promote the development of variable rate instruments; (c)
{nsure that commercial banks and agricultural bank (PBDAC) develop into efficient
and financially autonomous institutions; and (d) promote markets for long-term
funds.
Credit Availability for Agriculture
2.07        Formal Credit.  The relative importance of formal credit is much
lower in agriculture than for the overall economy; in 1992, while agriculture
contributed 20 per cent of total GDP, it was the recipient of only 8.6 per cent
of the total outstanding credit. This indicates a significant potential for
increasing agricultural lending. As an indication of the relative scale of
agricultural credit, loans to the agriculture sector by all banks in 1992
amounted to nearly LE 5 billion or about 40 per cent of agricultural GDP. PBDAC
is the largest lender to agriculture, accounting for about 75 per cent of the
total lending in 1992, with the balance coming mainly from commercial banks; for
the latter, agriculture lending accounted for 3.2 per cent of their total
portfolios. Despite their excess liquidity in recent years (for example, in
1992, total loans/advances of commercial banks was only 40 per cent of total
deposits; another 20 per cent was investment in securities and investments),
commercial banks have not gone into rural lending. There are no apparent legal
barriers precluding their entry into rural banking.   The prevailing market
failure and reluctance to provide rural credit is largely because of the lack of
knowledge of rural clients and staff expertise in dealing with rural borrowers,
combined with the risks and greater costs of lending to small borrowers. This
has limited the creation of a rural branch network by commercial banks and has
curtailed commercial bank involvement in providing rural banking services.
Consequently, the PBDAC, which operates through 17 Governorate level Banks for
Development and Agricultural Credit (BDACs), 154 district branches, 804 village
banks and some 4,000 village level agents, has remained the mainstay for rural
banking.
2.08        The limited access of the private sector to credit facilities has
been a persistent criticism of the Egyptian banking system. However, PBDAC has
been performing well in meeting the credit needs of the rural private sector.
PBDAC has already started to shift its lending to medium- and long-term, as part
of its strategy to diversify its loan portfolio and assist agro-processing
enterprises. Opportunities to develop agro-processing industries in rural areas
are plentiful. As a result, the demand for credit exceeded available resources
of PBDAC, as evidenced by the increased borrowings from commercial banks. While
it can be assumed that in the past the low subsidized interest rates increased



- 11 -
the demand for credit, this demand continued to remain strong even as lending
rates increased in nominal terms, and as subsidies were progressively withdrawn
(from an average 27 per cent of total loan disbursements by PBDAC in 1989/90 to
10 per cent of total loans disbursed in 1991/92).   Though subsidized, the
interest rates charged were positive in real terms, equivalent to about 1
percentage point above inflation. For the five-year period 1987/88 - 1991/92,
during which interest rates were progressively increased, total lending by PBDAC
increased by an average of 16.4 percent per annum. If FY92, which saw a general
contraction in economic activity in the country, were to be excluded, the annual
growth averaged nearly 24 percent in nominal terms, and over 4.5 percent in real
terms.
2.09        Informal Credit.  Much of the agricultural finance is raised by
producers from their own resources (past savings) or from friends, relatives or
suppliers. There are rotating savings groups as well as trusted individuals who
hold savings particularly from foreign remittances. There is little information
on this subject. With the divestiture of input trading by PBDAC, traders are
likely to be an important source of credit to producers. No data is available
at present to quantify the significance of this informal source. The project
provides for a study of the rural financial sector which should contribute to a
better understanding of the pattern of savings and utilization of credit in the
rural economy.
Key Banking Resulations and Level Plavinf Field
2.10        Based on information made available by the Government, it is clear
that the non-participation of commercial banks in a significant manner in the
rural f5.nancial sector is not related to a discriminatory regulatory environment.
The CBE confirmed that the banking regulations are applied uniformly across all
banks, and that the PBDAC is subject to the same prudential regulations as all
other banks. In the past, however, PEDAC did have an advantage, in that it
received subsidies towards its lending operations which were not available to
commercial banks. Furthermore, through its trading operations, PBDAC was more
closely linked to its rural borrowers. However, subsidies have been largely
phased out, and PBDAC is rapidly divesting itself of its trading operations, with
over 90 percent of fertilizer distribution now handled by the private sector.
While subsidy dependence indicators are not available for the publicly-owned
commercial banks, estimates of these for PBDAC highlight its declining dependence
on subsidies (para. 2.08). Despite this process of levelling the playing field,
commercial banks continue to show little interest in rural lending. As stated
earlier, regulations covering capital adequacy, risk concentrations, loan
classification and provisioning, and foreign currency exposure have been issued
by the CBE.  The capital adequacy ratio is based on the risk-based capital
requirements agreed by the Basle Committee of bank regulators - at eight per cent
of risk assets. The new regulation stipulates that banks with capital adequacy
of less than seven per cent in December 1990 be given a period up to December
1993 to meet new capital adequacy standards and that banks with capital ratio
between seven and eight per cent have to meet the new standards by December 1992.
While the PBDAC group as a whole meets the condition for minimum paid-up capital
of LE 50 million (as at June 30, 1992, the capital of PBDAC was 12.5 per cent of
risk assets), some of the individual BDACs do not independently meet this
condition. An ongoing study of PBDAC' s organization and structure would examine,
inter alia, options such as consolidation of some BDACs which are under-
capitalized, increase in the equity base and issue of new shares, etc.



- 12 -
2.11        The new regulations on loan classification stipulate that assets and
contingent liabilities of banks are classified into regular and irregular.
Provisions are to be made in accordance with respective quality of assets, based
on specific periods of delays in meeting obligations by borrowers. The PBDAC is
working towards meeting these conditions with assistance from USAID; information
on compliance by commercial banks is not available.
2.12        All Egyptian banks are registered with, and supervised by, the CBE.
supervision is performed through off-site monitoring of bank performance and
visits to the banks to review their financial condition. Off-site monitoring is
centralized at the CBE, but responsibility for on-site inispection has been
divided. The Central Audit Organization (CAO), in conjunction with external
auditors, has inspected the public sector banks, and the CBE has been responsible
for all other banks.
2.13        The banking regulations of CBE apply to PBDAC (as to all other banks)
subject to certain exceptions or restrictions applied to PBDAC (as well as to the
other specialized banks) by CBE.  For instance, PBDAC is not subject to the
minimum cash reserve ratio of 15 per cent of all deposits; however, this
exception is set off against the fact that it is not permitted to hold current
account deposit from individual account holders. In addition, PBDAC is also not
eligible to hold foreign currency deposits or undertake transactions in foreign
exchange.  The CBE has confirmed that if PBDAC was to start holding current
account deposits, it would become subject to the minimum cash reserve
requirements.
Vision for Rural Banking in the Medium Term
2.14        Significant changes have taken place in the Egyptian economy over the
past few years, as part of the overall economic reform program adopted by the
Government. While much still remains to be done within the financial sector,
various measures designed to increase competition and improve the efficiency of
the banking sector have been introduced over the past few years. Consequently,
there are now no barriers in place which limit the ability of commercial banks
to enter into rural banking, other than the requirement of central bank approval
for opening new branches, a requirement which exists in many countries.
Commercial banks clearly have the financial resources to expand into rural
lending; at the end of FY92, loans and advances represented only about 40 percent
of the nearly LE 100 billion which the commercial banks held as deposits.
However, their orientation to commercial lending, and avoidance of higher costs
and greater risks generally associated with rural lending, has so far precluded
any significant involvement in rural lenCing.
2.15        Clearly,  in the  short-term  future,  the  past  experience  with
commercial banks indicates that their agricultural lending will continue for only
big enterprises and large borrowers, leaving the "small man with small causes"
to the PBDAC. While commercial banks have been induced to finance small-scale
enterprises, this has been under special credit programs rather than under their
voluntary regular lending activities. Consequently, PBDAC is likely to remain the
major provider of agricultural credit in the near term. However, within the
medium- to long-term context, discussions with commercial banks indicate that
there are some banks which are interested in expanding their portfolio of rural
lending as part of their long term strategy.
2.16        In the absence of any regulatory impediments to their increased role
in the rural sector and the declining subsidy dependence indicated for PBDAC, the



- 13 -
key factors which need to be tackled to promote commercial banks in the rural
areas is their lack of trained staff, and their limited knowledge of rural
finance, rural markets and rural clientele. The project would provide support
in overcoming these weaknesses bys improving the information base on rural areass
building skills within commercial banks In dealing with rural clients; ard
demonstrating the profitability and viability of rural banking through a
streamlined PBDAC. Technical assistance and support for training to build up
appraisal capability, develop database on rural financing and investment
activities, create profiles of rural projects and rural clients, develop and
disseminate market information, and train staff in rural banking would be made
available to participating commercial banks under the project.   Through the
PBDAC, the project would study rural financial markets, prepare profiles of rural
clients and disseminate the information to participating banks. The project
would also promote medium- and long-term lending in rural areas, and Bank loan
funds undar the project would be available for use by commercial banks.
2.17        In addition to the expectation of increasing competition in the rural
banking sector, the new vision of an evolving liberalized economy with an active
role for the private sector calls for redirection of PBDAC's activities away from
trading to one which serves mainly the banking needs of the private sector in the
rural economy.  To be an effective rural financial intermediary, PBDAC would
require the development of adequately diversified portfolio of risk assets
through the avoidance of over-concentration, either geographically and/or by
activity, on a satisfactory capital base, with sufficient liquidity to ensure the
protection of depositors, an adequate supply of loans to borrowers and profits
to shareholders.  In addition, informal credit is expected to become a more
important source mainly for short-term credit for inputs. As the private sector
expands its involvement in input distribution and marketing of agricultural
commodities, PBDAC's short-term lending would tend to decline, and medium- and
long-term lending would expand to finance capital investment in agriculture. To
finance its lending program, PBDAC would need to actively mobilize more resources
through deposits. These considerations underlie the business plan which has been
prepared by PBDAC to guide its activities for the coming five years.
B.  Prinebal Bank for Development and Agiiculatural  Qredit
Background
2.18        The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
is the largest lender to agriculture both in terms of volume and coverage of the
small farmer. It was created in 1931 as the Agricultural Credit Bank, to fulfil
the institutional credit needs for agriculture. PBDAC in its present form was
created by Law No. 117 of 1976, which widened its scope to include input supply
and marketing functions.   PBDAC is basically a holding company for the 17
Governorate level Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDACs). It
operates through three head office branches, with the main agricultural
operations conducted through 154 district branches, 804 village banks and some
4,000 village level agents within the Governorates. Each village bank has, on
average, five to seven mandoubias (village level retail outlets for farm inputs
and collection of payments). These village banks together serve a clientele of
some three million small farmers. Under the economic liberalization program,
PSDAC is divesting its trading operation and is now in the process of
transforming into a rural financial intermediary.



- 14 -
Management
2.19        PBOAC is governed by a board of directors of 25 persons, comprising
a chairman, three vice-chairmen, nine representatives of various ministries and
government agencies including the CBS, the chairman of the Central Agricultural
Cooperative Union and 11 persons appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. Those
appointed by the Minister consist of eight chosen from among the heads of 8DACs.
The chairman is appointed by the President of the Republic. Unlike most public
enterprises, PBDAC enjoys a fair measure of autonomy in its day-to-day
operations.
2.20        The management of PBDAC's operations is divided between three vice-
chairmen, one responsible for financial affairs, another responsible for credit,
commercial affairs, production, storage and branches, and the third for
organization and planning. Departments covering management information system
(MIS), legal affairs, and control and inspection report directly to the chairman.
The chairman has established committees with experts from outside  (e.g.
university deans and professors, as well as some banking experts) to provide him
necessary advice and support. For the longer term, the chairman is planning to
hire some experts as full-time personnel.   In order to strengthen strategic
planning for banking development and loan recovery, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that two-exoperts. one each in development bankina and another in
loan recoverv, would -be retainLed by PBDAC -for- a term of two years each and that
the anvointment of the experts would be made by October 31. 1994 iparas. 4.25 and
5.03 lb  . The project would complement these measures by providing training to
key staff in various aspects of banking operations.
2.21        At the governorate level, each BDAC is an independent unit, and has
a chairman and general manager to whom three line managers, viz. Administration
and Accounting, Credit and Development, and Commercial Operations, report. Even
though BDACs are independent legal bodies, each with its own bye-laws and
supervised separately by the CBE, they follow PBDAC's directives and guidelines.
The BDACs operate a network of 154 district level branches which act principally
as administrative units for the 804 village banks and over 500 shounas.21 The
organization of district branch and village bank follows the same pattern as a
BDAC, with three departments (accounting, credit and commercial) reporting to the
branch manager.
2.22        Most of the administrative and loan sanctioning powers are delegated
to the governorate-district- and village-bank offices so as to make them
functionally autonomous. The maximum loan amounts that can be approved at the
different levels range from LE 20,000 for village bank manager to LE 500,000 for
chairmen of BDACs. These amounts, which are periodically reviewed, have been
sufficient to permit efficient processing of loan applications.
2.23        Recent Measures taken by PBDAC. Over the past few years, PBDAC has
initiated a number of steps, aimed at addressing problems and issues which the
institution faces, within the context of its development strategy for the future.
In implementing the reform measures and strengthening its capabilities, PBDAC is
being supported under the USAID-financed Agricultural Production and Credit
Project (APCP).
Shoura is an open space to provide storage facilities for agricultural commodities, usually enclosed
by a sirple wire fence.



- 15 -
2.24        overall financial management in expected to be improved with the
completion of the computerized Management Information System, presently under
implementation.   Associated with this work, automated financial accounting
manuals have been completed. The accounting system has been upgraded with effect
from July 1, 1993, with the adoption of an accrual system on a monthly basis;
initial training has been provided to BDAC accounting staff in this context. It
is now proposed that accounts would be prepared on the basis of profit centers,
with the village banks being the lowest level for which accounts would be
prepared; together with the proposal tor monitoring the bank's performance
through key ratios, this would provide for more effective financial management
and cost controls. A study on cost accounting carried out by the Faculty of
commerce in Cairo University has also been completed. Within the context of the
economic reform program, a study for proposing management and ownership options
for PBDAC's stores and warehouses is presently ongoing. PBDAC is already leasing
out part of its storage space to private inputs dealers in the rural areas. A
study has also been done to re-evaluate the assets of PBDAC, and to support the
request for additional equity contribution from the Government. The work is to
be enlarged to include steps for an overall loan classification of PBDAC's
portfolio in line with CBE Directive 321 on loan classification and loan loss
provisioning.   Finally, in order to improve credit management and internal
controls, manuals have been prepared on Credit Operations, as well as on Internal
Auditing.
Staffing
2.25        At the end of 1992, PBDAC's permanent staff numbered about 32,000:
about 10 per cent of the staff was located at headquarters, 15 per cent at
governorate banks, and 75 per cent in field at village banks and agencies and
district branches. Typically, a district branch employs about 25-40 staff, a
village bank 11-30, and a mandoubia 3-5 staff.   Women employees are well
represented in PBDAC (28 per cent), but in BDACs, the proportion falls to 8 per
cent.
2.26        PBDAC's staff productivity is low; its staff costs, LE 249 million
in 1992, were 88 per cent of total administrative costs. As divestiture of
trading operations proceeds, staff expenses must first be significantly reduced,
then stabilized at normal growth which permits adequate operating margins. in
this context, PBDAC has been a pioneer in initiating implementation of a program
for reducing staff costs, following the progressive implementation of the plan
for divesting its trading operations.   Guided by the recommendations of an
internal PBDAC Committee, the bank's board has approved the implementation of a
voluntary program for early staff retirement; this plan envisages the early
voluntary retirement of about 6,850 staff over a three year period up to FY96.
As of June 1993, an estimated 1,450 staff have been voluntarily retired; the
estimated compensation of LE 29 million paid to these personnel was financed from
PBDAC's profits for FY92. In addition, it is expected that about 2,350 staff
would normally retire over the period FY93-97. Also, some 850 staff, who are
presently on long leave undertaking other assignments outside of PBDAC, are being
asked to either return or terminate their employment with PBDAC. Based on these
estimates, and given the freeze presently in force on new recruitment, it is
expected that the bank's staffing would be reduced by about 10,000 by FY97.
Based on projections of the average cost per employee, it is estimated that about
LE 100 million more are needed to finance the voluntary early retirement programs
being implemented by PBDAC. An analysis of the projected financial accounts of
PBDAC indicates that while the institution can meet these costs from internally-



- 16 -
generated resources, it will impact adversely on its overall financial viability,
particularly in terms of increased recourse to commercial bank borrowings, lower
profits and corresponding lower returns on its assets and total equity. In order
to meet its target of voluntary early retirement, PBDAC is looking both
internally and externally for financing the program. Finally, it is proposed to
implement a training program for re-training about 2,800 staff, to enable them
to take up banking-related positions in PBDAC (para. 3.26).
Staff Training
2.27        Within the context of its changing role in the new economic
environment, PBDAC is emphasizing the importance of upgrading staff skills In
banking. Accordingly, PSDAC's training facilities have been expanded and
strengthened in recent years. In addition to the residential training center at
Mahalla, there are several non-residential centers, one each in 12 Governorates
established with funds from USAID-supported APCP, and another center established
with funds from the Small Farmer Production Project (SFPP), also USAID-supported.
There are no full-time trainers but instructors are either assigned from the
operating staff or hired from outside, such as from universities. Apart from
funding, other constraints impeding effective training are lack of training
equipment and transportation facilities.
2.28        While progress has been made in upgrading staff skills, there remains
the need for providing training in relation to emerging loan demand and new means
to mobilize deposits. Rey areas requiring attention include analysis of agro-
processing projects, sector risks, project implementation monitoring, review and
analysis of business operations, particularly deposit mobilization and financial
management, as well as in the specific technical and environmental skills
necessary to ensure the quality of portfolio, with particular reference to agro-
processing operations. There is also need to provide the more senior staff with
proper orientation and training in supervising the work of credit officers and
follow-up loan amortization.
C. Lending oberations
Lendinf Policies and Procedures
2.29        Lendino  Policies.    PBDAC's  lending operations  have  conformed
generally to the principles derived from the loan policy incorporated in its
Credit Manual.   These principles seek to ensure that loans are made for
financially and economically sound purposes to which the Government has assigned
high priority and that funds lent are utilized as intended. Within the scope of
the banking laws, these policies must necessarily be developed and adjusted in
the light of experience and changing conditions.
2.30        Lending Procedures. Lending operations are presently governed by the
Credit Manual. Credit officers and staff are trained in the use of the manual.
The manual is fairly comprehensive and covers the various types of credit
available for each activity, appraisal criteria, borrower's contribution,
interest rates, maturities, collateral for loans and amount to be lent against
each type of crop. Short-term loans are usually granted for periods of less than
12 months, medium-term loans for one to five years and long-term loans for
periods exceeding five years.



- 17 -
2.31        Interest Rates.  The Central Bank of Egypt has freed all banks since
January 3, 1991, to set their interest rate structure subject to interest on time
deposit for three months and above at not less than 12 per cent per annum. The
current structure of interest rates for PBDAC is given in Arnex 2, Part A, Table
9.  Interest rates vary according to loan purposes and maturity period as
follows:
-     16-18% p.a. for short-term crop loans;
-     19-20% p.a. for short-term investment loans;
-     17-19% p.a. for medium and long-term investment loans; and
-     21% p.a. for commercial loans.
These rates, which were prevalent during project appraisal, are positive in real
terms and are subject to quarterly changes.
2.32        Borrower's contribution is required at 30 per cent of production cost
for short-term crop loans, 35 per cent of estimated cost for other short-term
loans, 15-25 per cent of the total value of agricultural machinery and equipment
(mechanization), 50 per cent of investment cost for horticulture, and 35 per cent
and 50 per sent of capital cost respectively for acquiring machinery and
purchasing fixed assets, in respect of medium-term loans.
2.33        Collateral. The value of the collateral offered to secure a short-
term loan is crop lien or on crops stored either with the bank or the borrower.
Tangible assets like machinery or equipment financed by the loan are part of the
collateral for medium-term loans. For long-term loans (land reclamation and
improvement), the collateral is a mortgage on the land.
2.34        Loan Aooraioal.  Loan appraisal is done in most cases, following
standardized procedures.   For big loans (exceeding LE 5(,000), feasibility
studies are required. A loan request is processed and evaluated by every level
from the village bank to PBDAC headquarters when loan the amount is beyond the
powers of BDAC.   With technical assistance from the USAID, PBDAC is being
assisted to improve loan appraisal and supervision procedures. A credit manual
has been prepared and is used in training credit officers and staff.
Loan Portfolio
2.35        PBDAC's total lending almost doubled from LE 2.3 billion in FY 1988
to LE 4.4 billion million in FY 1991 but declined to LE 4.2 billion in FY 1992.
An overwhelming majority of PBDAC's clients are some three million small farmers;
in a portfolio of about LE 4.2 million, only an estimated 11,000 loans exceed LE
20,000. A notable feature of thet loan portfolio is the growing share of medium-
term loans which accounted for 22 per cent of total loan disbursement by PBDAC
in FY 1992, compared to 18 per cent in PY 1988. This diversification of loan
portfolio is a promising sign and suggests the need for greater initiative by
PBDAC in studying and identifying the viable sectors of the rural economy, and
for the mobilization of resources for financing viable pro-rams on a stable an,!
increasing rate.
2.36        At the on-going rate of increase of demand for farm-related business
loans, about LE 790 million would be added annually to the list of projects. It
is expected that this trend will continue in the future and that PBDAC will
further diversify its loan portfolio.   Financial projections indicate that
disbursement of medium- and long-term loans would rise to 40 per cent of the



- 18 -
total loans granted by FY 1997. With the de-linking of input trading from
PBDAC'S lending program, it is expected that crop loans would show only a modest
nominal growth of 6.2 per cent per anntwm over the next five years. This would
allow PBDAC to devote greater attention to development lending, a key function
of the bank. Medium- and long-term loans are targeted to grow at an annual
nominal rate of about 14 per cent or real rate of 6 per cent. Overall loan
disbursement growth is conservatively targeted at 7.3 per cent per annum, which,
in real terms, implies that disbursement will be maintained at present levels.
Loan Recovery Performance
2.37        PBDACUs overall loan recovery rates have reached 92 per cent in the
past, with short-term loan collections exceeding 90 per cent and medium- and
long-term loan collections averaging 84-86 per cent during FYs 1988-91 and 81 per
cent in FY 1992. While this impressive performance in the past is, to some
extent, linked to PBDAC's input supply and marketing functions, it has,
nevertheless, established a credit discipline within the rural community of
Egypt. PBDAC's loan provisions of LE 345 million as at the end of June 1992 is
8.8 per cent of the total loans outstanding. Age-analysis of overdues is not
presently available. Taking total arrears on an annual basis and matching them
with cumulative provisions for possible loan losses gives the following picture:
Table 2.1:  OutstandinU Loans. Arrears and Provisions
..........  .  ...I:..
.........~~ . ....03iof
2. Total oans Outta90.7I 
Total*  Loa Ar<r                 11    -47    .16            20      375
{  - Shortw-term o/ 4a                    62 7l             81.a . 150
Mediu  teIan 
tem- r..a
3. Total :Ion P*viins2                                        3      34
-4. Loan Provisions/Loai 82. -07                     140      1         92
Arrears
:X. Loan Provisions/Loans          4.2.               6.7      58      8.8
Shor -termn wOvr;  esae ;Undetsat4 because   eious yeas dues
are  oto  i&luded    ;- 
2.38        Historically, PBDAC's loan collection experience has been excellent,
with no political interference in its loan recovery programs; at an average of
over 90%, PBDAC has one of the highest repayment rate among specialized
agricultural credit institutions in the developing world. Although loan arrears
have increased in recent years, provisions for possible loan losses have been
increased to adequate levels. Provisions now amount to 90 per cent of arrears;
given the lack of information on the proportion of delayed payments out of



- 19 -
arrears, it is difficult to measure in any formal quantitative manner U ante.
This task would be undertaken under the project, using the format presented in
Annex 2, Part B. In its Business Plan, the PBDAC has agreed to increase the
level of provisions from the present 8.8 per cent to 12 per cent of total loans
outgtanding by the end of June 1997.  This will allow P8DAC to maintain an
adequate level of provisions, assuming the existing average loan recovery of 88
per cent.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that PBDAC would aDDlY
policies and procedures for loan classification and rovXisionina in accordance
with the prudential reoulations of the CBH toara.  5.03 IcM.
Resources Position
2.39        Funds for loan disbursements have been obtained from: the bank's
paid-in capital, funds generated from the bank's operations, principal repayments
on loans, and borrowings from commercial banks and international agencies.
2.40        There has been a rapid increase in the bank's resources, which is
attributable to growth in deposits, foreign loans, capital grants and deposits.
In FY 1992, contribution was highest from deposits (64 per cent), followed by
capital grants  (26 per cent).   This analysis confirms the effective and
successful implementation of the development banking objectives of the bank, and
illustrates an efficient mobilization of rural deposits.  The fact that the
mobilization of term deposits, foreign loans and grants have also been increasing
at an average annual rate of 19 per cent and 44.7 per cent respectively,
indicates that the mobilization of resources for medium- and long-term lending
has been actively pursued. The increase in deposits has meant a reduced recourse
to commercial bank borrowings, a healthy development.
Financial Performance
2.41        PBDAC has always been a financially viable institution, and is
expected to remain so in the future. PBDAC's profit before tax steadily increased
from LE 168 million in 1987/88 to LE 251 million in 1989/90 before falling back
to LE 205 million in 1990/91 and then to LE 95 million in 1991/92. PBDAC's
interest income has been rising until 1992; however, the bank's interest costs
have been increasing even faster.
2.42        PBDAC's financial viability is directly influenced by the interest
margin, which is the difference between the average lending rate and the average
cost of funds. Interest margin over the past five years is illustrated below.
FY 1988   FY 1289   FY  1990   FX 1991     Y L1992
Average lending rate       15.4      16.5      16.7       16.4        17.0
Average cost of funds       7.5       8.1       8.3        9.6        12.5
Interest margin             7.9      8.4        8.4        6.8         4.5
While the trend is towards higher cost of funds, increasing from 7.5 per cent to
12.5 per cent during WYs 1988-1992, PBDAC's lending rate has also, on average,
increased from 15.4 per cent to 17.0 per cent during the same period but not as
fast. The net effect is an increasingly narrowing interest margin which declined
from 7.9 per cent to 4.5 per cent over the same period. The profitability of
PBDAC was further affected adversely by an exceptional charge (LB 29 million)
arising from early retirement benefits charged to PBDAC's profits in PY 1992.



- 20 -
This led to the weakening of PBDAC's financial performance as measured by the key
profitability ratio (pre-tax profit to average total assets) which declined from
a robust 4.8 per cent in FY 1988 to 1.6 per cent in FY 1992.
2.4         The ratio of pre-tax profit to net worth is an important measure of
the reward to the investors in the bank in relation to their opportunity cost,
and also as a measure of the efforts which the bank takas in achieving its
primary development objectives. The performance in FY 1992 is low (14.4 per
cent) by comparison with the rate of inflation.
2.44        Subsidy Dependence Index
(SDI).   SDI has been calculated to           SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX
measure the degree to which P8DAC is                     90 - FY 97
dependent on subsidies.  The results
show that a 39 per cent increase in
lending rate from 15.4 per cent to
21.5 per cent would have permitted
PBDAC to operate on a self-sustaining
basis in FY92; in FY90, the SDI was
estimated at 49 per cent.  The SDI of
42 per cent for FY92 is expected to
decline to about 13 per cent in FY97
when only a 13 per cent increase in
lending rate would permit PBDAC to
operate on a self-sustaining basis.
This trend is attributed to the
removal of interest subsidies, decline        e   l  l           I  I
in  imputed  subsidies  and  improved          . ,       .
profitability  of  PBDAC.    Detailed                   Grsph I
calculations are shown in Annex 2,
Part C.   As  is evident  from the
analysis, the preferential treatment given earlier to PBDAC is being phased out.
While SDI measures for publicly-owned commercial banks are not available, it is
clear that the playing field is being levelled, which should encourage increased
participation by the commercial banks in the rural financial sector.
2.45        Profitabilitv glements.   At present, PBDAC derives its revenues
primarily from lending, to a lesser extent from input trading and to a minor
extent from banking services and fees. Interest income rose from 61 per cent of
total revenues in FY 1988 to 72 per cent of total revenues in FY 1992, while
input trading provided 23 per cent of total revenues in FY 1992 compared to 28
per cent in FY 1988. Other revenues, including fees and other income, made up
the remaining 5 per cent of the total revenues in FY 1992.
2.46        The faster growth of interest expenses has largely contributed to the
decline in earnings in 1992. Measures for improving PBDAC's profitability are
incorporated into the proposed medium term Business Plan (Annex 2, Part B), which
include steps for reducing personnel costs and dependence on commercial bank
borrowings, greater mobilization of resources, and further diversification of
loan portfolio. These measures would be supported under the project, as well as
under projects supported by other donors, notably USAID.



- 21 -
2.47        Critical Link in PBDAC's Profit Plannino.   Village banks are a
critical link in the PBDAC system. A village bank in considered viable when it
attains a level of loan business providing it an income level which would enable
it to meet not only all operating expenses but also help it build a reasonable
level of profit over a period of time. Analyzing the experience of a typical
village bank, with average annual administration costs of around LB 94,000, the
break-even point of amount of loans to be advanced for an average branch would
be at LB 2 million. This level of loan business at LB 2 million per annum would
only enable a village bank attain break-even level of self-sufficiency. It is
important that the village bank sets a higher target if it is to earn profits to
build up improved and efficient credit delivery, supervision, deposit
mobilization, and the required bad debt and other reserves.
PBDAC's Medium-term Strateev
2.48        The senior management of PBDAC recognizes that its operations in the
medium-term need considerable attention with particular reference to ensuring its
financial viability. Accordingly, a medium-term Business Plan has been prepared
by PBDAC, which outlines the strategy for developing the bank into an effective
rural financial intermediary (Annex 2, Part B). The Plan identifies measures to
strengthen organization and management of the institution, measures for effective
mobilization of rural savings, reduction of staff costs, and adoption of new
systems and procedures in order to improve operational efficiency and
competitiveness.   These changes would be accompanied by appropriate human
resources development, including managerial, technical, and support staff, to
develop a full-fledged service operation.   Finally, financial planning and
continual monitoring of financial performance are to be emphasizeds development
of financial management expertise, definition of analytical tools and management
reports, and appropriate use of information systems are important elements in
this strategy.
2.49        The package of measures outlined in the PBDAC's medium-term Business
Plan specifies the bank's strategy to improve its profitability and
competitiveness through cutback of unprofitable services and activities,
introduction of new services and expansion of existing more profitable services,
and better cost control. Assurances were obtained at necotiations that PBDAC
would Provide the Bank not later than March 31 of each year with a Business Plan.
with annual taroets to be achieved durina the following years the Plan will
include oroiections for the comina five years IDara. 5.03id)1.  In addition, the
Business Plan will provide details of the PBDAC's operations, including: (i)
lending targets; (ii) funding needs and resource mobilization strategy; (iii)
detailed financial statements; (iv) strategy for human resources management,
including assessment of manpower and training needs; (v) management of physical
resources; and (vi) framework for improving financial viability of the bank and
for formulating operating policies and procedures.
2.50        Financial projections, including ass..ptions, are included as part
of the Business Plan in Annex 2, Part B.  Projected growth rates have been
expressed in nominal terms. Historically, the volume of PBDAC'S lending has been
limited by the availability of funds rather than demand.   Nevertheless,
projections have been made of resource requirements and resource availabilities
based on past trends. On this basis and assuming zero per cent real growth rate,
PBDAC projects an increase in deposits by LB 593 million during the period FYs



- 22 -
1993-97; commercial bank borrowings would increase marginally and its share would
decline by LE 13 million over the same period, declining from 29 per cent to 19
per cent of the loan portfolio.  Personnel costs account for a substantial
portion of PBDAC's operating costs, and the non-implementation of the early
retirement program would lead to increased costs in the future. However, results
of sensitivity analysis done indicate that PBDAC would remain financially viable
over the medium term aven if the early retirement program is not implemented.
Projections also show that P8DAC would be able to achieve its goal of utilizing
outside borrowings particularly from commercial banks (LE 1.2 billion) to finance
mainly seasonal crop production and short-term investment loans (LE 2.0 billion).
Provisions for possible loan losses as a proportion of total loan outstanding are
projected to increase steadily from the current 8.8 per cent in FY 1992 to 12 per
cent in FY 1997. Income set aside to meet this contingency would be able to
absorb these losses even if the recovery rate is assumed to fall to 88 per cent,
an unlikely event in the light of better loan appraisal and improved recovery
measures proposed under the project. Even under this conservative scenario, the
projections reveal an increasing size of net profit before taxee.
1II. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01        The major issues facing the sector at this stage are: more efficient
use of water and inputs; modernization of farm practices to improve their
efficiency; timeliness and cost effectiveness in field operations;  enhancement
of productivity in reclaimed lands; and uss of credit as a means to promote
private sector involvement in providing improved technology and services in
production, processing and marketing of agricultural products.   The project
responds to these needs.
3.02        Generation of new technology, as well as adaptation and dissemination
of available technology, is done mainly by Government agencies, and, to a lesser
extent, the academia; private sector involvement in these activities is limited.
Dissemination of technology has remained tenuous, largely because of weak
linkages between research and extension services. Development of small- and
medium-scale agro-based enterprises and post-harvest processing and marketing
activities has received only limited assistance until now. More attention to
these activities will open up new off-farm employment opportunities and increase
household incomes.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.03        The Government's role in the agricultural sector is now being limited
to a few key areas of providing major irrigation and drainage infrastructure;
adopting and implementing appropriate legislation and regulation regarding land
ownership and tenure, health and safety issues; provision of agricultural
research and extension services; and collection and dissemination of technical
and economic data relating to the sector. Private enterprise has been given a
critical role in marketing new production and processing technology and in
developing markets for products. The improved policy environment which now
exists in Egypt, with particular reference to the agricultural sector, is
conducive to profitable private investment.   The project would buttress and
strengthen these developments.



- 23 -
3.04        The project is in conformity with the Bank's country assistance
strategy as described in the Memorandum of the President (Report No. P-6203-EGT).
It is designed to support private sector development in the rural areas as well
as increase agricultural and rural incomes by improving access to investment
capital and technology for small- and medium-scale rural operations.  Rural
banking plays a critical role in this respect. The project also aims to promote
efficiency and competition in the rural credit market and is a part of reforms
in Egypt's financial sector. PBDAC's efforts to restructure and streamline its
organization under the project represents a pilot effort at administrative reform
and improved public sector management both of which are important to the Bank's
strategy in Egypt.
C. Proiect Conaent
3.05        The project concept is based ons (i) the introduction of integrated
farming packages, which, among other things, enable farmers to apply timely
cultural practices, including row planting, harvesting, and land levelling; and,
(ii) investments to reduce post-harvest losses and improve marketing services.
With the removal of controls on pricing and distribution of inputs and outputs,
the agricultural economy has become market-directed and the farming system is
becoming   commercially-oriented.       The   project   would   promote   such
commercialization. The ongoing liberalization of the financial sector, combined
with the liberalization of trade and investment regulations, provides a favorable
climate for the banking system to play its role of supporting rural entrepreneurs
to utilize modern technology, inputs and systems for advancing their production,
processing and marketing activities.
3.06        Egypt has made steady progress in technology development and use of
improved seed and planting materials, row seeding, integrated pest management in
cotton and vegetable production, custom-hire machinery services for harvesting
and threshing of grains, balanced feed diets for poultry, and artificial
insemination for cattle. However, there is considerable scope to expand the
application of these practices. The project concept attempts to capture the
dynamic nature of technology development. Through on-farm demonstrations, the
SMSs would generate demand for new types of machinery and equipment; and, through
provision of credit, traders, manufacturers and custom hire operators would be
enabled to meet the demand. Unlike in the past, the promotion of these improved
practices will occur without resort to subsidies, under free market conditions.
This poses a challenge not only to the public institutions, but also to the
private sector traders, the farming community and the banking sector. By using
credit as a vehicle for promoting use of improved technology and management
practices, the project seeks to open new opportunities for investment and bring
about a change in the system.
3.07        There are abundant opportunities for mechanization in Egyptian
agriculture. Use of laser land levelling has considerable appeal to farmers as
it leads to more efficient water use, better plant stands and improved yields.
Crop husbandry practices, such as weeding, transplanting, fertilizing, etc., lend
themselves to effective secondary mechanization and better use of available
labor. At present, the turn-around time between crops takes up to 20 per cent
of the growing season, which, in turn, results in late planting and drop in
yields: mechanization would help ameliorate this problem. Similarly, inadequate
processing and marketing services have become a bottleneck in the growth of
agriculture.   Sizable gains made in wheat, rice and maize production have
generated demand for investment in milling, storage, and transport activities.
Similar opportunities exist in dairy, meat, and horticultural sub-sectors. So



- 24 -
far, with the exception of a few investments made under externally-financed
operations, these types of projects have not received much support from the
banking community. Assistance to these activities would be encouraged under the
project.
3.08        The banking system has provided relatively few medium- and long-term
credits for small- to medium-sized agro-processing and marketing projects. Based
on the results of the Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-EGT), the
project envisages a growing demand for medium-term lending for agro-processing
activities in rural areas.   The project would provide investment financing
through the banking system, as well as technical support through the FNRI and the
regional extension and research stations; in addition, the project would help
promote dissemination of market and price information.
3.09        Institutional strengthening of the technology transfer agencies as
well as the banking sector is critical to the success of the project. Although,
commercial banks are still hesitant about participating in the project now, the
project design contains provision for training of their staff in rural banking
and for sharing of information on rural investment opportunities, so as to induce
them to participate in the project in due course. In the meanwhile, the PBDAC
will remain the credit agency for the rural sector and will act as the *apex"
agency to on-lend the proceeds of the proposed loan and credit. Consequently,
besides improving the resource base and streamlining of PBDAC to enhance its
rural banking capablities, the project would foster interaction among the
various agents involved, i.e. the producers, bankers, extensionists, technology
transfer specialists and SMSs, researchers, traders and marketing agents.
Training of relevant staff and effective monitoring and evaluation of performance
would be carried out under the project. The project would also support a system
of incentives for good performance by staff engaged in credit and extension
activities.
D. Project Objectives
3.10        The project's key objectives are tot (i) increase agricultural
productivity by promoting appropriate technological packages at the farm level;
(i$) increase rural income by creating off-farm job opportunities in storage,
processing and marketing activities, trading in agricultural inputs, contractual
and custom hire services, and agro-based enterprises; (iii) streamline PBOAC's
organization and strengthen staff capabilities to enhance its performance as an
effective rural financial institution; (iv) facilitate participation of
commercial banks in supporting rural investments, and (v) improve capabilities
of relevant institutions to bring about effectlve coordination among the various
agencies engaged in the provision of credit, technology transfer, and marketing
services.
B. Project DesoriRtion
3.11        The project would be national in scope and the line of credit
component in the project would support investments in modernizing farming
practices and post-harvest handling of produce in both the old Lands and the
reclaimed New Lands. It would finances
(a)   on-farm technoloav improvement (US$115.0 million) which would
cover selective mechanization of land levelling, seed-bed



- 25 -
preparation, on-farm irrigation, seeding, crop husbandry,
agro-chemicals and pesticides application, and harvesting;
(b)   aoro-based enterorises (US$95.0 million) for establishing:
custom hire services for farming operations, warehousing,
processing and marketing of produce; and
(c)   institutional development (US$59.0 million) of: (i) the PLDAC
and other participating banks to strengthen their rural
banking activities, such as deposit mobilization and rural
investn.ents, PBDAC to divest its non-banking activities and
streamline its organization, construct and establish 20
village banks, and train relevant staff in banking skills; and
(ii) the relevant agencies of the MALR to disseminate improved
production and processing technology and promote sound farm
management practices, provide market information to producers,
and facilitate better coordination between credit, research,
extension, processing and marketing.
P. Detailed Project Features
3.12        The project consists of a line of credit to provide funds to
agricultural and agro-processing machinery dealers and manufacturers, input and
output traders, farmers, and investors to meet their investment and incremental
working capital requirements. Details of the mechanism for utilizing the line
of credit are contained in para. 4.12. While the line of credit will not be
earmarked for specific uses, the criteria for its use would emphasize utilization
of improved farm technology packages and investments in agro-processing and
marketing services.
3.13        On-farm Technological Imvrovement.  Major issues to be addressed
through this component are: efficient use of water and inputs; modernization of
farm practices to improve timeliness and cost effectiveness, and enhancement of
productivity of reclaimed lands through introduction of appropriate technology
for various categories of farmers. A well-coordinated mechanization program
would: (a) help the sector overcome seasonal farm labor shortages; (b) increase
yields through the introduction of improved seeding and crop husbandry practices;
(c) reduce intervals between crops and enable more intensive use of land by
following optimal planting and harvest dates; (d) increase labor productivity;
and (e) create new investment and job opportunities, particularly in local
manufacturing and operation and maintenance of agricultural equipment, and in
provision of agricultural mechanization services to farmers.
3.14        The core element of the technology package is the adoption of
mechanized row planting and inter-row crop maintenance practices.   Use of
improved land levelling, pressurized irrigation, seed drilling, fertilizer
drilling, and integrated pest management are components of the package.  To
modernize agricultural practices and to intensify land use, tractor units have
to be versatile, with power levels and capacity to handle multiple tasks in a
single pass. Such tractor units are expensive. Given the small-size holdings
which characterize the Egyptian farming sector, provision of custom hire services
of equipment is key to modernizing farming activities. As noted before, farmers
already utilize custom hire services offered by other farmers, entrepreneurs or
cooperatives to supplement their own machinery capacity. Since Egyptian farmers
raise various crops, the project will promote utilization of versatile equipment



- 26 -
and upgrade the quality of field operations by introducing improved machinery
such as better designed chisel plows.  It will provide a range of machinery
suited for specific areas and crops, such as disc harrows for light soils, rotary
tillers for seed-bed preparation in heavy soils, and small tractors for
horticultural areas. Trials carried out in Egypt which combined row seeding and
improved irrigation has shown that yields of field crops increase by some 20 to
30 percent, with water savings of the same magnitude. Use of precision planters
and seed drills for row seeding has resulted in some 10 percent reCuction in seed
and fertilizer use, improved crop stands, and yield increases of 10 to 15
percent.
3.15        In order to ensure adequate availability of machinery and spare
parts, the project would provide financing to the banking system through a line
of credit administered by the PBDAC as the *apex" agency. In this context, it
should be noted that, although a free foreign exchange market exists in Egypt and
Egyptian banks have sufficient access to these resources, the agricultural sector
has been unable to tap this market as the banks have not given priority attention
to service the needs of the sector. This is largely because of the lack of
adequate institutional arrangements for field-level demonstration of new
technology, as well as lack of familiarity of the banking system with rural
investment opportunities.   By placing particular emphasis on field-level
demonstrations through Regional Research and Extension Stations (RRESs) and
Extension Information and Demonstration Units (RIDUs), the project seeks to
remedy the weakness in technology dissemination; similarly, by training of bank
staff in rural credit and by sharing information on rural investment
opportunities, the project seeks to mobilize commercial banks' participation in
the project.   The proceeds of the loan would be channelled through PBDAC's
branches and the 8DAC network as well as qualified participating banks.
Financing would be made available for import of agricultural machinery and
equipment, components, spare parts, and goods by dealers and manufacturers, as
well as custom hire operators, cooperatives and farmers. It is expected that
some 480,000 feddans would benefit from row planting and inter-row cultivation.
Taking into account increased farmer interest in the production of horticultural
crops, the project would finance, inter alia, equipment and supplies for green
houses, as well as mid-sized tractors for use in orchard cultivation. It would
also finance on-farm irrigation improvements. To meet the needs of the reclaimed
New Lands, where soils have a lower water holding capacity, and to promote more
efficient irrigation in appropriate cases in the Old Lands, the project would
finance investments in high pressure pumping units, pressurized sprinklers, drip
irrigation systems, and equipment for fertigation.
3.16        In  order  to   finance  improved  technology  packages,  some
rationalization of the present organization of PBDAC would be necessary.
Functions relating to on-farm investment financing within PBDAC are now
distributed among different organization units, such as production requirements,
machines, agricultural mechanization, development requirements, storage and
supply, development projects, rural development, etc.   It is necessary to
consolidate these activities into a single department of PBDAC and provide the
department with needed equipment and technical know-how.
3.17        Dissemination of newly generated technology as well as available
technology would become the responsibility of the RRESs. Of the 10 RRESs, three
-- one each in the Delta, Upper Egypt, and New Lands -- have been selected for
upgrading, on a pilot basis, under the project. The activities of these stations
would draw upon skills available not only in the ARC and the extension service,



- 27 -
but also in universities, the private sector, and the farming community. Field
demonstrations would be an important means of disseminating technology.
3.18        Agro-based Enterprises. There is no earmarking of funds for specific
sub-sectors under the project. The investments envisaged would, inte* alia,
cover: (a) modernization or rehabilitation of existing lines, such as wheat and
rice mills, edible oil extraction units, cheese processing, drying of fruits and
vegetables, etc.; (b) dealerships and/or workshops supplying and servicing post-
harvest activities, dairying and veterinary services, handling, storage,
transport, conditioning and processing equipment; (c) new processing lines and
equipment, such as, tomato juice extraction and production of tomato-based
bouillon cubes, etc.; and (d) other small agro-based enterprises engaged in
distribution.   Beneficiaries are expected to provide about 30 per cent of
investment cost and permanent working capital requirement; term credit would
provide the remaining 70 per cent. Financing would be provided for machinery,
equipment, spare parts, information services, software, office technology, and
buildings. Financing of storage, transport and marketing facilities, which are
badly needed in the New Lands, would receive particular attention under the
project.
3.19        With the anticipated expansion of demand for agro-based operations,
the existing units within PBDAC which deal with agro-industry would be
consolidated into an "agro-based enterprises department." The department would
be headed by a Director, assisted by three technical staff with qualifications
and experience in marketing and agro-processing; in addition, an information
center would be set up, inter alia, to assemble and maintain technical data and
operate a resource library. Technical assistance of 24 person-months would be
provided under the project for upgrading staff capabilities and improve services
needed for expanded lending. The project will finance small- to medium-scale
(i.e., with assets not exceeding US$3.0 million) agro-based enterprises. The
department would establish a register of competent technology and business
consultants who are qualified to assist potential investors prepare bankable
project proposals and feasibility studies for farm-related business and agro-
industrial investment, prepare marketing studies, or provide market intelligence
and business advice. This would be a service provided by the PBDAC for promoting
diversification of the rural economy; access to the consultant's register will
not be restricted. While the initial costs of this service would be borne by
PEDAC, it could consider levying a reasonable charge to investors utilizing the
service.
3.20        PBDAC  would  conduct  appropriate  market  and  sector  analyses
periodically to determine investment demand in these areas and share the
information with participating banks and the investment community.  Possible
areas of study include the scope for investments in custom hire services and farm
input trading, post-harvest handling, conditioning (including milling), packing,
storing, transporting, processing and marketing of cereals and oil seeds, fruits
and vegetables, animal products, etc.
3.21        Institutional DeveloDment.  Modernization of agriculture requires
coordination of services and resources from both the public and private sector.
Experience demonstrates that a diffused approach of dealing with several agencies
would be counterproductive, and that designating a single agency to mobilize the
necessary services is more cost-effective and efficient. The Project Management
Department (PMD) located in PBDAC would provide this focal point.



- 28 -
3.22        Technical assistance totaling 96 person-months of international
experts and 335 person-months of local experts has been provided for under the
project to: (a) assist PBDAC to upgrade its planning, accounting, banking and
loan recovery, and new types of lending capabilities (including agro-industrial
lending) and establish environmental appraisal and management capacity; and (b)
assist the regional and sub-regional research, extension information and
demonstration centers to mobilize expertise from various sources for technology
development, demonstration and dissemination in both production and processing
activities.
3.23        Training would be key to achieving the objectives of the project.
The project would expand and improve the training program of PBDAC and
participating commercial banks.   It would emphasize training of branch and
village bank officers and staff. Local training in such key areas as appraisal,
monitoring, supervision and recovery of loans, loan classification and
provisioning, rehabilitation of problem accounts and accounting and MIS
reporting, would receive attention.  In the case of PBDAC and BDAC staff in
particular, attention would be devoted to analysis of agricultural and agro-
processing projects, sector risks, project implementation and loan monitoring,
review and analysis of business operations especially deposit mobilization and
financial management, and incorporating environmental considerations within loan
appraisal and monitoring procedures. Overseas training for about 390 staff on
short visits of two to twelve weeks amounting to 770 person-months has been
included in the project (para. 3.26). Main fields of training ares project
appraisal, market study, deposit mobilization, private sector dealers' support,
small enterprises, new credit lines, loan collection, banking services, rural
enterprises and village program, internal audit, and women in development. In
addition, PBDAC would enter into a twinning arrangement with a similar, but more
mature, agricultural credit institution in another country. Selection of the
twin agency (or agencies) would be made in consultation with the Bank by December
31, 1994.
3.24        The project also provides for a study on rural financial markets;
this study would b--: completed by December 31, 1994 (para. 4.21). Its results
will be used to improve rural banking services and increase rural savings
mobilization. PBDAC would share with the commercial banks the findings of this
study.
3.25        Rationalization of PBDAC's staffing as well as retraining and
redeployment of personnel needed for its banking operations would be supported
under the project (paras. 2.26 and 3.24). The early retirement program is a
voluntary one and the "bonus" for early retirement targets mainly mid-grade level
staff (i.e. unit chiefs, researchers and clerical staff) to avail of the offer.
The average amount of compensation for such early retirees is estimated at LB
15,434 (or US$4,635) each. Project training funds would be used to cover the
local training costs of some 2,800 staff presently engaged in trading activities
and facilitate their absorption into banking operations.   As part of the
restructuring activities, PBDAC would prepare an assessment of its staff-mix
requirements and establish targets for retirement or retraining and redeployment
of excess staff.  Assurances were obtained at neaotiations that PBDAC would
Provide the Bank by September 30. 1994. with its staff retirement and trainino
Proaram nroDosal 4Daras. 4.19 and 5.03(e)}.
3.26        Village banks are in dire need of upgrading to attract customers and
the PBDAC's management is already engaged in rehabilitating or reconstructing
village banks which are in a run-down condition. In addition, it is necessary



- 29 -
to open bank offices in the New Lands. Taking these factors into account, the
project provides for 20 village banks to be constructed (or rehabilitated) and
equipped. Assurances were obtained at neaotiations that PBDAC would provide the
Bank by September 30, 1994. the justification for orogoging new offices.
arrangements for site accuisition. and estimated costs and eoeScted benefits from
the o2enina of these branches ioara. S.03(fil.  There will be two types of
building designs, one for a large village bank and another for a small village
bank and these designs have been found acceptable.
3.27        The technoloav transfer component includes promotion of (a) on-far
production technologies, and (b) rural enterprise development. The project,
while operating within the existing institutional framework, will add some
critical skills needed and establish the linkages required to bring about
effective use of available technology. To this end, the project will test the
appropriateness of the proposed system by upgrading three RRESs - at Sakha in the
Delta, Sids in Upper Egypt, and Nubariya in the reclaimed area - designated by
the Government. The design of the pilot program takes into account the need for
decentralized operations according to the agro-climatic zone.   It seeks to
establish close collaboration between the various agents involved - i.e.
research, extension, credit, input suppliers and farmers. It emphasizes cost
effectiveness and, if successfully implemented, it would, in the long term,
enhance the effectiveness of agricultural services while reducing research and
extension outlays. The RRES in Sids will provide office space to the staff, but
this would need to be added in Sakha and Nubariya. The project will provide
furniture, various equipment, materials, and vehicles. it will also provide for
a limited amount of laboratory and agro-industrial prototype equipment for the
FNRt. At Nubariya station in New Lands, additional accommodation as well as
infrastructural facilities will be built in order to strengthen research and on-
farm activities, and to establish an irrigation demonstration farm. Pour SMSs,
one each in farm mechanization, on-farm water use, production economics and
marketing, and agro-processing, will be assigned to each of the three REESe.
These SMSs will be drawn from the concerned institutes of the ARC. They will
work  full  time  in the project.    The  staff will  be  selected based on
qualifications, relevant experience, and commitment to the program. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that 12 SMSs would be selected and assioned to the
three RRESs by October 31, 1994 fpara. 5.03(all. The training to be provided
under the project envisages 30 person-months of overseas training and 63 person
months of local training (including 21 person-months of environmental training)
for selected RRES staff.
3.28        The link between the RRESs and the extension service would be
strengthened through 33 Extension Information and Demonstration Units (EIDUS)
belonging to the Extension Service.  Each EIDU is designed to serve 10,000
farmers. Each EIDU will have one extensionist, who will be the head of the unit,
and four technology transfer specialists (TTS), one each in farm mechanization,
on-farm water management, production economic and marketing, and agro-processing.
All the staff will be drawn from the existing cadre of extension services in the
governorates, and they will be carefully selected. Assurances were obtained at
neaotiations that to each of the 13 selected RIDUs. an experienced extensionist
and four technoloav transfer specialists would be assioned by October 31. 1994
loara. 5.03(gc).  The project would provide adequate office accommodation and
physical facilities for farmers, visits, meetings, exhibitions, audio-visual
programs and on-farm demonstrations. The EIDU in Nubariya will, in addition,
need residential accommodation as no private or government accommodation is
available at the sites. The existing VENs in areas served by the BIDUs will also
participate in the program.  The project provides for 20 person-months of



- 30 -
overseas training and 972 person-months of local training for staff drawn from
the extension service.  The major target for local train-.ng would be the TTSs.
VEWs will generally receive on-the-job training while working with TTss.
Training of farmers would be done mainly through demonstrations and meetings.
These activities would be decentralized and demand driven and would be undertaken
after assessment of response of farmers to new technological options. Training
will also be provided to custom hire operators, as well as farmers and agro-
industrial investors through appropriate training centers.
3.29        Provision of Credit and Extension Support to Women.  The PBDAC has,
in recent years, begun giving special attention to provision of credit to women
farmers and investors. It has 10 staff trained in promoting lending to women and
there are 161 village banks with lending programs for women. It is proposed to
target 350 village banks to extend loans to women during 1994. Arrangements
exist already for lending to womens' groups and to accept group guarantees for
such loans. The average borrowing by women tends to be relatively small, at LE
900, and loans are utilized for farming, agro-processing and other productive
activities. During FY93, there were 21,000 women who borrowed from the PBDAC.
With regard to extension services for women farmers, there are at present 780
female staff, including 242 female extensionists. MALR envisages a more active
role for women in extension services and training programs are in place to
achieve this objective. The project includes specific training courses to staff
in credit and extension services to women.
G.  Proiect Cost and Financina Plan
(a) Cost Estimates
3.30        The project costs (including contingencies) are estimated at LE 1,081
million (US$268.8 million) of which the foreign exchange cost is LE 460.7 million
(US$113.6 million) or 42 per cent of total cost. The machinery, equipment and
vehicle prices are based on the prevailing retail prices in Egypt in June 1993.
Consultant services have been estimated at a unit cost of US$15,000 per month for
foreign experts and LE 2,000 per month for local experts. Import duties and
sales taxes are reflected in the calculation of the project cost.  Physical
contingencies have been included for civil works at a rate of 10 per cent. Price
contingencies in US Dollar terms amount to 10 per cent of the base cost, on the
basis of annual international and local inflation rates as follows:
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8
--------------------- per cent per annum ---------------------
Foreign     1.2      2.4    3.2       3.4     3.2     3.3      3.4     3.3
Local       9.5      6.1    5.5       5.0     4.5      4.0     3.8     3.8



- 31 -
3.31        The estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.1 (detailed in Annex
5, Tables 1-4). The on-farm technology improvement component is estimated to
cost US$115.0 million (about 43 per cent of total project costs including
contingencies) and consists of two sub-components: aelected incremental equipment
for modernisation (e.g. laser levelling, pressurized irrigation equipment, small
multi-crop combines, small reapers and binders, etc.) accounts for US$79.0
million; and other regular equipment needed for field operations (e.g. medium-
sized tractors, small irrigation pumps, sugarbeet diggers, sugarcane harvesters,
etc.) accounts for US$36.0 million. The cost of agro-based industries have been
based on conservative assumptions of likely investment needs for viable small-
and medium-scale rural enterprises during the project implementation period. The
investment demand for such enterprises is estimated at US$95.1 million (or 35 per
cent of total project cost). The total cost of institutional development is
estimated US$58.7 million (or 22 per cent of total project cost). A substantial
portion of this (US$42.0 million) would be directed towards technical assistance
and training to upgrade rural banking capabilities of the PBDAC and participating
banks, rehabilitation and expansion of some 20 rural banks, and payments for
early retirees and for training for redeployment of excess staff in PBDAC. The
cost of strengthening RRESs and EIDUs is estimated at US$17.0 million.



- 32 -
Table 3.1 PROJECT COST SUMMNY
('000)
Locat    Foreign   Total         Local    Foreign    Total      Xforeign  Xtotel
Exchange  Ease
___________________  _____________________      _ _ _ __Costs
A. FARM INVESTE0JTS    162284.6  177985.8  340270.4   48704.9   53417.1  102122.0       52.3    42.0
8. AGRO-BASED       169800.0  113200.0  283000.0      50960.4  33973.6   84934.0        40.0    34.9
ENTERPRISES
C. INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
1. Rural Banking    118185.5  25927.0  144112.5    32597.8   m71.2   40379.0          19.3    16.6
2. Transfer of    36871.1   16137.5   53008.6       11065.8   4843.2   15909.0        30.4     6.5
Agricultural
Technology    _
SubrTotal           155056.6  42064.5  197121.1       43663.6   12624.4   56288.0       22.4    23.1
Total BASELINE COSTS  487141.2  333250.3  820391.5   143328.9  100015.1  243344.0       41.1   100.0
Contingencies
Physical           1011.4    544.6    1556.0         303.5    163.4      467.0        35.0     0.2
Price            132632.1   126945.1  259577.2      11541.3   134440_  24985.3        53.8    10.2
Totat PROJECT COSTS   620784.7  460740.1  1081524.8  155173.7  113622.5  268796.3       42.3   110.4
=====zua3_==_u
(b) Financing Plan
3.32         Bank Group financing would total US$121.0 million, comj  sed of a Bank
loan of US$54.0 million, and an IDA Credit of SDR 48.7 (US$67.0 million
equivalent), and would cover the entire foreign exchange coat (estimated at
US$113.6 million) and about 5 per cent of local costs. The full amount of the
Bank loan and an amount of SDR 33.4 (US$46.0 million equivalent) of the IDA
Credit would be utilized to finance purchase of machinery and spare parts, while
the remaining amount of SDR 15.3 (US$21.0 million equivalent) would be applied
to meet part of the cost of institutional development. Private investors would
contribute 22 per cert and the PBDAC and Government together would bear the
remaining 33 per cent of the project cost. The proposed financing plan is as
follows (Table 3.2):
Table 3.2 FINANCING PLAN
Percent
Local         Zonijn       Total         gf Total
---------- .--  .4 Wlion)------------
Bank Group
IBRD                     -           54.0          54.0          20
IDA                     7.4          59.6          67.0          25
Government/PBDAC    89.0                -          89.0          33
Investors             58.8              -          58.8          22
TOTAL                  155.2        113.6         2688          100.0



- 33 -
B. procuresm
3.33           Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following tablet
Summary of Yroposed rogcurement Arran;ements
(US$ Million equLvalent)
Table 3.3 p=OUgq=Ml=YsH
Procumment Element                     QC1                   OtCher     K&A     Totat
1. Goods
1.1 Machinery, Equipment, and Goods                -           -       210.1         -        210.1
(100.0)               (100.0)
1.2 Vehicles, Laoary and Office Equipment         5.1         1.2                    _         6.2
(4.0)      (3.0)                             (4.3)
2. Work
2.1 Civil Wods                                                 5.3                              5.3
(2.1)                            (2.1)
3. Cosltncies
3.1 Speciized Sernoie                                         -        1.8"         -         1.8
(1.8)                  (1.8)
3.2 Stuies                                                              0.7_  b                0.7
(0.7)                 (0.7)
3.3 Taining                                                             gg9.9                   9.9
(9-9)                 (9.9)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Dexmostato                                                          4.4d         -         4.4
(2.2)                 (2.2)
4.2 ILstitifmonal Restructuring                                -          -         26.2       26.2
6. Operation and M `ansnee                                        -          -         4.1        4.1
TOTAL                                                5.0         6.5       226.9       30.3      268.7
(4.0)      (2.4)     (114.6)               (121.0)
Qo:  Figues in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan and IDA crdit Amounts
Imclude contingencies. NBF: Not Bank/IDA Financed.
a/     Procurement by private sector under procedures that work efficiently.
kI      Services should be procured in accordance with uorld Bank gufdelines: Use of Consultants by Wortd Bank
Borrowers and by the IorLJ Bank as an Executing Agency (fashiluton, D.C., August 1981).
Services of demonstrations would be prcured uwder Bank/IDA guidetinew



- 34 -
3.34        The project will facilitate access to the Egyptian agricultural
machinery and equipment market for suppliers from all Bank member countries and
Taiwan, China. There are no import bans which affect the import needs of the
project: and, significant progress has been achieved in reducing tariff levels
under the ongoing ERSAP which ia being closely monitored by the Bank. Import
tariffs for tractors (20 to 85 hp) have been reduced to 20 per cent, and for most
other items, the import tariffs are 5 per cent.) Procedures for import and for
issue of letters of credit have been simplified. Specifically, the Government
has rescinded the requirement of prior approval of the Ministry of Military
Production to permit import of agricultural equipment which the military
factories are licensed to produce. The competitive environment which prevails
in the agricultural machinery market ensures unhindered access to the market by
suppliers and availability of modern technology to farmers and investors. The
ongoing Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-EGT) has already
enabled the establishment of 83 local dealerships for machinery manufacturers.
A wide range of foreign manufacturers of agricultural machinery and equipment are
already represented in Egypt. The project would potentially increase the number
of suppliers further and promote strong competition and increased range of
choices of equipment for custom hire operators and other beneficiaries. The PMD
would ensure that the procurement methods established under the Loan and Credit
are followed. The procurement arrangements agreed at loan negotiations ensure
sufficient notice to be given internationally, so that manufacturers from all
Bank member countries would have an equal opportunity to establish agencies in
Egypt and qualify for financing under the project.
3.35        Procurement of eaui=ment would respond to market demand involving
numerous dealerships and beneficiaries and a wide range of equipment to be
imported by the private sector periodically throughout the   implementation
period. It is not feasible to "package" the number of contracts. Most import
orders would be in the range of USS5,000 to US$300,000. No contract is expected
to be valued at more than USS500,000. The import orders would be too dispersed
and small-scale to be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB).
Availability of after sales service is of critical importance in the choice of
machinery and equipment by the beneficiaries. Procurement of vehicles and office
eauiument and laboratory eauinment for the PMD, PBDAC, RRESs and EIDUs are
subject to ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (May 1992).0 Egyptian manufacturers competing under ICB would
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 per cent of the CIF price, or the
prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less,
provided they can prove that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Egypt equal to at least 20 per cent of the ex-factory price of
such goods. Imports by dealers of aaricultural inwuts, such as improved seeds
and planting materials, compounded fertilizers, veterinary drugs, animal feed,
etc., tend not to exceed US$100,000 individually in most instances and would be
procured under established procedures that work efficiently; in rare instances
where such procurement exceeds US$1.0 million, it would be subject to ICB
procedures.   Contracts for the provision of technical assistance would be in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for thi Use of Consultants (August 1981), and
subject to Bank approval.   Consultant contracts of more than US$100,000
equivalent with consulting firms and more than US$50,000 equivalent for
individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA.
3.36        Civil works expenditures for rehabilitation,  expansion or new
construction of buildings for village banks and RRESs and EIDU, would be subject
to local competitive bidding, since these works would be relatively small (each
building is estimated to cost less than US$50,000) and are in dispersed



- 35 -
locations, and therefore not suitable for ICB procurement.   Local bidding
procedures for these small contracts which have been applied in other Bank-
financed projects carried out by the PBDAC, are acceptable to the Bank.
3.37        The PMD would sample about 5 per cent of contracts under US$Soo,000
equivalent, and review at least ten contracts in the first year of the project
to ensure compliance with the covenants. The documentation would be kept in the
PHD for selective review by Bank supervision missions {para. 5.03(h)).
1. Disbursement
3.38        The proposed Bank loan US$54.0 million and the portion of the IDA
credit which is earmarked for on-lending purposes (US$46.0 million equivalent)
cover all foreign expenditures of machinery, equipment, and supply of goods, and
the remaining portion of the IDA credit (US$21.0 million equivalent) would be
applied to the institutional development component of the project. Disbursement
would be made in accordance with Guidelines for Withdrawal of Proceeds of IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (November 1985). Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0
million equivalent (about 1.5 per cent of the Credit) has been provided under the
IDA Credit to cover eligible expenditures incurred after February 1, 1994. The
retroactive financing proposed will facilitate timely launching of the project.
The loan and credit proceeds are expected to be fully disbursed over a period of
about eight years which is the standard disbursement profile for Bank-financed
projects in Egypt.
3.39        To facilitate project execution, PBDAC would establish: (i) a Special
Account in a commercial bank, in US dollars, with an initial deposit of US$2.0
million out of the Bank loan; and (ii) another Speclal Account in a commercial
bank, in US dollars, with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million out of the IDA
credit. Disbursement would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) or
directly against letters of credit. Except for consultants' contracts of over
US$20,000, contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent would be financed
under sOE procedures. Relevant documentation in support of SOEs would not be
submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the PMD and made available to
Bank supervision missions and to ir.dependent auditors.   Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly, or whenever the
Special Account is drawn to 50 per cent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first.
3.40        The allocation of the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit to different
categories is shown in Table 3.4.



- 36 -
Table 3.4: DISBURSEMENT PLAN
-   |    Amoumt Al located     | Percentage of Expenditures to be
CATEOORY                   (USS Nillion           finaneed
Equivatent)
Loan           Credit
Allocation     Altocation
(1) Machinery equipment,       54.0           46.0         100l of foreign *xpenditures, 1001
and goods                                              of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) or 60X of local expenditures
for other items procured localty.
(2) Vehicles, laboratory 8                     3.9         1001 of foreign expenditures, 1001
office equipment and                                   of local expenditures (ex-factory
training materials                                     cost) or 701 of local expenditures
for other Items procured locally.
(3) Civil works                                1.9         401 of expenditures
(4) Demonstration                              1.9         501 of expenditure.
(5) Expert services,                          11.2         1001 of expenditures
studies & training
(6) Unallocated                                2.1
TOTAL                   54.0            67.0
The project completion is expected by June 30, 2001, and it i8 anticipated that
the Bank loan and IDA credit will be fully disbursed by that date. The Closing
Date would, therefore, be June 30, 2001. The estimated schedule of disbursement
is summarized in Table 3.5 below and detailed in Annex 6.
Table 3.5: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE OF IBRD LOAN AND IDA MREDIT
--------- IBRD/TDA Fiscal Year ---------
1994    1995    1996    1997         1998      1999       2000      2001
---------------------(US$ million)-------------------
IBRD Annual             0.0       3.9      4.5      6.6       8.8        9.7      10.1      10.4
IBRD Cumulative         0.0       3.9      8.4    15.0       23.8       33.5      43.6      54.0
IDA Annual              0.0       9.4      9.4      9.8      10.3        9.1       9.2        9.8
IDA Cumulative          0.0       9.4    18.8    28.6        38.9       48.0      57.2      67.0
Total Cumulative        0.0    13.3    27.2    43.6          62.7       81.5    100.8    121.0



- 37 -
IV. PtROJNY IXPLMONTATION
A. PBDAC As Proiect Implementing Institution
4.01        Project implementation would be the responsibility of the PBDAC which
would has established a new Project Management Department (PMD) for this purpose.
The Bank loan of US$54.0 million would be made to the PBDAC with the guarantee
of the Government of Egypt. The IDA credit of SDR 48.7 million would be made to
the Government for on-lending to the PBDAC, out of which SDR 33.4 million
(USS46.0 million equivalent) would be utilized for sub-loans to investors, and
SDR 15.3 million (US$21.0 million equivalent) would be used for institutional
development. The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would provide the loan
guarantee for a fee of 0.125 per cent. PBDAC would bear the foreign exchange
risk; to cover its risk, PBDAC would pay a fee to the Ministry of Finance. This
fee ts currently determined to be three per cent of each maturity. The Ministry
of Finance will review this rate at mid-term and adjust it periodically
thereafter during the maturity period of the loan, so as to reflect market
considerations, i.e, to make the loan to be in line with the changes in the value
of the Egyptian pound.
4.02        PBDAC has been designated as the most appropriate apex institution
to implement the project. The choice of PBDAC to play this role is based on the
following considerations: (a) It has demonstrated its capabilities in utilizing
credit as an effective vehicle for disseminating new technologies with economic
potential to the farming community and rural entrepreneurs. In so doing, it has
established effective linkages with extension staff utilizing a performance-based
system of incentives for those engaged in promoting modern farming practices. (b)
PBDAC has also established effective links with agricultural machinery dealers
under the ongoing Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-EGT) and is
familiar with procurement and disbursement procedures under Bank loans. (c) In
line with the liberalization program, PBDAC has substantially divested its
trading and distribution activities and has trained and financed private
investors to perform these activlties. (d) Credit availability is a key factor
in adoption of modern farming practices and development of agro-based
enterprises, and PBDAC, with its network of village banks, is well positioned to
make credit available to the rural community. Besides, it will collaborate
closely with other commercial banks which might be qualified to participate in
the project. Since modernization involves collaboration among various agents
involved in the process, effective coordination would be important. The PHD
located in PBDAC would be the focal point for project implementation.
4.03        The prospect of effective participation by commercial banks in the
project hinges on: (a) the cost of loan funds and the margin of profitability it
affords to PBs, (b) staff skills needed for rural operations, and (c) willingness
of commercial banks to comply with Dank's loan conditionality and supervision
procedures. However, it is anticipated that as the project gets started, a
select number of commercial banks may develop interest in the project; therefore,
the project has been designed to facilitate their participation. By providing
access to project funded technical assistance and training, there is scope for
commercial banks to familiarize themselves with rural banking and investment and
to have an adequate cadre of staff trained in such operations.
4.04        The eligibility of commercial banks to participate in the project
would be subject to Bank approval and would be based on their full compliance
with the prudential regulations of the CBE; the CBE has agreed to confirm



- 38 -
compliance in this regard. In addition, PBs will need to have their financial
accounts audited by private external auditors, in accordance with internationally
accepted auditing practices, and submit a copy of the audit report to the Bank.
4.05        Soon after the loan and credit are approved by the Bank and IDA,
PBDAC would write to the major commercial banks informing them of the project
details and loan and credit arrangements, as well as the terms and conditions
which would apply with regard to the use of the funds.   Subsidiary Loan
Agreements would be entered into between PBDAC and each commercial bank qualified
to be a PB. The terms of proposed onlending would be satisfactory to the Bonk.
Assurances in this regard were obtained at loan neaotiations {para. 5.03(i)3.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements should be executed not later than 12 months after
the loan and credit become effective. A supervision mission at the end of the
first year of the project would examine the interest and extent of participation
of commercial banks and make amendments to project arrangements as appropriate.
B.  Project Imnlementation Arrangements
4.06        The Chairman of PBDAC has been designated as the Project Director
responsible for project implementation.   He would head a Project Steering
Committee (PSC) which would guide and monitor project implementation. Membership
of the PSC would include the Environmental Advisor of PBDAC, high-level
Government representatives from the MALR, Ministries of Finance, and
International Cooperation, and the Agricultural Research Center (ARC), as well
as private sector representatives from the banking, machinery and input trading,
and farming communities. The PSC would be responsible for guiding and monitoring
project implementation. It would meet at least semi-annually; more frequent
meetings would be appropriate in the initial stages of project implementation.
A full-time Project Coordinator and two Deputy Directors would assist the Project
Director in the implementation of the project. one of the Deputy Directors would
deal with project components involving technology transfer, while the other would
deal with banking-related issues involving the PBDAC, BDACs and other PBs. The
Project Coordinator would act as the Secretary of the PSC.   The Project
Management Department (PMD) would be managed on a day-to-day basis by the Project
Coordinator. The PHD would retain adequate numbers of full-time staff who are
familiar with project administration and Bank procedures of disbursement,
procurement and progress reporting. Necessary incentives and training would be
provided to the staff of the PMD as well as those in the field with specific
responsibilities for promoting new technologies and types of investment
activities.
4.07        In order to promote the project and streamline relevant procedures
to effectively meet the expectations of the beneficiaries of the project, an
Implementation Advisory Committee (IAC) has been established. The IAC includes
representatives of agricultural machinery and equipment dealers, agro-industrial
investors, and farmersl besides, members representing the MALR, concerned ARC
institutes and universities and the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA)
have been appointed to the committee. The Project Coordinator will act as the
Secretary of the IAC as well. Meetings of the IAC will be held at least semi-
annually, and the outcome of the meetings will be reported to the PSC.
4.08        Status  of  Implementation  Arranoements.    In  accordance  with
understandings reached at project appraisal, the Borrower has already established
the PHD and designated the Project Director, the Project Coordinator and two
Deputy Directors.  In addition, the PSC and IAC have been established with



- 39 -
representation as outlined in para. 4.07 above. An office of Environmental
Adviser has also been established in the PBDAC. These actions demonstrate the
Borrower's commitment to launch the project promptly (paras. 4.06 and 4.07).
4.09        Dissemination of Technoloav.  XALR will be responsible to carry out
this component with the support of concerned Deputy Director in the PMD, who will
act in close liaison with the Director General of ARC and the First
Undersecretary for Agricultural Extension.   Each MRES will designate a team
leader from among the four SMSs (one each in on-farm water management,
mechanization, agro-based industry, and economics and marketing) to coordinate
the activities of the four SMSs involved in the agricultural modernization
components specified in the project and provide the work program and budget
needs.    Based primarily on proposals received from the RRESs, the PMD will
allocate  funds.   The Deputy Director of the PMD will convene   periodic
consultative meetings with a small group representing the ARC Institutes
concerned (the AERI, FNRI, SWRI and AERI) and the team leaders of the three pilot
RRESs to review progress  in project implementation.   Since exchange of
information and experience will be vital for the spread of technology, the RRES
team leaders will organize semi-annually joint workshops with representatives of
the PBDAC/BDAC, directors of extension of the concerned governorates, members of
the agricultural faculty in the local university, private input and commodity
traeers, machinery dealers, and selected members of agro-industrial investors and
farmers. These regional workshop meetings will review achievements and future
work plans and render assistance in facilitating coordination among the various
agents of change in the local community.   The Director of Extension of the
Governorate concerned will designate competent extension officials to manage each
of the EIDUs and the field program. The designated extensionist who will be the
leader of the group would, in collaboration with the TTSs, prepare and handle
audio-visual materials. The TTSs, with the support of SMSs, will plan and carry
out demonstration programs. The TTSs will interact closely with the farmers,
VEWs, credit officers, machinery and input suppliers, and custom hire operators
in order to secure their participation in the demonstration programs.
4.10        The key element of program planning would be that it should be demand
driven and decentralized to the level of the beneficiaries, i.e. the farming
communities. The TTSs in each EIDU will identify specific problems and needs of
farmers and, in collaboration with the SMSs, formulate a three-year rolling
program. The program will be indicative in nature and adapted as circumstances
warrant. Annual work programs will be extracted from the three-year program.
The Deputy Director of PMD in-charge of technology components will compile the
program and submit it to PSC for approval not later than March 31 of each year.
The Project Director will assume responsibility for program approval. Approved
programs for the three pilot regions will be compiled together and distributed
to all EIDUs as a means of sharing knowledge.
4.11        Since EIDUs will be the hub for transfer of technology, there would
be special attention paid to staff training.   At the start of the project,
designated SMSs will  receive training  in the relevant ARC  institute to
familiarize themselves with relevant technology options and visit machinery
manufacturers and university stations as necessary. Provision has been made for
22 person-months of short-term overseas training for selected SMSs and ARC staff
involved in the project; similarly, 20 person-months of overseas training is
provided for TTSs and extension staff. Provision has also been made for in-
country training of the various agents involved in the project, such as farmers,
custom hire operators, and extensionists. At the beginning of each season, a
one-week workshop of SMSs and TTS5 will be held in each RRES to define plans for



- 40 -
implementation of the program for the season. Besides on-farm demonstrations,
the EIDUs will hold farmers' meetings and exhibitions to present new technology.
The meetings will be used to disseminate not only knowledge of technological
options, their costs, benefits, merits and demerits, but also market information,
environmental messages, safety measures in handling machinery and chemical
inputs, etc. The program will be gradually developed by each EIDU to cover a
target population of 10,000 farmers during the project implementation period.
The success of the program will be assessed based not merely on the number of
demonstrations conducted or farmers contacted, but more importantly on demand
generated for new equipment or practices, as well as loans requested.
4.12        On-Lending Arranaements.  PBDAC would utilize the proceeds of the
loan for onlending through the BDACs, as well as PBs. The onlending interest
rate would be sufficient to cover Bank's variable interest rate, plus the
commitment charges, guarantee fee, the foreign exchange risk premium, and a small
administrative overhead (of 0.5 per cent) to compensate PBDAC for its costs in
being the "apex" agency.  onlending of the loan proceeds to BDACs and PBs would
be on identical terms. Foreign exchange needed by importers of agricultural and
agro-industrial equipment, components, spare parts and inputs would be made
available by the PBDAC, BDACs and PBs either through a "cash window" or a "credit
window".  In the case of the "cash window", foreign exchange is provided to
clients against an equivalent amount of local currency payment, and the local
currency proceeds of these transactions would be utilized for financing rural
credit needs. These arrangements have worked satisfactorily under the Second
Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-EGT). Alternatively, clients would
be offered term credit (i.e. "credit window").  Such term loans, which would be
appropriate for borrowers of sizable amounts for investment in equipment, agro-
processing enterprises, etc., would be subject, inter ala, to appraisal
procedures to evaluate economic, financial and environmental viability of
proposed investments. Interest rates for credit window customers would be market
determined. In instances where the sub-loan exceeds US$1.0 million equivalent,
the appraisal should be submitted to the Bank for prior review and comments.
4.13        PBDAC's credit manual sets out sub-loan purposes, sub-loan size,
interest, sub-borrowers' contribution, collateral, appraisal and approval
procedures, and repayment periods. There is a committee which oversees the
manual and approves changes as required. While these procedures and terms and
conditions of lending are deemed satisfactory, there is need to modify the
manual to provide for environmental assessmerts for selected operations. PBDAC's
Business Plan recognizes the need to incorporate environmental considerations
within the loan appraisal and monitoring procedures. Assurances were obtained
at necotiations that environmental screenina auidelines. consistent with the
Bank's Operational Directive N_o.OD 4.01 and national criteria for environmental
assessment. would be oreoared for use by the staff of PBDAC. BDACo and PBs
{paras. 4.33 and 5.03(k)}.
4.14        Approval of medium- and long-term lending for sub-projects would
continue to be supported by adequate technical and financial appraisals. For
relatively new areas of activity, i.e. loans for marketing and processing, the
content and methods of appraisal would be suitably expanded and refined to
include environmental assessment. Provision has been made in project financing
to enable employment of necessary experts on a short-term basis to assist the
PBDAC in the review, appraisal and supervision of these investments.
4.15        PBDAC's loan disbursement and supervision arrangements ensure that
expenditures are in conformity with the applicable lending agreements. Desk



- 41 -
checking is supplemented by field visits to sub-projects. Follow-up reports on
each visit would comment on utilization of sub-loan funds, compare actual with
projected operations, review sub-borrower's management and financial competence
and make recommendations. This report should, in future, include an assessment
of environmental impact and propose mitigation plans where necessary.
C. Loan Recovery
4.16        PBDAC would define loan classification and set up provisioning as
required by the CBE. The required provisions for possible loan losses would
better reflect the quality of the portfolios as charges for non-performing loans
would be immediately reflected in each branch/village bank's profit and loss
account.    Staff training would be strengthened to promote bank-customer
relationship and carry out proper loan appraisal and supervision. PBs will have
access to such training.   Although PBDAC's loan recovery record has remained
remarkably sound in the past, it would face increasingly higher risks in new
lending areas with the divestiture of its trading activities; therefore, possible
future loan losses are likely to be greater. To protect itself against such a
situation, PBDAC will raise its provisions for loan losses in stages, rising from
ten per cent in FY 1993 to 12 per cent in FY 1997. Required increases in loan
provisions will necessitate modest infusion of capit& by the Government. This
infusion will be of practical value only if overdues of new loans can be reduced.
Several measures, including policies on loan classification, provisioning and
suspension of interest accruals, improved loan appraisal and supervision and
effective staff training have been proposed to improve loan recovery.
D.  Strenathening PBDAC's Organization
4.17        To consolidate its organization ar  current activi.ties, PBDAC has
been filling key management vacancies.   Furtiier changes being considered by
PBDAC's management comprise of reorganization and restructuring of PBDAC and
affiliated EDACs, qualitative improvement of staff skills through training and
provision of technical assistance, enhancing financial policies, improved
performance monitoring and reporting, deposit mobilization, and further
diversification of the bank's portfolio. Various actions have been initiated
towards this end, as summarized earlier. PBDAC has also prepared a comprehensive
medium-term Business Plan together with an Operational Action Plan (Annex 2, Part
B) which incorporates these elements. The plan, which will be rolling plan, will
be updated annually; and annual targets to be reached will be established in the
p an {para. 5.03(d)).
4.18        PBDAC, with the support of the USAID, is carrying out an organization
and management study to review its structure with a view to improving the
profitability of its banking business, covering, inter liIa, reorganization of
branches and village banks to eliminate lose centers, control of expenses,
revision of the branch network after careful assessment of profitability and
expansion of profitable banking services. It would also include organizational
and financial analysis of rural banking operations and administration. Among the
major activities would be an analysis of administrative costs and personnel costs
at each level of the organization.   This data would be used to assess the
financial viability of business units throughout the PBDAC system.
4.19        The study would also assess and propose actions to strengthen
financial management which could be improved and operationalized at every level
of the organization. Performance ratios would be calculated at each level and



- 42 -
would be made part of the financial statements of each business unit, treated as
a profit center. The organizational study would also review the effectiveness
of measures to reduce payroll costs. Among the actions currently conceived to
reduce these costs are retirement programs, retraining programs, and incentives
for employees.   Components of the staff redeployment plan are already under
implementation as noted in paras. 2.26 to 2.28. Assurances were obtained at
necotiations that PBDAC would rirovide the Bank not later than September 30, 1994.
with its annual retirement. retrainina and redeplovment orogram and. thereafter.
undate the Plan by April 30 of each vear: (paras. 3.25 and S.03(e)).
4.20        In order to rationalize and, as necessary, expand PBDAC's branch
network in the future, guidelines for decision making would be formulated, taking
into account the underlying objective of decentralization to the point of contact
with clients.
4.21        To enhance the level of knowledge of the rural economy and enlarge
banking activities to serve these areas, the PBDAC would organize a study of
rural financial market. The draft terms of reference of the study are contained
in Annex 2, Appendix 3. Local university researchers may be co-opted to carry
out this study in association with PEDAC staff. The rural savings study would
include recomendations for a medium-term strategy for deposit mobilization in
rural areas. Assurances were obtained at neaotiations that PBDAC would: (it
carry out a study of the rural financial market. with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. and provide the Bank with the findinas and
recommendations of the study not later than December 31. 1994: (ii} develop a
strateav for devosit mobilization and provide a plan and taroet for deposit
mobilization taking into account the findinas of rural financial study, to the
Bank not later than March 31. 1995 for review and comments: and (iii} establish
tarcets for deposit mobilization for each succeedina fiscal year durina the
oroiect implementation period and provide them to the Bank not later than March
31 of each year {para. 5.03(1)).
4.22        The PBDAC and the BDACs need to build up capacity to carry out
economic and financial analysis of projects, particularly for new types of
lending. It is also necessary to train the staff in appraising the environmental
risks associated with investments in sub-projects.   Guidelines governing
operations also need to be revised to incorporate environmental consideratioas
in project selection, appraisal, and monitoring. The Environmental Adviser in
the Office of the Vice-President of Operations of PBDAC would have overall
responsibility for monitoring the performance of the portfolio and would ensure
appropriate environmental standards being maintained in approving sub-projects.
The "twinning arrangement", as set out in para. 3.23, would provide for exchange
of visits and periodic involvement of experts from the "twin institution" to
directly guide the PBDAC staff. Necessary funding to facilitate such activities
is included in the project. Selection af the twin institution would be made by
the Project Director by December 31, 1994.
4.23        Provision of incentives is a necessary component in the operational
environment which prevails in Egypt. This is justified on grounds of poor civil
service pay scales and lack of differentiation between poor performers and high
achievers. Experience under bilateral programs indicates that a performance-
based incentive system would optimize benefits to the individuals concerned, and
in turn, to the institution and the economy at large. It is, therefore, proposed
to adapt PBDAC's existing incentive system to this project. Effectiveness of the
incentive system would be reviewed annually by the PMD as well as by Bank
supervision missions.



- 43 -
4.24        To  enable  PBDAC  to  successfully  carry  out  its  program  of
organizational strengthening while its operations are expanding and becoming more
diversified, technic I assistance would be nacessary, particularly in support of
planning and management, and loan appraisal and loan recovery. The critical part
of the project would be carried out through the end of 1996, which is an
appropriate time span for this essential support. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations on technical assistance arranoements for PBDAC {paras. 2.20, 4.25,
4.30 and 5.03(b)).
4.25        Technical assistance would be provided by two qualified specialists:
A development banking/planning specialist, who would be retained for a term of
not loes than two years, would have a management/banking background, and would
be placed in an advisory position with the PBDAC Chairman. In addition, there
would be a loan administration and recovery specialist, who would be retained for
a term of two years {paras. 2.20 and 5.03(b)).  Terms of reference for the
proposed specialists are given in Annex 2, Appendices 1 and 2.
4.26        The  financial  viability  of  PBDAC  in  the  changing  financial
environment will depend upon its ability to maintain an adequate interest margin
through intermediation of funds and transformation of assets and liabilities.
Assurances were obtained at neaotiations from PBDAC reaardino til recortina of
loan recovery and aceino of arrears by October 31.  1994.  and each year
thereafter. (ii) annual reportina. becinnina March 31. 1995. of Proaress made in
denosit mobilization and (iii) reducing and maintaining operatina exoenses that
would not exceed 60 per cent of the PBDAC's net interest income by June 30. 1997
{paras. 5.03Cm, n, and o0).
4.27        Since 1991, the Government has started divesting PBDAC of its input
supply and marketing functions. This is an important step in gearing PBDAC to
realize its rural banking functions. As the premier rural financial institution,
the PBDAC has a special role to play in providing leadership in this development.
With proper organization, it can provide investors with know-how in rural banking
and rural business opportunities. Under the project, P8DAC would, partly through
contracts with specialized agencies close to the banking sector, carry out
promotion and study activities and provide services to the 8DACs to help them
diversify their lending. These services would include the regular collection,
analysis and distribution of statistics on agricultural credit demand and supply,
and the dissemination of typical investment models that demonstrate their
technical, financial and economic viability, and the degree of risk involved.
In order to assess the impact of these activities and develop recommendations for
more efficient delivery of credit to the agricultural sector, the PBDAC would,
by the project's mid-term review, have in place an effective mechanism to
collect, analyze and disseminate data on agricultural credit supply and demand.
4.28        P8DAC will enhance its financial policy and management by better
utilizing existing information systems and by building up financial reporting
capabilities.    The organization has made progress  in computerizing loan
information, extending computer systems to BDAC, branch and village bank levels
(on a pilot basis), and in adopting standardized financial statements for several
levels in the PBDAC system. PBDAC is also working with a consultant group to
develop and operationalize a cost accounting system.  Plans are underway to
extend these initiatives throughout the PBDAC system, a process managed jointly
by PBDAC, donors and consultants.
4.29        PBDAC needs to develop accurate and concise financial reports for
management.   Many such reports may readily be developed using existing



- 44 -
information.  In certain cases, the timeliness, accura-y and completeness of
financial data may require attention. Because of the complexity of this task,
it is proposed that PBDAC initially focus attention on designing and creating a
handful of key reports.  The topics to be addressed are: key indicators of
financial performance, capacity to analyze variance in operating and monitoring
of asset quality, and recovery performance.
E. ^ocounts and Audits
4.30        Separate accounts regarding all project expenditures would be
maintained by the PMD. The Special Accounts would be under the control of the
PMD.   The Project Accountant would closely collaborate with the two Deputy
Directors in organizing the records and establishing a monthly reporting system
of financial accounts by each of the participating units in the PBDAC and the
MALR.   These accounts would be audited annually by an independent external
auditor. Assurances were obtained at necotiations that (al the S2ecial Accounts
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
PBDAC: and (b) the Proiect accounts would be consolidated for auditina by
indenendent auditors accentable to the Bank, and the audited accounts. together
with the auditor's opinion, would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of
the close of each financial year {para. 5.03(p)}.  The consolidated project
accounts would include details of withdrawals from the Loan and Credit accounts
made on the basis of SOEs and the auditor's opinion as to whether such
withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by the Bank and
Irk. Technical assistance has been included in the project to upgrade PBDAC's
financial management capabilities and to assist PBDAC in preparing its annual
accounts in accordance with international accounting standards. Assurances have
been obtained at negiotiations that effective July 1. 1994. the accounts of PBDAC
would be subiected to external audit by independent auditors. and the audited
accounts, together with the auditor's reports. would be furnished to the Bank
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year ivara. 5.03afll.
P. Environmental INDact
4.31        Environmental priorities in Egypt are dominated by the critical need
to manage scarce water and land resources more efficiently. The project would
finance improved agricultural practices which would have environmental benefits
in terms of reducing use of: (a) water through laser land levelling and
conversion of flood irrigation to pressurized irrigation wherever appropriate;
(b) fertilizers through provision of equipment and services for fertilizer
drilling and fertigation; and (c) pesticides through intensified campaigns for
integrated pest management for cotton and other selected crops. Already, with
the removal of subsidies for fertilizers and pesticides, use of these inputs has
been reduced. Nonetheless, there is need for an environmental management plan
to ensure that mechanisms are put in place to prevent project funds being used
to finance activities that might have adverse environmental impacts.
4.32        The PBDAC does not possess environmental assessment skills at this
time. Although a special Environmental Unit was established within the MALR, the
staff of the unit does not have specific training or experience in environmental
audit or assessment. The Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) is also
experiencing difficulty in finding national expertise for recruitment.   In-
country training programs are being developed with technical assistance from
external donors to increase the number of personnel trained in environmental
matters.



- 45 -
4.33        The environmental classification of the project is "8". The project
design provides for a four-pronged approach to deal with environmental concernst
(i) An Office of Environmental Adviser has been created in the PBDACI  A
qualified Technical Officer would be appointed to assist the Environmental
Adviser. To provide additional technical support to the Environmental Adviser,
an environmental specialist will be recruited internationally and financed under
the project for a term of two years. The Environmental Adviser with necessary
technical assistance, would draw up appropriate environmental guidelines for use
by the entire PBDAC network. The guidelines would identify types of sub-loans
which would require environmental analysis and would specify the extent of the
analysis required; (ii) Provision has been made for staff training in
env3 inmental screening, analysis and monitoring. Four training sessions of six
days, each would be held annually to familiarize the bank managers, credit
officers and loan supervision staff in these matters. In all, some 100
participants would benefit from these programs each year and a total of some 700
bank officials are expected to be trained during the project implementation
period; (iii) Sub-projects, particularly in agro-processing and land reclamation,
would require environmental analysis to be included in feasibility studies and
such analysis should include environmental mitigation plans as necessary. Sub-
projects with unacceptable environmental impacts would not be financed; and (iv)
Environmental training for SMSs, TT8s, extension workers and farmers is included
as part of the project. The curriculum for the training will be developed in
consultation with the Environmental Adviser and the EEAA. Assurances in this
reaard were obtained at neaotiations {paras. 4.13 and 5.03(j)).
4.34        In order to ensure the soundness of the project portfolio, the
Environmental Advisor would be appointed to the PSC. A representative of the
EEAA will serve on the IAC to ensure that the project activities are consistent
with the environmental laws and strategy of the country. The mid-term review of
the project would evaluate, anter alia, the progress made in implementing the
four items set forth above. Such early evaluation would facilitate adoption of
remedial measures as needed under the project.
G. Project Launching, Monitoring Evaluation and Reporting
4.35        A project launching workshop would be held in June/July 1994, with
the participation of the Project Director, the Project Coordinator, the Deputy
Directors, the key department heads of PBDAC, other relevant officials from MALR,
including heads of the three pilot RRESs. It would be followed by a separate
session to brief machinery importers and manufacturers and bankers interested in
participating in the project. These start-up missions would require staff input
of 12 staff weeks and would include four Bank staff members. The intensity of
the supervision offort would be greater during the early stages so as to ensure
smooth functioning of the project. The frequency of supervision would be, on an
average, twice a year in six monthly intervals. Annex 8 contains a proposed
supervision plan, with the details of the required staff inputs and skill
requirements.
4.36        PMD will monitor the physical and financial progress of the project,
in collaboration with the Evaluation and Follow-up Unit (EFU) of the Department
of Planning of PBDAC. It will collect and consolidate the data on sub-loan
commitments and disbursements, physical achievements under selected sub-projects,
operating results of investments financed, recovery performance, financial
indicators, subsidies, divestment of PBDAC's trading activities and related
issues of retirement of excess staff, staff training, construction of facilities,



- 46 -
and purchase of equipment and vehicles. PMD will provide: (i) to the management
of PBDAC and the PSC a summary monthly monitoring report, and (ii) to the Bank,
semi-annual progress reports within three months of the end of each semester
which will include commitments, disbursements, sub-loan maturities and actual
collections by category, status of training, staff reduction, and progress of
village bank construction, and procurement of equipment and vehicles. The semi-
annual reports would also cover a brief account of unusual problems encountered
in the process of implementation. Annual progress reports would contain sections
on the addition or deletion of dealers and custom hire operators, receptivity of
the farming community to new equipment demonstrations and installations, extent
of adoption of technology packages by the farming community, performance of TTSs
and extension workers, and agro-based enterprises established (number, types, and
distribution). An overall evaluation of project performance against targets set
in the annual plan would also be included in the report.  Specific sections
dealing with environmental issues encountered and resolutions thereof, and
support given to women and disadvantaged groups would be included in the report.
These reports would also evaluate progress made in the implementation of the
business plan, including the status of arrears calculated in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.   In order to provide benchmarks to measure the
development impact of the project, three surveys would be carried out by the PMD,
one each in project year 1, 3 and 7 (Annex 9).
4.37        A mid-term review of the project will be carried out jointly by the
PMD and the Bank by December 1997. The review would, inter alia, cover: (i) the
progress made in the implementation plan resulting from PBDACs organization and
management study; (ii) progress made in PBDAC's Business Plan and performance
indicators set out in Annex 9 (the key indicators to be monitored would include
measures of profitability and efficiency of operations as indicated by key
ratios, progress in resource mobilization and in the implementation of the
training program); (iii) extent of commercial bank participation in the project;
(iv) effectiveness of the apex lending arrangement; (iv) effectiveness of the
technology transfer arrangements in the three pilot areas; and (v) effectiveness
of training given to PBDAC and MALR staff in environmental screening of projects,
and of technologies introduced.  Assurances to this effect were obtained at
egotiations {para. 5.03(q)).
4.38        Within six months of the closing date of the loan and credit, the PMD
will prepare a project completion report in the form proposed by the Bank.
B. Project Benefits and Risks
4.39        Project benefits would result in stronger agricultural institutions,
improved resource use, promotion of environmentally sound farming practices,
increased availability of mechanization support in all regions of the country,
more private sector participation in input and output trading, and enhanced
agricultural and agro-industrial support services in the pilot areas identified
in the project.   Increase in crop yields, reduction in farm input usage
(particularly in seed, fertilizer, pesticide and labor), reduction in post-
harvest losses, and increased value of products through processing would result
in more rural household incomes and a diversified rural economy. Direct benefits
yield an economic rate of return of about 38 per cent for the project (Annex 7).
4.40        Agricultural research and extension services would be brought closer
together at all levels through the project and there would be better information
exchange between the technical institutions and the credit institutions. The



- 47 -
benefits of such coordinated approach would assist various segments of the rural
community, including farmers and small rural entrepreneurs. The restructuring
of PBDAC into a full-fledged rural financial institution would improve rural
banking servicees besides, the support it would provide to traders, custom hire
operatore, and entrepreneurs in rural Egypt would stimulate investment and create
new job opportunities.
4.41        The benefits of institutional strengtheninig at the national level are
difficult to quantify. A conservative approach has been adopted in calculating
the direct benefits of the project. Details of the analysis are given in Annex
7.   Although on-farm technology improvement and farm related   enterprise
development complement each other, they have been analyzed separately to bring
into sharper focus their direct cost and benefit structures.
4.42        On-farm Technologv Improvement. It is assumed that the primazy means
of upgrading on-farm technology is through mechanization services. In Egypt, as
family holdings are generally small, machinery services are provided through
specialized custom hire operators and through neighboring farmer groups. Without
grouping together the beneficiaries, utilization of technologies such as laser
land-levelling would not be feasible. Based on prior experience of specialized
service providers, the analysis assumes a 10,000 fEddan model to capture the
benefits of using various types of equipment needed for modernization of farming.
The investment costs are based on retail prices for equipment prevailing in June
1993. Useful life of equipment was assumed as eight years. All economic values
were converted into local currency at LE 3.332 to one US dollar. Shadow wage
rate was equated with prevailing financial wage rate. A Standard Conversion
Factor (SCP) of 0.907 was applied toward the project's non-tradable costs and
benefits to adjust for remaining economic distortion. Adoption rate was assumed
to increase only gradually, rising from 30,000 feddans (or 0.5 per cent of the
planted area) in project year 1 to 480,000 feddans (or 6.0 per cent of the
planted area) in year 7 of the project. Despite the fact that mechanization and
improved farm.ng practices under the project would benefit all crops, benefits
were calculated only for those crops which lend themselves to row planting (e.g.,
wheat, barley, beans, sugar beet, flax, lentils, maize, rice, sorghum, soybeans,
peanuts, sesame and sunflower). While significant yield increases have been
observed in pilot operations, the project assumes yield increase of only 15 per
cent at full development; similarly, it assumes only a 10 per cent reduction in
input usage (such as, seed, fertilizer, and labor). No reduction in costs has
been assumed for usage of water and pumping, notwithstanding the fact that there
would be reduced need for water with improved land levelling.
4.43        World Bank projections were used to estimate economic prices of
traded inputs and outputs; financial prices were equated to economic prices in
the case of non-traded goods. A time lag of six months was assumed between the
time of investment in equipment and the yield benefit to the farmer.
4.44        The resulting Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the on-farm technology
component is 38 per cent, and the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) is 27 per cent.
The reduced FRR is attributable mainly to the inclusion of 1S per cent of taxes
and import duties. At full development, this component would result in an
incremental crop production benefit of about LE 82 million and saving of about
LE 2 million worth of seeds and about LB 4 million worth of fertilizers per
annum. While 7,500 unskilled jobs would be lost, there would be an offsetting
gain of 5,100 skilled jobs in farm machinery operations.   Additional job
opportunities would be created in machinery repair services and in product
handling and marketing networks, but no estimates have been made of these



- 48 -
numbers. In all, the on-farm technology component would benefit some 240,000
farm families.
4.45        Sensitivity Analysis.  A shadow discount rate of 13.5 per cent has
been assumed as the cut-off rate for optimal utilization of investment capital.
Switching Values of Critical Variables
Variables                         switchina Values
Benefit from Crop Production           -32%
Benefit from Input Usage               -97%
Investment Cost                        +76%
operating Cost                         +54%
Total Benefits                         -24%
Total Costs                            +32%
4.46        Benefit calculations assume a relatively low adoption rate and
conservative increment in yields of 15 per cent, notwithstanding results
indicated by farm surveys which indicate more than 20 per cent yield increases.
There is, therefore, adequate safeguard built into the assumption of total
benefits. As regards costs, the prices of farm machinery and equipment are
likely to remain stable, given the high degree of competition in the Xgyptian
market among dealers of various international machinery and equipment and the
competition which exists among the fast growing custom hire service contractors.
4.47        Aaro-based Enterorises.  The liberalized economic environment in
Egypt is conducive to the growth of a new class of rural entrepreneurs. Recent
experience under the ongoing Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-
EGT) indicates that there is considerable scope for expanding rural private
investments, provided the needed technical, financial and market intelligence
services could be brought within the reach of such entrepreneurs. It is not
feasible to predict the pattern of investment demand for the numerous types of
agro-based enterprises. For purposes of this project analysis, four prototypes
of rural-based enterprises (i.e. Emall-scale custom service operation, medium-
scale custom service operation, small-scale rice and wheat milling, and medium-
scale horticultural sorting and packing station) have been selected.   The
analysis includes all costs, including working capital needs.   The average
economic life assumed varies between 8 and 10 years.  For economic analysis
purposes, direct transfer payments, such as, taxes and duties have been deducted
from financial prices and a SCF of 0.907 was applied toward the non-tradable
costs and benefits of individual enterprises. The ERR and PRR calculations for
these enterprises are presented in Annex 7, Tables 1-16 and are summarized belows
(per cent)
(a) Small-scale custom service operation       24         29
(b) Medium-scale custom service operation      27         38
(c) Small-scale rice and wheat mill            29         41
(d) Medium-s3ale sorting and packing station  39          48



- 49 -
4.48        Sensitivity Analysis.   Switching value analysis indicates that
benefits would have to fall by a range of 19 to 47 percent or costs increase by
23 to 88 percent for the ERR to fall to the level of the opportunity cost of
capital of 13.5 per cent. These figures indicate a fairly robust ERR.
Switching Values of Critical Variables
Variables                                       Switchina Values
Benefit from small-scale custom operation            -19
Benefit from medium-scale custom operation           -24
Benefit from small--scale rice and wheat mill        -47
Benefit from medium-scale sorting and packing        -44
station
Cost increase in small-scale custom operation        +23
Cost increase in medium-scale custom operation       +32
Cost increase in small-scale rice and wheat mill    +88
Cost increase in medium-scale sorting and packing   +79
station
4.49        Proiect Risks.  The project faces three significant risks:  First,
slackening or reversal of macroeconomic reform is a risk which would discourage
investors.   While the current slackness in investment growth seems to be
attributable to economic recession and weak demand, effective implementation of
the private sector development and public sector reform aspects of ERSAP would
be of critical importance for the project's success.   Second,  delays in
implementation of the redeployment program may occur due to inadequacy of
resources for PBDAC to make severance payments for its redundant staff. The
project provides for retraining so that the displaced employees could be
redeployed to other activities, such as trading and other professions in the
service sector. Third, participation of commercial banks in onlending to the
rural economy which is one of the project's objectives, may be at risk if it
develops only slowly. Provision of technical assistance and training under the
project should help reduce this risk.
V.  AGRBENW(TS REACHED AND RECONXENDATIONS
5.01        In addition to the cross effectiveness condition between the loan and
credit agreements, a condition of effectiveness would be the execution of the
financing agreement between the GOB and PBDAC for passing on the proceeds of the
IDA credit.
5.02        The Borrower has met all the conditions for Board presentation which
are as follows: (i) the establishment of the PSC (para. 4.06); (ii) the
establi3hment of the IAC with membership (para. 4.07); (iii) the establishment
of the PMD (para. 4.01); (iv) the appointment of the Project Director, the
Project Coordinator and two Deputy Directors (para. 4.06); and (v) the
establishment of an Office of Environmental Adviser in the PBDAC (paras. 4.08 and
4.33).



- 50 -
5.03        The following assurances were obtained durina neagotiations from the
Borrowerst
(a)   The accounts of PBDAC would be subjected to external audit by
independent auditors effective July 1, 1994, and the audited
accounts, together with the auditors' reports, would be
furnished to the Bank within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year (para. 4.30)S
(b)   PBDAC would appoint by October 31, 1994 a development banking
expert, a loan administration and recovery specialist, and an
environmental specialist, with qualifications and terms of
reference acceptable to the Dank (paras. 2.20, 3.19, 4.24,
4.25, 4.33);
(c)   PBDAC  would  apply  policies  and  procedures  for  loan
classification and provisioning in accordance with the
prudential regulations of the CBE (para. 2.38);
(d)   PBDAC would provide the Bank, not later than March 31 of each
year, with a Business Plan with annual targets to be achieved
during the following year; the Plan will include projections
for the coming five years (paras. 2.49 and 4.17);
(e)   PBDAC would provide the Bank by September 30, 1994, with its
staff retirement re-training and redeployment program proposal
and budget and thereafter annually not later than April 30 of
each following year (paras. 3.26 and 4.19);
(f)   P8DAC would provide the Bank, by September 30, 1994, the
justification for proposing new village banks, arrangements
for site acquisition and estimated costs and benefits from the
opening of these branches (para. 3.26);
(g)   MALR would assign by October 31, 1994 four full-time SMSs to
each of the three RRESs to be upgraded at Sakha, Sids and
Nubariya and one extensionist and four full-time technology
transfer specialists to each of the 13 BIDUs to be established
in the first year of the project (paras. 3.27 and 3.28).
(h) PMD would comply with the procurement arrangements indicated
in paras. 3.34 - 3.37;
(i)   PBDAC would onlend proceeds of the Bank loan to participating
banks (including BDACs) on terms satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.05);
(j)   At the start of the project, designated SMSs would receive
three weeks of training in the relevant ARC institutes to
study technology options and visit machinery manufacturers and
university stations (para. 4.11).
(k)   PBDAC would prepare enivironmental guidelines for use by the
staff of PBDAC, BDACs and PBs,  train its staff in the
application of the guidelines and ensure that all sub-project



- 51 -
activities conform to the guidelines, issued by the Government
of Egypt and acceptable to the Bank (paras. 4.13 and 4.33);
(1)   PBDAC woulds (i) carry out a study of rural financial
markets, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and
provide the Bank with the findings and recommendations of this
study not later than December 31, 1994; (ii) develop a
strategy for deposit mobilization and provide the Bank not
later than March 31, 1995, with a plan and target for deposit
mobilization; and (iii) establish targets for deposit
mobilization for each succeeding fiscal year and provide them
to the Bank not later than March 31 of each year (para. 4.21);
(m)  PBDAC would, furnish to the Bank by October 31, 1994, and each
year thereafter, a report on loan recovery and ageing of
arrears, and (ii) by March 31, 1995, and each year thereafter
a report on deposit mobilization (para. 4.26);
(n)   Beginning March 31, 1995, PBDAC would report on progress made
in deposit mobilization annually (para. 4.26);
(0)   PBDAC would reduce operating expenses and maintain such
expenses at a level which would not exceed 60 per cent of
PBDAC's net interest income by June 30, 1997 (para. 4.26);
(p)   PMD would (i) have the project Special Accounts audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
PBDAC, and ($i) have the project consolidated accounts audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and have the
audited accounts, together with the auditor's opinion
furnished to the Bank not later nine months after the close of
each financial year (para. 4.30); and
(q)   PMD, together with the Bank, would undertake a mid-term
review of the project by December 1997 (para. 4.37).
5.04        With the above assurances, the project would constitute a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$54.0 million for a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace at the standard variable interest rate and an IDA Credit of SDR
48.7 million (US$67.0 million equivalent) for a term of 35 years including 10
years of grace at standard IDA terms. The Borrower would respectively be the
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit and the Arab Republic of
Egypt.
*:%9gt\agrmode\sar\=ster



- 52 -
Page 1 of 18
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Agricultural Sector Developments
A. Agriculture in the EgvDtian Economy
1.          The Egyptian economy has traditionally relied on the agriculture
sector as a source for growth, both in terms of contribution to GDP and
employment. This central role was reinforced by the strong performance of the
sector initiated by the reforms following the 1952 revolution, and further
supported by the completion of the High Aswan Dam in 1968, which allowed for a
significant increase in the cultivated area and provided assured perennial
irrigation to the entire Nile Valley and Delta areas.
2.          Mainly due to inappropriate macroeconomic and trade policies during
1970s, agricultural GDP growth which was 3.5 percent in the 1970s fell to 2.5
percent in the 1980s; and agriculture's role in national employment declined from
almost 50% to 35% during this period. The declining share of the sector in GDP
is also attributable to the relatively stronger growth in other sectors
(particularly,  oil,  and  also  services  and  construction).    The  sector,
nevertheless, remains important for the future growth of the economys
horticultural production having increased significantly over the last few years,
the sector continues to support agro-industrial growth in the country; the sector
is expected to lead the Government's efforts to achieve equitable and balanced
growth in the rural economy under recently adopted liberalization efforts.
3.          The modest overall performance during the last decade can be
attributed to policy distortions, disincentives inherent to a system of
administered prices, and the declining share of agriculture in total public
investments during the last 25 years. After separating out the cost of the High
Dam, agriculture's share of public investment declined from 14% in 1962-66, to
only 7% during the second plan period (1988-92). Furthermore, the Government
emphasized land reclamation programs within the agriculture sector, with a
concomitant bias towards it in the allocation of investment funds (about half of
the total funds earmarked for the agriculture sector were allocated to horizontal
expansion); however, despite the fact that these investments have so far failed
to generate returns on the scale expected from it.
4.           Since the mid-80s, the sector has clearly been at the forefront of
policy and institutional reforms.  Most of the reforms (particularly those
relating to crop area allocations, pricing, trading, etc.) have been carried out;
other institutional reforms (such as land tenure arrangements, creation of a
commodity exchange for cotton, etc.) are underway. Already, the gap between
domestic and world market prices for most commodities has been closed. Due to
the concurrent sharp decline in world market prices during this period, real



- 53 -
Page 2 of 18
domestic prices remained largely stable.   So far, the main benefit from
liberalization has been that farmers could flexibly respond to such yield to
maximize their benefit and income by changing cropping patterns as evidenced in
area increases of 58%, 12% and 4% for wheat, rice and maize respectively from
1985-90 (Table 1). The preliminary statistical data for 1992 shows a further
gain in area and yield in rice and wheat. Liberalization measures reinforced
technological progress in production and was instrumental in increasing wheat
production by 134%, rice by 28%, and maize by 34% over the same five-year period.
As a result, imports of wheat and wheat flour have declined in recent years, and
maize imports remained largely unchanged since the mid-1980s, in spite of a
rapidly growing population. At the same time, the berseem (clover) area declined
by 16% resulting from the relatively reduced profitability of livestock. Also,
these policy shifts witnessed an expansion in production of horticultural crops.
Table 1. Summarv of Area. Yield and Production Chanfes 1980-90
...0   15..19.9. 9                      8.1        19
g~~~~~~~~~W
Wjoat           1326  .89   14?      1.3  1    162 .   17.0.1 ..  x 
.1. ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~    ~. 6w  .                ,:'@11  9
B. Resource Biase
5.          On a per caput basis, Egypt's area of cultivable land at 0.13 feddan
per head is among the lowest in the world. Also, agriculture is almost entirely
dependent on irrigation from the Nile river, as the country has no effective
rainfall except in a narrow band along the northern coastal areas.   The
availability of reliable water supply from the High Aswan Dam is governed by the
existing water sharing agreement with Sudan, under which 55.5 BCM are allocated
to Egypt; availability of water represents the ultimate limiting factor on the
country's ability to expand agriculture horizontally. The pressing need is to
maximize the returns to water in an environmentally sound manner.   Still
potentially suitable soils for further development outside of the already



- 54 -
ANNE I
Page 3 of 18
cultivated areas do exist in Egypt; however, the ability of the nation to tap
this potential is wholly governed by the limitations on the water resources.
6.          The agricultural land base of Egypt totalling about 7.5 million
feddans, consists of some 7.3 million feddans (about 3.0 million ha) lying within
the Nile basin and delta, and about 200,000 feddans (80,000 ha) of agricultural
land elsewhere (rainfed and in oases). Of the total area in the Nile basin and
delta, some 5.4 million fed are "old" lands, and the remaining 1.9 million fed
are "new" lands, reclaimed since 1952. The NALR statistics shows that: (i) the
cultivated land increased by almost one million fed between 1982 and 1990; (ii)
the land under orchard almost doubled during this period; (iii) the number of
holdings increased by 18%; and (iv) the landless farmers increased more than that
of landholders, which indicates that land is increasingly operated by contract
and tenant farmers. However, with the continuing loss of agricultural lands to
village/urban encroachment, and given the limitation of water availability for
irrigated agriculture, the potential for significantly increasing the available
agricultural land base from its present level is limited. Consequently, future
growth in agricultural production will need to come from more efficient
utilization of the existing water and land resources.
7.          Egypt's agricultural land is, for the most part, highly productive
and ideally suited to intensive agriculture. With good climatic conditions,
including maximum sunlight and a perennial source of irrigation water,
agriculture is provided with excellent growing conditions, resulting in high crop
yields. The "Old Land" has generally fertile clay soils of recent alluvial
origin. New Lands (including Old New Lands) which comprise of reclaimed area
mostly calcarious sandy loam to silty clay loam soils with relatively low
inorganic content and micro-nutrients. Cropping intensities in the Old Land are
very high, at 200%, compared to the New Land intensities of around 150%. In
spite of intensive cultivation, potential exists to further increase agricultural
production and productivity through appropriate modernization schemes.
C. Farming Systems
8.          Clear variations in cropping pattern exist from the Delta to Upper
Egypt and within any given zone; the most significant difference is between the
Old Land and New Land. There are three cropping seasonss Winter (November to
May), Summer (April/May to October), and Nili (July/August to October). In the
Old Land, an elaborate crop rotation system is followed, the most representative
of which is shown in Figure 1. Rotations generally last three years and are
organized according to growing seasons. Most crops are grown both in the Delta
and Valley, with the exception of rice (Delta mainly) and sugar cane (Valley).
In the New Land, groundnut (sandy soils) and fruits and vegetables, are
particularly important. Table 1 shows that deregulation of crop area and price
controls has resulted in significant changes in the crop mix.
9.          The main winter crons are berseem, wheat and faba beans.  8erseem is
the major fodder crop, grown either over three months with only 2 cuts, as a soil
improver before cotton (short berseem), or over 6-7 months, either with 4-5 cuts



- 55 -
Page 4 of 18
or grazed by tethered cattle (long berseem). After rice, long berseem is dibbled
in the stubble, which avoids land preparation and extends the crop duration.
Wheat is a major winter crop and the area under wheat has been steadily rising
in recent years. Other minor winter crops are: barley, sugar beet, flax and
various grain legumes or pulses.
10.         Among the summer crops maize or sorghum, rice and cotton are
dominant. Maize is grown both as a staple and for fodder; it is replaced by
sorghum in the hotter areas of Upper Egypt. Rice is grown exclusively in the
Delta and some in Fayoum and is all transplanted. It is particularly grown in
the coastal areas. Cotton is the most important export crop of Egypt. Long and
extra-long staple varieties are grown, in which Egypt enjoys a dominant position
in world markets.  Due to low procurement prices, areas under cotton have
decreased from 1.6 m fed in 1970 to 0.8 m fed in 1992. Other, minor summer crops
are: soya beans, peanuts, sesame and sunflower.
11.         Other crops, such as tomatoes, potatoes, onions and garlic are
cultivated for most part in the year. Citrus and potatoes are successful export
crops; some vegetables are also exported. However, export is weakly organized;
while the European community is the most important market for cotton, rice and
vegetable exports, the East European countries have absorbed the bulk of citrus
exports.
12.         Yields  have  continually  expanded  during  the  past  decades,
particularly for wheat, maize and vegetables, through improvements in irrigation
and drainage, selection of variety and input use. Yields per hectare from the
old Lands are quite high by international standards, even when compared with
those of developed countries, as shown below:
Table 2. Comparison of Global CroM Yields
(in 1989)
Egypt            Developed            World
Countries           Average
................... (t/ha) ..................
Wheat                     5.0                2.5                2.4
Maize                     5.8                5.9                3.6
Rice (paddy)              6.5                5.8                3.5
Cotton (seed-             1.9                2.2                1.5
cotton)
Sugar cane                98                 72                 60
Broad beans               2.8                1.8                1.3
Tomatoes                  28                 34                 25
Source: FAO, 1990



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 18
13.         The high yields and cropping intensities however, do not apply to the
New Lands, where yields are mediocre to low, as shown below, and cropping
intensities are around 150 percent.
Table 3. ComDarison of Crop Yields Old-Nev Lands. New Lands and National
Average (tons/hectare)
Old-New Lands q/
New-new   National
1Farmer     Graduates     lands    Average
__________JSettlers  j                            1989
Wheat            3.3          2.5          2.3        5.0
maize            7.0          4.5          2.5        5.8
Berseeem          64           50           25        64
Tomatoes         17.5S        12.5        12.5       28.0
jj West Nubaria Agriculturat Intensification Project Prepration Report, FAO/CP, Rome, 1991.
yI Nission estimate.
14.         The low cropping intensity in the New Lands is partly attributable
to water shortages, which also affect yields. Other reasons include:
(1)   the lack of labor, resulting in insufficient crop care,
particularly weeding.  This affects chiefly graduates, who
depend mainly on hired labor as families are limited in size
or live in cities.
(2)   the lack of resources for recent settlers, compounded by
shortage of credit availability.    This translates  into
insufficient input use, particularly fertilizers.
Status of Crop Production and Agro-Processin_ Technoloties
15.         For sustained development, Egyptian agriculture needs continued
upgrading of its farm implements and adoption of proven technology. Pilot trials
in Egypt have shown that through the usage of appropriate technology in the
field, substantial increases in crop yield was realized with significant
reduction in the application of crop inputs. Recent poliries of free trade and
reduced market distortions have improved access to modern technology. This has
to be supported by a coordinated effort to upgrade technical advisory services
at the farm level, and to broaden the scope and depth of rural credit coverage
in order to quicken the pace of agricultural modernization and to increase
yields.



- 57 -
ANN
Page 6 of 18
D. Agricultural Support Services
16.        A_ricultural Research.  The Agricultural Research Center (ARC) of
MALR is the primary agency responsible for technology generation. ARC is headed
by a Director General who reports to the Minister through a board of directors,
and its mandate covers research both in crops and livestock. ARC consists of 17
research institutes, six central laboratories and ten Regional Research and
Extension Stations (RRESs) and 32 secondary research stations.  Research is
organized on a commodity basis with separate institutes for field crops,
horticulture,  cotton,  sugar,  livestock production and animal health.   In
addition, ARC has separate institutes to cover the following disciplines and
extension related services: soil and water, plant protection, plant pathology,
serum and vaccines, mechanization, and agricultural economics. Within MPWWR,
there is a Water Research Center, which comprises of 11 institutes and a training
center, that undertakes research in water resources/irrigation and drainage
aspects related to agriculture. In addition, the National Academy of Scientific
Research and Technology and National Research Center, under the Ministry of
Scientific Research and Technology, are also involved in agricultural research
through their specialized irrigation, food and agriculture divisions.   The
private sector is becoming involved in a limited way in agricultural research,
dealing with seeds, tissue culture, agro-chemicals and farm machineries.
Agricultural faculties in universities are also an essential part of the research
network.
17.         Recently, a major policy decision was taken to decentralize extension
and research activities by expanding the role of the RRESs and to strengthen
liaison and communication between the central research institutes and RRESs.
Accordingly, so far, seven centers have been upgraded and mobilized, each serving
two or more governorates.   Each regional station has its own director, a
coordinating board comprising of representatives from research, local
universities, agricultural and extension departments of the concerned
governorate, and some farmer leaders. The research activities in the stations
are largely based on plans provided by the research institute at the headquarter.
As such, the regional stations have limited flexibility to pursue independent
programs focused on regional stations problems. ARC has developed a number of
technology packages particularly in cereals, and some horticu'tural crops which
have been adopted by farmers with significant positive impact on crop yields.
Until now, research emphasis has largely been on traditional crops in the Nile
Delta and the Nile Valley (Old Lands), and limited attention has been paid to
provide suitable technologies to different categories of farmers in the reclaimed
New Lands or in dry lands.
18.         While Egypt has a large research network and staffed with qualified
scientists, its major weaknesses stem from overlapping responsibilities among
various institutions, lack of sufficient coordination between research and
extension, inadequate focus on production problems of different categories of
farmers, lack of economic assessment of various technical recommendations, and
shortage of support and operational funds. There is also a need for effective
decentralization of research in order to encourage regional stations to assume
more active role in planning research - extension programs in their regions.



- 58 -
ANN    I
Page 7 of 18
Agricultural research projects such as the Egyptian Major Cereal Improvement
Program (ENCIP), Rice Research and Training, Agricultural Development Systems,
Egyptian Water and Management Project, Agricultural Mechanization, Small Farmer
Production Program, Agricultural Production and Credit Project, the Irrigation
Management Systems Project and the National Agricultural Research Project,
supported by the USAID have been assisting ARC in addressing some of these issues
by developing multi-disciplinary research teams, reorienting and improving
facilities for on-farm research, and strengthening the Technology Transfer
Component (TTC) in order to establish a strong two-way links between research-
exteneion and farmers. At this stage of development, on-farm research has to be
supported to strengthen the technology generation capabilities of the reglonal
stations to enable them to produce menus of recommendations from which farmers
could choose most desirable ones. Following is a brief review of the research
institutes that the agricultural modernization project would depend on.
19.         The hgriculIural Entineering Research Institute (AERI) is the main
government organization responsible for conducting research in all phases of
agricultural machinery development, energy conservation, and the adaptation of
new technologies. The AERI has the added responsibility of evaluating newly-
developed and imported machinery and must evaluate the sultability of those
machines for use in the Egyptian farming sector.   In addition, two new
departments, one department for on farm-level water management and another for
agro-processing, were created in AERI in 1992; however, it will take sometime
before these departments become fully operational.   AERI's most significant
research activities at the present time focus on the development of rice
threshing and related harvesting equipment. These machines, are ideally suited
for local manufacture and will provide farmers with a practical solution to their
harvesting constraints.   AERI gencrally disseminates its findings through
establishing exhibitions, displays and demonstrations during field days.
20.         The Soil and Water Research Institute is dealing with research work
on plant nutrition, soil physical and chemical properties, irrigation agronomy,
and drainage. Some of the major research developments relating to on-farm water
management have been estimation of crop water requirements in principal crops,
study of quality of irrigation and drainage water, and the efficiency of reusing
drainage water in irrigation.
21.         The Agricultural Economics Research Institute has eight divisions and
85 senLor researchers. The research conducted by Production Economics, Commodity
Analysis, and Marketing Divisions have direct relevance to the kinds of price and
marketing information that the project intends to disseminate among farmers and
investors. These researches deal with cost of production in crops, the crop
supply and demand outlook, commodity prices forecast, and issues dealing with
agro-processing costs.
22.         The Food and Nutrition Research Institute has 160 researchers and 200
technicians. It is well equipped and has good pilot plant facilities that are
ideal for both product development and training. However, much of the pilot
plant equipment is too large for small enterprises and the institute is in need
of smaller, lower cost, alternatives more suited to the needs of the small scale
rural investors and micro-enterprises.



- 59 -
ANNEX-1
Page 8 of 18
23.         Agricultural Extension.  Agricultural extension at the national level
is directed by the Central Administration of Extension in the MALR. It is headed
by a First Undersecretary, who is assisted by an undersecretary and two
coordinators,  one in the Delta and one in Upper Egypt regions.   At the
governorate level, there are two functionaries: the Director of Agrarian Reform
Extension is serving farmers within area of his responsibility, and the Director
of Extension responsible for non-agrarian reform areas. Also, QARPAD provides
limited extension services for newly-reclaimed land. Several divisions of MALR,
particularly Pest Control, Horticulture, and Animal Production, have large
numbers of field staff who are also partially engaged in extension activities.
Generally, extension specialists for field crops, livestock, horticulture and
training are deployed in each district to supervise and support the Village
Extension Workers (VEW). At the village level, the VEW is assisted by two or
more extension assistants, generally one for each 200 fed.  Although, some
overlap of functions takes place among technical staff in the governorates, the
results of some pilot projects show that the major role for technology transfer
is played by the Technology Transfer Specialists (TTSs). They are trained by a
Subject Matter Specialist (S4S), stationed in the RRES.  TTSs work in close
collaboration with SMSs, and VEWs, and provide a two-way flow of information.
24.         Linkage between extension and research is in need of substantial
strengthening. It exists chiefly at the level of the RRES, and the Director of
Extension at the governorate level is a member of the Coordinating Board of the
RRES. However, in the chain of regional and village extension network, extension
support for agricultural mechanization and farm-level irrigation are particularly
weak and under-represented; no structure exists within the extension system to
provide intelligence report on marketing and output prices; and the agricultural
support services are much weaker in the New Land where services are generally
limited to specific areas covered by a few donor-financed projects.
E. Agricultural Farm Inputs
25.         Fertilizers.  Egyptian soils are poor in organic matter content and
available nitrogen, but contain average amounts of phosphorous and potassium; the
sandy and calcareous soils, particularly on the New Lands, are deficient in macro
and micro nutrients.   Some of these problems have been compounded by the
discontinuation of silt deposits after the construction of the high dam.
Therefore, there is relatively high fertilizer application under intensive
agriculture. Since 1990, subsidy on fertilizer has been gradually phased out and
at present, fertilizer is sold at market prices and more than 90% of fertilizer
is traded through private channels. The volume of fertilizer sale has dropped,
mainly due to more than three fold price rise during this period as a result of
elimination of fertilizer subsidies.
26.         Egypt has developed a fertilizer industry that can provide most of
its N and P requirements. Potassium fertilizers, which are imported, are seldom
used (9,000 t K20 in 1988), except on sandy and calcareous soils. Fertilizers
which are produced locally are in outmoded form, mainly flakes and run-of-pile
TSP and SSP, and distributed through broadcasting. The fertilizer technology



- 60 -
Page 9 of Is
used in Egypt is not keeping pace with the developments in developed countries.
This technological deficiency was recognized by UNIDO in 1985, resulting in the
establishment of the Egyptian Fertilizer Development Center (EFDC), with the
assistance of IFDC, Nuscle Shoals, Alabama.   Through EFDC, the   Egyptian
fertilizer industry would make available to the farmer a more diversified and
sophisticated choice of fertilizer types to help meet the demand for more
specialized fertilizers, while maximizing use of indigenous materials.   In
particular, the physical properties of the products would be improved to make
them more suitable for mechanical application and to prepare products tailored
to provide nutrients in a more timely basis in relation to the plant growth
needs. Combinations of nutrients (major and micro) will be developed which will
have definite advantages over the use of individual nutrients.
27.         Seeds.  Egypt's seed industry is well established and supported by
competent research. ARC is involved in developing/introducing of improved high
yielding varieties (HYVs), including production of breeder and foundation seed.
The Central Administration of Seeds (CAS) in MALR is also engaged in some seed
multiplication, treatment and distribution, as well as doing regulatory
functions; the Egyptian Agriculture Organization imports foreign seed, and also
owns seed cleaning and conditioning facilities which it makes available to the
private sector; the organization for Improvement of Egyptian Cotton supervise
cotton seed; and six private sector seed companies are involved in corn,
vegetable and forage crops seed production. Egypt also exports seeds, some 8,600
tons in 1989, but mainly clover from farmers' fields and yellow flint maize.
There are several new varieties of corn, wheat, soybean and rice in the research
pipeline with potentials for higher yields and shorter maturity time.
28.         In line with liberalization policy, the government has begun to
privatize seed multiplication industry and has lifted the government subsidy on
most of the seed. As such, the prices of seeds offered through government-
sponsored channels would rise and greater participation of private sector in seed
production and trade is expected in the future.   At the same time, the
government's responsibility in seed quality control functions would be
strengthened.
29.         Pesticides. Imports of pesticides which amounted to more than 30,000
tons per year in the mid-80s has dropped to less than 9,500 tons in crent years.
Pesticides applied to cotton represented the largest portion of imported
pesticides; the rest to rice, wheat, sorghum and fruits and vegetables. All
pesticides and active ingredients for local formulations are imported by some 30
licensed public and private companies. Repacking or formulation is done in five
public and one private enterprise registered with MALR and the Ministry of
Industry. A total of 350 pesticides have been approved by MALR for use in the
country. Following liberalization measures in 1989/90, any company could engage
in pesticide distribution if it is licensed by MALR and can provide professional
advice in all its retailing outlets by a hired qualified agronomist (BSc level).
The Central Laboratory for pesticides is responsible for control on quality of
all pesticides.



- 61 -
AM=I
Page 10 of 18
30.         To address the environmental concern regarding this, HADR, with the
assistance of some donors, such as GTZ, encourages a program of integrated peat
management, where the focus needs to be on interrupting the pest life cycle, use
of modern biological pest control, adoption of improved cultural practices and
judicious use of pesticides. These efforts, combined with the phasing out of
pesticide subsidy, have resulted in a steep decline in pesticide usage.
31.        Labor. Egypt would appear to be a classic case of a country with a
labor surplus. However, the rapid economic growth rate of the Middle East region
has influenced several closely-related changes in the workforce of rural Egypt,
particularly during the 1970s: (i) Unskilled laborers have joined the better
trained workers in emigrating to the neighboring oil countries to find work; (ii)
Laborers have left the rural areas to find more desirable employment in the
service and construction industries in the cities; (iii) The increase in
education programs in the rural areas has provided opportunities for graduates
to seek government employment in the population centers. A "labor shortage" was
claimed by the Government policymakers and farmers as they encountere'd peak labor
demands which could not be satisfied. To a certain level this labor shortage
stimulated agricultural mechanization across Egypt as tractcr power was use' for
tillage, threshing and irrigation to replace traditional animal draft technology
and manual labor. In spite of high degree of primary mechanization across Egypt,
the scarcity of farm labor is real as labor demand peaks during May-June and
September-October each year, when harvest, land preparation and planting follow
each other in continuous succession. During these periods, a labor shortage
exists in all farming areas and maintaining proper timeliness for field
operations becomes nearly impossible.
32.         flFjbjSr-.  Mechanization of agriculture expanded rapidly during
1970s.  Already in 1982, over 90% of land preparation was estimated to be
mechanized. There are about 40,000 tractors in Egypt and most of them between
50 to 70 h.p. The local NASOO tractor, produced under a license agreement with
Yugoslavia, has provided a cheap source of power; however, it has been affected
recently by the interruption of component supply from Yugoslavia. While tractor
and machinery from western countries is found to be too expensive for the
Egyptian market, equipment from various other sources including China, Russia and
Belarus, is becoming available at moderate prices. There is a growing market for
equipment.
33.        Egypt has quite an impressive variety of primary and secondary
equipment in its machinery inventory list (Table 1). Based on ABERI's estimate,
the demand for agricultural machinery in the next seven years iould expand by
about 10 percent per annum and the cost of this expansion plus replacing existing
machineries at the end of their service life (estimated to be 10 years) would
amount to about LE 832 million, in 1992 constant prices, per annum. Although
very few farmers own their machinery, most of those who own tractors provide
custom services to neighbors. The private custom hiring services, business is
increasing as liberalization in the economy has taken roots. The private custom
hiring services is supported by small village repair and maintenance workshops,
which provide fairly efficient services for primary mechanization equipment (land
preparation, transport, water lifting and threshing). The MALE operates some 90



- 62 -
ANNEX I
Page 11 of 18
mechanization centers and in addition AERI manages 8 mechanical centers which
also provide limited renting services. However, the publicly-sponsored services
are reducing rapidly as their fleet is ageing and as the agencies are pressured
to be cost effective and compete with more efficient private entrepreneurs in the
market.
34.         While  the  present  mechanization  system  offers  a  relatively
satisfactory level of basic services, it does not respond to the increasingly
demanding needs of Egyptian agriculture.   The choice of the implements for
primary mechanization is limited, and secondary mechanization which, beyond
relieving labor shortages at peak times, could improve yields, is progressing
slowly. The Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-EGT) succeeded in
opening up trading channels and private custom hire services to expand usage of
secondary and more versatile farm level technology; however, substantial
additional investments are deemed essential to ensure growth and expansion of
private entrepreneurs in custom service operation. To enhance their success rate
provision of training support, upgrading of extension messages and assistance to
farmers in making an educated choice in the selection and usage of appropriate
equipment are also needed.
35.         On-farm Water Use. Excessive use of water by farmers leads to water
logging which results in decreased yields, soil degradation, and increase
drainage problems. Therefore, water conservation and achievement of high on-farm
water use efficiency are major strategic objectives. However, presently, the
extension service has limited activities in these fields.
36.         In the Old Lands, mainly flood irrigation of small flat or furrowed
basins is practiced. Basins are of various sizes which are separated by dikes
or shallow surface drains and are generally not well levelled resulting in
overflooding of some parts, and substantial on-farm water losses.  Also some
losses occur between canals, which are generally unlined, and particularly in
basins lmasaasl, and farm gates. The main thrust of the project activities will
be on promoting precision land levelling with lasers.  It is reported that
levelling with lesser reduced water losses by 10-20% and increased yields by 10-
30% in limited areas where it has been practiced. Also, emphasis will be laid
on helping farmers improve basin design and irrigation scheduling, as well as
their knowledge and understanding of good on-farm water management practices.
In addition, farmers would be encouraged to form Water Users Association (WUA)
and undertake joint activities in improvement and maintenance of masaas.
Initiatives in this regard have been undertaken by the Ministry of Public Works
and Water Resources under the USAID--supported Irrigation Management Systems
Project. Extension activities will be needed to promote the use of pressurized
irrigation systems in the horticultural areas.
37.         In New Lands, although some flood irrigation is still practiced (Old
New Land), use of pressurized irrigation is more common.   These include
sprinklers, used in irrigation of traditional crops such as wheat, alfalfa, and
micro-irrigation used mainly for orchards and vegetable production. The major
problems encountered by the farmers in New Lands are unreliability of water



- 63 -
ANNEX I
Page 12 of 18
supply, some drainage problems, lack of credit, and inadequate training of
settlers in handling of irrigation equipment. Under the project, main emphasis
will be laid on training of settlers in the proper use and maintenance of
existing irrigation equipment, promoting installation of new units, encouraging
the use of fertigation where feasible, and improving access to credit. Special
attention will be paid to train a cadre of Technology Transfer Specialists (TTS)
in on-farm irrigation. Also research-extension capability in irrigation agronomy
would be strengthened by sending selected senior staff abroad for short-term
training.
38.         Market Information. Wholesale markets, and marketing operations are
generally not well developed in Egypt. Particularly, information on demand for
various agricultural crops for internal consumption and exports and projections
on production and market prices for outputs and inputs are inadequate. In the
absence of any guidance to farmers, they are unable to introduce changes in their
cropping systems in response to internal and external market needs. As a result,
they suffer sometimes from over-production (or lack of markets), resulting in
heavy post-harvest losses particularly in perishable crops.   For certain
horticultural crops, losses as high as 35% have been reported.   Under the
project, the Agricultural Economics Research Institute would be assigned the
responsibility to develop market information about agricultural products and
inputs, which will be passed on to the research-extension system, in a usable
form on a regular basis so that it could be disseminated to the farmers. For
this purpose, financing has been provided in the project to enable the institute
to strengthen their capacity in this field.  Also, training abroad will be
provided to two specialists to help adopt an effective program to collect and
disseminate market information in a timely manner. It is expected that market
information would help farmers to make more intelligent decisions regarding
choice of crops, area to be cultivated, and investments to be made, and thus
enable them to respond to market conditions. Also, market information will be
made accessible to private traders and agro-processors as required.
F. Agro-Based Industry Development
39.         Agricultural marketing channels in Egypt aret (i) traditional local
markets for products such as fruit and vegetable, milk, forage, pulses, and live
animals; and (ii) centrally organized supply channels for other products such as
cotton, rice, wheat, cane sugar. Food processing activities, including wheat and
rice milling, oilseeds crushing, cotton ginning, cane sugar extracting, and
starch processing are largely handled by State-owned enterprises. Few processing
factories have their own collection network. Allocation of imported raw or semi-
processed agricultural products to these factories is mostly handled by the
Ministry of Supply and Home Trade and the Ministry of Industry. State controlled
domestic marketing channels have long played a major role with mainly government
controlled cooperatives and PEDAC supplying enterprises.
40.         With the exception of cane sugar, Egyptian farmers have now the
freedom of choosing their trade channels. The pricing system for their products
is also benefiting from a major shift from purely administered pricing, to a
liberal pricing system. Already investment in agro-related industries has been



64 -
Page 13 of 18
thriving, and lending volume in this sector has more than doubled in the last two
years.
41.         At present,  little or no direct mechanism exists,  to provide
technical support or training to the rural-based small- and medium-scale agro-
enterprise sector. The Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI) of ARC
concentrates on applied research and development and has developed a number of
interesting products and processing equipment that could find application in
small scale plants.  However, FNRI does not have the institutional capacity to
disseminate its recommendations to investors. There are some 15 Universities in
Egypt that offer food science training.  These universities, like FNRI, have an
interesting portfolio of products that offer investment potential; however, so
far there are no channels to translate these findings into concrete investment
schemes. The Food Industries Corporation which acts as the holding company for
some 19 large parastatal food manufacturing companies does not have a direct role
in assisting small producers; nor does it have laboratories or other facilities
of its own.  Similarly, the extension service of MALR is yet to expand its
service to cover promotion of agro-based industries in Egypt; so far, its
function has been limited to providing some home economic services.
42.      A large number of small- and medium-scale farm-related enterprises are
in operation in Egypt. Most of them, however, developed on traditional methods
without much institutionalized technical support. Small farmers have for long
delivered part of their wheat and rice production to small local private millers.
There are about 3,700 small wheat mills. These are generally stone mills carved
in Egyptian quarries, and about 80% of them use diesel engines.  Flour and
semolina are used by two major types of industries: (i) the baking industry, with
a private ownership of about 85%; and (ii) the macaroni industry, with a private
ownership of more than 50% of the processing capacity. There are a number of
small privately-owned dairy, fruit and vegetable, and meat processing facilities.
With the liberalization of marketing and processing facilities, it is expected
that the demand for these small farm-related activities such as feedmills, rice
and wheat mills, packing houses, bakeries, dairy plants, farm supplies and
service depots, transportation and machinery services, and machine shops would
expand.
43.         In Egypt all enterprises have to register, and if foods are involved,
they have to obtain a Public Health Certificate also. Although, the regulations
for domestically consumed products are loosely applied, consumer safety is
becoming a matter of increasing concern. However, any products aimed at export
markets  have  to  meet  increasingly  stringent    standards  with  producers
demonstrating that "due diligence" procedures are in place.
0. Technical Components of the Project
44.         The fundamental objective of this component of the project is to
increase crop yields and enhance rural income through strengthening technical
advisory services in farm machinery, on-farm irrigation and water management,
market information and intelligence, and agro-based itdustries. In these
r



- 65 -
Page 14 of 18
specified areas, a network would be established to disseminate proven
technologies to the farmers and investors and to enhance investors technical and
marketing knowledge to enable them to make an informed decision on the type of
investment and choice of cropping pattern. In pursuit of this objective, on a
pilot basis, the project will work with three RRESs and their connected
governorate extension system to conduct its envisaged program. In these centers,
a subject matter specialist (SMS) in each of the four technical areas (i.e., on-
farm irrigation, agricultural mechanization, agro-industry and economics and
market information), will be identified to work with selected technology transfer
specialists (TTS). SMSs and TTSs would be given appropriate training both on-
the-job and in local training centers.  They would be provided office supplies,
transportation facilities, and incentive allowance to enable them to carry out
their duties. Similarly, Agro-Enterprise and the PBDAC's staff capacity will be
strengthened to facilitate credit services for medium and long-term investments
in agro-enterprise financing and on-farm investment promotion.
45.         The project's strategy is to promote utilization by small farmers of
proven technology, regardless of its source of origin. A hypothetical 10,000 fed
model for a selected number of field crops (Table 4) has been chosen for
contractors of custom machinery services to serve the small farmers. The package
includes use of additional farm equipment shown in Table 5. Based on research
findings and mission conclusions, adoption of the technologies specified in the
model would result in crop yield increases of at least 15%, and reduce the
present input requirement for seed and fertilizers by at least 10%.
46.         The SMSs for the project will be drawn from the concerned institutes
of the ARC, namely, Agricultural Engineering Research Institute (AERI),
Agricultural Economics Research Institute (AECRI), Soil and Water Research
Institute (SWRI), and Food Technology and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI).
They will work full time in the project. The staff will be selected based on
qualifications, relevant experience, and commitment to the program. Through the
project, new office space will be constructed in Sakha and Nubariya to house the
project staff; office equipment and furniture would be provided in all three
centers. As the center in Nubariya is in a poor state (laboratories without
equipment, buildings with major repair and rehabilitation needs, and research
staff without living quarters), the project would provide funds for
rehabilitating the center and will finance purchase of equipment for its soil and
water and pesticide laboratories.   In addition,  in this station a small
irrigation demonstration farm will be established.
47.         The main strategy for dissemination of improved technology under the
project would be taken through Extension Information and Demonstration Units
(EIDU).    Each EIDU is designed to serve 10,000 farmers and will have one
extensionist, and technology transfer specialists (TTS), one each in farm
mechanization, on-farm water management, agro-processing, and market information.
All these staff will be drawn from the existing cadre of extension services in
the governorate, and they will be carefully selected in order to ensure the
success of the program.   Minimum qualifications will be B.S.  degree in
agriculture. The extensionist, who will be the head of the EIDU, should have
long field experience ln management of extension programs.



- 66 -
ANN= I
Page 15 of 18
48.         Since EIDUs will be a pivotal point for extension activities, it is
important that they have adequate office accommodation and facllities for
farmers' visits, meetings, exhibitions, audio-virual programs, etc. The EIDU in
Nubariya region will, in addition, need resident kal accommodation as no private
or government accommodation is available at the sites.
B. Management. Programmingt Planning and Lmplementation
49.         overall responsibility for implementing the technical aspects will
rest with the Technical Deputy Director of the Project Management Department
(PMD). The Director General of the ARC, and the First Undersecretary (Extensionj
of MALR, together with the Undersecretary Extension, will work in close accord
with the Deputy Director. The Project Management Department will allocate funds,
monitor progress and receive reports from the pilot MRESs.
50.         Among SMSs, one will be chosen to serve as the team leader, and the
team will establish regular liaison and communication with the local
universities, private traders, machinery suppliers/operators and selected
farmers, as well as rural financing institutions in the region. Each specialist
will be responsible for identifying new technologies emanating from various
sources including government institutions, private sector and foreign
institutions. The SMSs will have the overall responsibility for formulating and
implementing technology transfer programs in their respective fields, in
collaboration with the Team Leaders and the TTSs in the EIDUs. Each SMS will
also train TTSs in their concerned fields. Administratively and operationally,
the SNSs will be directly linked to the Director General of the ARC through the
Director of the regional RRES. Team leaders will have direct access to the
Project Management Department (the Technical Deputy Director in the PMD)
concerning fund allocations, procurement, etc. The team leader will also manage
accounts and disburse funds to the EIDU for on-farm demonstration and other
activities. Each RRES will have needed support staff comprising of typist (1),
office help (1), technical assistants (2), accountant (1), and drivers (4).
51.         The extensionist will be responsible for managing the EIDU and the
field program, as well as preparing and handling audio-visual materials. He will
be the leader of the group.   TTSs in the four specialized fields will be
responsible  for  planning  and  implementing  programs  including  on-farm
demonstration with the support of specialists in the RRESs. Also VEWs will be
involved, and the participation of farmers, credit officers, custom hire
operators, machinery dealers/manufacturers and traders, including input
suppliers, will be mobilized.   Each unit will function as a part of the
governorate service under the overall direction of the Undersecretary of
Extension in MALR. Each EIDU will have support staff comprising of typist (1),
watchman (2), technical assistant (1), office help (1), and drivers (2). The
project will provide some funds to develop the market intelligence data needed
to be dispatched to pilot RRESs, who, in turn, would disseminate the information
promptly through the concerned TTSs, village banks and other channels, to
producers and investors.



- 67 -
Page 16 of 18
52.         The key element of program planning will be that it should be demand
driven and decentralized to the level of farming communities -- the
beneficiaries.    Accordingly,  the  TTS  in  each  EIDU  working  closely  in
collaboration with the VEW will identify specific problems and needs of the
farmers. Based on this information, the TTS in collaboration with SMS in the
RRES will formulate a three-year rolling program, which will be flexible to
accommodate changes in the light of experience gained. In this exercise, credit
officers at the district and village levels and private sector will be involved.
Farmers participation will be ensured through field visits and meetings in the
EIDUs. Annual work plan with definite targets will be followed. The TTSs will
also provide feedback to research or other organizations (such as import
suppliers, university faculty concerned, etc.) regarding problems which need
further investigation. The Team leader will be responsible for compiling the
program for the entire region. Before submitting the program to PMD, it will be
discussed in a workshop in which the extension staff, TTSs, SMSs farmers'
representatives, etc., will participate. Approved programs for the three regions
will be printed and distributed to all EIDUs.
53.         The project would promote collaborative team work among technical
services, especially in extension and rural banking. In order for rural banking
to respond to the dynamic and changing investment needs of agriculture, the
project would strengthen PBDAC's as well as other participating banks' capacity
in rural enterprise and on-farm-level investment. Different and multiple units
which are currently performing the same functions in this area within the PBDAC
would be consolidated in currently serving PBDAC in this area will be assemble
under two departments: (i) Agro-Related; and (ii) On-Farm Investment and
Promotion departments. Qualified and senior staff will be posted to head each
of these departments, and other key technical staff will be identified to assume
senior positions. Appropriate international and local experts would be financed
to support these departments in their works. These two departments would advise
the BDACs, branch banks, and village banks to provide specialized service to
their clients, and would foster among the rural banking, and technical research
and extension staff a collaborative work approach. A roster of consultants will
be compiled and made available to the participating banks as well as to
interested investors.   The training programs for upgrading staff skills in
project appraisal would be open to the staff of the PBDAC network as well as the
participating banks.
54.         The project's disbursement procedures for on-lending purposes would
follow the disbursement practices established under the Second Agricultural
Development Project (Ln. 2561-BGT). Accordingly, PBDAC and PBs would avail
proceeds of the project on the basis of a cash or credit option. In the case of
cash option, PBDAC would provide foreign exchange to qualified importers and
traders against an equivalent amount of local currency. Under the credit option,
PBDAC and PBs would provide credit to traders and importers by opening letters
of credit. The local funds generated through direct sale of foreign exchange
would be used for on-lending purposes to producers and investors. The project
would simplify PBDAC procedures concerning opening of letters of credit,
collateral, and down payment.   The on-going Second Agricultural Development
Project has already enabled the establishment of 83 local dealerships for
machinery manufacturers.   The project would enlarge the number of suppliers
further and promote strong competition and increased range of choices of
equipment for custome-hire operators and other beneficiaries.



- 68 -
ANX 1
Table 4
ARAB REPUBUC OF EGYPT                            Page 17 of 18
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZA11ON PROJECT
Estimated Incremental Machinery Requirements for 10,000 fd Model
Number of Unit  Price Per Unit   Total Cost
Reauired       On'000n LE)     n000 LE)
FARM MACHINERY
Laser Leveling Unit                         2            680             1360
Seed Dril                                  20              10             200
Fertilizer Drill                           20             8.8             176
Ridger Bodies for Tractor                  40             1.5             60
Ridger Bodies for Small Tractor
and Animal Draft                          40             0.5              20
4-Row Planter for Big Seed                  4              12             48
Inter Row Cultivator                       10             12             120
Small Multiple Crop Combine                10             20             200
Small Grain Reaper/Binder                  20              8              160
Rice Trans Planter                          1             35              35
Rice Combine                                1             80              80
Peanut Digger                             0.1            100              10
Suger Beet Planter                        0.1             20               2
Sugr Beet Topper                          0.1             30               3
Orchard Rotavator                           1              6               6
Small Tractor Loaders                       1             60              60
Post Hole DIger                             5              5              25
Rotary Tiller                              10             6.5             65
Smaill Tractor 25 HP                       10             22             220
Baler                                       2             40              80
Straw Chopper                               2              8              16
Hand Sprayer                              40               2              80
Motor Sprayer                               4             11              44
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT
Pressursed Pump System                     10             10             100
On-Farm Pipe                              250             3.3            825
Drainage Improvement                      250               1            250
636
SPARE PARTS
Tota                                                                     4881
*Assumed to be 15 % of machinery value.



- 69 -
AlNNE I
ARAB REPUSUC OF EGYPT                                      Table 5
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT                    Page 18 of 18
Estimated Annuad Machinery Requirments and Costs
Estmated    Estimated    Annual       ToW                          Annual Cost
Raems                  Machinery    Annual    Replacement   Annual   Unit Cost              ('000 LE)
Inventory    Additional    Number   Requremt
1,992  Requrement 10% 1993 nv             (LE)    Replacement Addtional     Totd
Tractor up to 26 HP'         4,637 -       837         547       1,384   22,000     12,043       18.414   30,7.
Tractor 50-70 HP            32,845        2,848      3,869       6.417   32,000    114,218       91,136   0.
Tractor 90 HP                1.169          46         121         167  150.000     18.075        6,900  447
Crawler Tractor 90 HP        1,159          46         121         167  200.000     24,100        9.200   33900
Chisel Plow                 30,703       3.276       3.398       6,674    2,600      8.495        8,190
Disk Harow                   2,354        1,412        377       1,789   20,000      7,532       28.240  t3,M72
Rklger 3-5 Row *              294        2,708         800       3,508    1,500      1.200        4,062       v
Smal Tractor Ridger0          500          900         140       1,040      550        77          495  sv 1,
Scrpef S-10 ft               4,708         942         565       1,507    5.000      2.825        4,710  VlZ635A
SeedDrlll-                    950           S0         100         150   10,000      1,000         500      j
Plnter 4 Row                  200          267          47        314   12.000        560         3,204   -S 4,74
Fertizer D ril                200          270          47         310    8,000       376         2,160 'l
Fertlizer Spreader            200          120          32        152    5.000        160          600
Manure spreader               200          120          32        152   25,000        800         3,000   8300
Inter-row Cuflivator'         192          115          31        146   12,000        368         t,380  ;
Sprayer 5-7 HP              12,610        1,812      1,442       3,254    8,000     11,638       14,496  2
Knapsack Sprayer 3-4 HP      5,200         260         548        806    2,000       1,092         S20
Hand Sprayer                 3,250         650         390       1,040     200         78          130
Pump Sets 5-12 HP          107,497      19,036      12,653      SI ,689    8,000    101,226     152.28  6
High Pessure Pump*            200          400          60        460    6,800        528         3,S20 A
Grtan Combine                 267           47          31         78  250,000       7,850       11,750
Grain Reaper                 2,500         250         275         525    8,000      2,200        2,000  < 20p
Thresher-winnower            7,712       1,458         917       2,375    8,000      7,338       11.664 6     < 
Agic-traRer                 17,819       1,636       1,948       3,582    8,000     15,564       13,068
eack Hoe                      190          151         34         185   20,000        682        3,020 2
Loader/Back-how                94          170         26         196   80,000       2.080       13,600
Subso,ler                     200          160          36         196   10,000       360         1,800  <.
RC" ryditcher                 100         10           28         208   25,000       700         4,500 
Laser Leveller Unit'           32            7          4           11  680,000      2,652        4,760     t
Potato Planter                 40          216          26        242    8,000        205        1,728
Poato DigWer                   30          106          14        120   20.000        272         2,120 7
Rice Transplanter-            480          438          92        530   35,000       3.213       15,330  -18,64i
Rice Combine-                 845           41          89        130   80,000       7,088        3,280
Baler'                        265           14          26         42   40,000       1,116         560  t-J.676
Peanut Di0ewCombine             8            2           1          3  100,000        100          200 :  i 300
Suger Beet Planter             57          103          16         119   20.000       320         2,060   '-2j380
Buger eet Topper*              14           54          7          61   30.000        204         1,620 I1M824
SugarCane Planedigger          47           53          10         63   20,000        200         1.060 41,260
Heavy Duty Plow              1,159          46        121         167   15,000       1,808         690    2,49
Suger Cane Culifvator          16           28          4          32   15,000         68          420      4066
Suger Cane Loader              13           47          6          53  100.000        600        4,700    5,30
SuMer Cane Harverter           13           47          6          S3   60,000        360        2,820    3,180
Rotary CultIvator'          4,637          873        651        1.424    6,000      3,6         5,238    8,644
Loader Small Tractor           60           48         11          59   60,000        648        2.880  2 3,526
PostHoledigger                250           10         26          36    5,000        1S0           50      180
Other Machineries                                                                                2,600    2,800
Total Cost                                                                         385,351     466,383  881,734
Sources: Agricultural Engineering Research Instaitu and Mission estimates
* TheBe machiner  identfed as essentiai for secondary mehniatio, and as ulch tey are used
In the 10,000 fed farm model.
- These incle a small number of secondary machbnes such as reaperhbinder. smal muaWple crop combine,
mraw clwpper ani etc which were not rcted in the AMRI's inventory data.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJEtt
Representative Cropeing featterns-In Egypt (Old Lands)
teer 1_X Fob                        4prLl       flay        Je.                   Auast   Sqptber  Octteober  Deceber
ill.l Dbeltc                                        .                                                  .  ]e
NotatonW th nie to
-- -
3et
21d  *_ .b._
lot
1si~~~~~a  t. _Ms*   I                       _               _       Y      m
otaion tt tt ioe                                                       to                                                       wheat
lot
2vA
----   <   llheVs  t.  9er@es* - . 1_ 1 § btisS | l, _ j, l                                          bereoc
32* .  ,_. _ote...                                                                                              _ __ _._
3rd _JB em|_zvw   
wir  -  -----r W -- 1- - z - Z s-- ..~~~~~~~~~-4
._.    I  :  '-1   1  r  '  I    I'        1          '~~ ~ ~~~           ~ ~ ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I .:   
2Z



- 71 -
ANNEX l
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
ARMB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Proposed Terms of Reference for ARro-Industrv Advisor
Objectives
1.       The key role of the advisor is to assist PBDAC to: (i) establish an
appropriate structure and mechanism for diversifying and expanding its lending
portfolio in small and medium scale agro-industry lending; and (ii) improve its
capability to carry out the technical evaluation of agro-industrial loan
applications and to provide an improved technical advisory service to clients.
Outmuts and Tasks
-   prepare a series of agro-industrial investment prospectus with
models of "workable' sub-projects;
-   prepare the agro-industrial section of a Project Proposal Manual
for use by Bank credit officers;
-   establish an information database of institutions, equipment,
packaging, etc;
-   assist PBDAC in preparing a roster of local and foreign consultant
specialists in agro-industry and rural enterprises;
-   assist PBDAC in preparing a list of relevant training, institutes
both locally and abroad and in developing training curriculum for
agro-industrial and rural enterprise lending;
-   assist in formulation and execution of the PBDAC's staff training
in agro-industry lending;
-   network with the SMSs in agro-industries in the Regional Research
and Extension Stations (RRESs) and assist them in formulation of
their training program and provide general guidance to Technology
Transfer   Specialists   (TTSs)   in   presenting   agro-industry
opportunities to potential investors; and
-   assist PBDAC and local consultants in the design and presentation
of agro-industrial investment promotion investment campaigns.
2.       In addition, the advisor would be required to liaise closely with
institutions in Egypt (ARC, RRESs Universities) and in other countries to
identify product and process opportunities and expertise.



- 72 -
ANNEX 
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
3.       The  advisor would  need to work closely with  senior PBDAC  and
participating banks' officials, and specialists in economics, environment,
marketing, etc.
Person Profile
4.       The ideal candidate would:
(a) Have a broad knowledge of food and crop processing in as many as
possible of the following areas:
-   animal feeds
-   milling
-   oil extraction
-   fruit and vegetable processing
-   dairy products
-   post harvest fresh fruit and vegetable handling
-   high value crops (medicinal plants, essential oils, etc.)
-   packaging
(b) Have a good institutional knowledge of sources of expertise and
information.
(c) Be able to work in a flexible way, to think laterally and have the
ability to motivate people from different disciplines in order to
form teams.
(d) Ability to communicate in Arabic desirable.



- 73 -
ANNME 2
Part A
Page 1 of 5
AgAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
The Rural Financial System
The Banking System
1.          The Banking system consists of 66 banks of which 4 are public
commercial banks, 23 are private joint venture commercial banks, 12 are business
and investment banks, 23 are foreign banks and 4 are specialized banks. The
banking system is dominated by commercial banks which account for 80% total
assets. The business and investment banks account for 13% while specialized
banks account for only 7% of total assets.   Commercial banks are the major
deposit takers accounting for 90.0% of total deposits. Business and investment
banks have loans and advances about equal to deposits. The specialized banks are
primarily lenders generating very limited deposits (Table 1).
Regulatorv Framework
2.          The banking law was amended in June 1992 to strengthen the regulation
of banks.   Several measures have since then been taken to improve both the
regulatory framework and the effectiveness of supervision of banks.   The
supervisory authority is vested on the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE).  The new
prudential regulations include: (a) a risk-based capital adequacy ratio, (b)
limitations on risk concentration, (c) foreign exchange exposure, and (d) loan
classification and provisioning for bad debts.
3.          Banks registered with the CBE are required to have a paid-up capital
of LE 50 million. Capital adequacy ratio is based on the guideline of the Basle
Committee of 8% equity to risk assets ratio. Those banks which do not meet this
level are given until December 1995 to comply with this requirement. Banks are
barred from lending more than 25% of their paid-up capital and reserves to a
single client as well as to the members of their boards of directors, auditors
and shareholders of their auditing firms. Foreign currency assets of banks
cannot exceed 105% of their foreign currency liabilities and vice versa.
4.          Assets and contingent liabilities of banks are classified as regular
and irregular.   Provisions of 1% have to be made for regular assets and
contingent  liabilities.    Irregular assets and contingent  liabilities are
classified as sub-standard (3-6 months in arrears) with 20% provision, doubtful
(6-12 months in arrears) with 50% provision, and bad (more than 12 months) with
100% provision. These provisions have to be established on a quarterly basis.
The banking law provides that public banks should be audited by the Central Audit
Organization. In addition, banks are required to appoint 2 private auditors
acceptable to the CBE.



74 -
ANNEX 2
Part A
Page 2 of 5
S.          Banks have to observe reserve requirements on deposits.  Reserves
equivalent to 15% of local currency djiposits should be kept in the form of non-
interest bearing balances with the '.8E in addition to an additional liquidity
ratio of 20% in the form of excess reserve balances, net interbank deposits,
treasury bills and commercial bills. For foreign currency deposits, the reserve
and liquidity ratios are 15% and 25%, respectively, both in the form of interest
bearing accounts.
Financial Performance
6.          Commercial banks (including investment and business banks) are facing
a weak credit demand because of macroeconomic conditions. After a long and
steady growth, the volume of lending took a downturn from LE 53.6 billion in 1991
to LE 50.6 billion to 1992. While total deposits continued to dramatically rise,
there has been a shift from lending to securities and investment. The value of
securities and investments have doubled every year for the last 2 years. These
accounted of almost a quarter of total assets in 1992. This could be explained
by attractive investments in high tax-free interest rates on risk-free treasury
bills.
7.          The nature of deposits also shifted from foreign currency to local
currency (Table 4). This may be explained by a stable exchange rate and the
large differential in interest earnings between foreign and local currency
deposits. Foreign currency deposits dropped from 55% of total deposits in 1991
to 41% in 1992. But despite the drop in foreign currency deposits, balances with
banks abroad rose in 1992.  With the excess liquidity in foreign currency,
commercial banks have resorted to extending foreign currency loans from 0.5-2.0%
above LIBOR. Dollar loans of 4-5% are not uncommon.
Share of the Agricultural Sector
8.          The share of the agricultural sector of the total loans outstanding
of the entire banking sector remained at a fairly low level of 6.7%. The total
amount of LE 5.0 billion of credit available to agriculture in 1992 was a slight
decline from the 1991 level. The specialized agriculture bank was still the
predominant source of agricultural credit accounting for 77.5% of total
availability in 1992. Commercial banks provided 19.2% of the credit available
although agriculture accounted for only 3.2% of their entire loan portfolio.
Commercial bank lending to agriculture showed a significant decline of 21.4% over
the past year.
9.          Deposits in the agricultural sector remained very limited. Reports
show that agriculture deposits amounted to only 0.6% of total deposits (Table 3).
Deposits held in agricultural banks amounted to only 1.8% of total deposits.
However, the reported deposits of the agriculture sector refer to agricultural
enterprises and does not include the household sector which account for 61% of
total  deposits.    Rural  deposits  held by the banking  system  should  be
significantly larger than indicated although information is not available.



- 75 -
Part A
Page 3 of 5
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
10.         PBDAC is the dominant financial institution in the rural areas.  It
is a government-owned bank. The network consists of 17 affiliated Banks for
Development and Agricultural Credit. The entire system operates 804 village
branches more popularly called village banks. There are an estimated 32,000
employees. It used to have a monopoly of the distribution of farm inputs and
operates an extensive network of warehouses. Under the economic liberalization
program, PBDAC is divesting its trading operation. It is now in the process of
transforming into a full-fledged rural financial institution.
Operating Performance
11.         The level of lending of PBDAC in 1992 declined marginally from the
level reached in 1991, primarily because of its divestiture of trading operation,
increase in interest rates, and the prevailing macroeconomic situation. Lending
is very highly concentrated in agricultural production; loans for agro-based
enterprises constitute a small proportion of total lending. Lending is geared
to short-term loans while medium- and long-term loans accounted for about one
quarter of total lending.   If PBDAC is to develop into an effective rural
financial intermediary, it will have to dramatically expand its lending for long-
term purposes and non-farm rural enterprises.
12.         PEDAC's operating costs are relatively high. Compared to commercial
banks, the high level of operating cost presents a problem to PBDAC with the
disappearance of non-interest income from trading.   There is also continued
dependence of PBDAC on external sources of funds both in the form of loans and
grants. The "subsidy dependence index" (SDI) of PBDAC is estimated to be about
42% in 1992.
Financial Condition
13.         The PBDAC is subjected to the same prudential regulations as all
other banks. It has met all the requirements imposed by the CBE. PBDAC is not
covered by the reserve deposit requirement which to considered as a monetary
instrument and not a prudential regulation.   While its exemption from this
requirement makes its cost of deposits to be lower, this advantage is offset by
the inability of P8DAC to accept demand deposits for which interest is not paid
and foreign currency deposits which bear very low interest rates. The PBDAC has
not been granted licenses for accepting demand deposits as well as for engaging
in foreign currency transactions.
14.         PBDAC has a slightly stronger equity position than commercial banks
with a special adequacy ratio of 18.3% as compared to 14.5% for the entire
commercial banking system in 1992 (Table 7). The equity position of PBDAC has
improved over the last 5 years but the increment has come from cash infusion from
grants and reserves. The paid-in capital of the government remains at 1I of
total assets.



- 76 -
ANNEX_ 2
Part A
Page 4 of 5
15.         PBDAC will eventually have to face the problem of its paid-up
capital. Its paid-up capital is LE 62 million which meets the requirement of one
bank The problem arises if this minimum capitalization is imposed on each of the
17 BDACs. There are advantages in providing BDACs greater autonomy particularly
in deposit mobilization, diversification of lending and competition with other
commercial bank branches. Imposing the same capital requirements on BDACs could
negate these possibilities. BDACs would either retain their legal personality
by merging BDACs into larger regional banks or be reduced into branches of a
centralized structure. An organization and management study ls proposed to shed
more light on this issue.
Informal Finance
16.         There are indications that there are informal savings arrangements
in the rural areas.   There are rotating savings groups as well as trusted
individuals who hold savings particularly from remittances from abroad. This
subject has not been studied in detail so that there is a dearth of information
in this subject.
17.         The limited information on the informal credit market seems to
indicate that such credit is primarily for the short-term. However, with the
divestiture of the trading operation of PBDAC, trade-related informal sources are
expected to become a more important source of production credit. The usual
practice is for traders to advance farm inputs in return for the delivery of
agricultural products. As farmers are not averse to the payment of interest, the
imputed interest rates from these informal arrangements could be significantly
higher than formal credit. Further studies are needed to gain greater insight
in the use of informal finance.
18.         The informal credit system is expec_ed to become a more significant
source of rural finance. The informal system may be expected to finance mainly
the short-term credit needs of the farm and the household. There is a need for
the development of village level rural financial institutions such as credit
unions and savings cooperatives to encourage savings on a semi-formal basis.
Issue of Level Playing Field
19.         The major players in the banking sector are all government owned.
All banks including PBDAC are required to meet the prudential regulations of the
CBE. While PBDAC is not subject to the reserve deposit requirement, it is unable
to generate current deposits and foreign exchange deposits. PBDAC is to some
extent dependent on subsidies primarily from capital grants. On the other
hand, the four largest public banks also enjoy some subsidies of an undetermined



- 77 -
ANNER 2
Part A
Page 5 of 5
amount.   The average cost of resources of PBDAC is higher as compared to
commercial banks. It has to deal with a clientele involving higher risk and
higher cost. By and large, it may be concluded that PBDAC does not enjoy any
special privilege which would provide it an unfair advantage.
20.         The eligibility of other banks to participate in the project would
be based on their full compliance to the prudential regulations of the CBE. The
CBE has agreed to Issue a certification in this regard. In addition, a minimum
financial performance criteria would be established subject to World Dank
approval.



AGGREATE BALAUCE SHEETS OF BlS IN EGYPT, 1989-1992
CLE Millton)
Commercial Banks               Business and Investment Banks           Secialtized Banks*
1989    1990    1991      1992    1989       1990      1991    1992   1989    1990    1991    1992
ASSETS
Cash                              840      600   1,192     1.259       94       145       153     172       2        3       7       61
Securities & investments        7,627    8,136  16,386    33,578      474       548       784   1,763     109      127     142       117
Balances with banks fn Egypt   14,960   17,699  26,919    26,230    3,341     3,594     3,507   2,679      47       68     232        82
Balances with banks abroad     12,755   16,108  24,303    29,887    5,081     5,759     8,486   6,309      41       60      55       196
Loans and advances             27,001   33,952  43,436    40,424    7.565    8,648    10,135   10,200   5,377    6.189   7,260    7,625
other assets                    7,434    9,048   2,894     7,910    1,811    2,081      2,447   2,472   1,856    2,266   2,973    3,902         -_
TOTAL ASSETS/LIABILITIES       70,617   86,443  120,13   139,288   18,366   20,755    25,513  23,595   7,432    8,713   10,66   11,983
LIABtLITIES
Equlty                          1,784    2,291   5,493     5,866    1.120    1,359      1,313   1,437     348      427     649      637
Provisions                      3,295    3,972   4,735     6,244    1,094    1.246      1.520    1,750    335      44S     604      728
Bond and bo"rowinos               191      205     212       274       29       34        48       73    715       935   1,117    1,369
Obtigatimns to hanks in Egypt   3,96S    S,867   8,869     8,141    4,511     5,933     8,116   6,791   3,312    3,474   4,037    4,079
Obtigatiens to banks abroad     4,89S    6,108   8,296     6,812    2,305     1,790     1,640    1,354     34        -       *         -
Total deposits                 U.8,871   59,629  81,6"    99,152    6,961     7,782     9,673    8,912   1,679    1,753   1,757    2,107
Other liabilities               7,616    8,371  10,877    12,799    2,346    2,631      3,203   3,278   1,009    1,679   2,505    3,063
*Inctudes PMOAC, 17 Governorate Banks, 2 Real Estate Banks, and Industrfal Oevetopmqnt Bank
Source: Central Bank of Egypt, Anual Report 1991-92
i



CREDIT BY SECTOR AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY, 1989-1992
(LE Zillion)
Cowmercial Banks and
Business & Investment Bank                             Specialized Banks*
1989     1990       1991       1992              1989       1990        1991       1992
TOTAL CREDIT                            34,566    42,600      53,571    50,624            5,377      6,189       7,260      7,625
BY DEBTOR SECTOR
Coverm oent sector                    5,240      7,492     11,230      5,023           1,363      1,541       1,711      1,897
Pubtic sector companies               8,964    11,816      14,911    16,160               21         13           5         12
Private business sector              17,288    19,859      22,998    23,557            3,792      4,417       5,307      5,442
Household sector                        995      1,183      1,487      2,204             199        217         236        274
Foreign sector                        2,079      2,250      2,945     3,680               2           1           1
BY TYPE OF ACTIVITY
Agriculture                             936      1,117      1,397      1,129           2,689      3,186       3,936      3,894
Industry                             11,955    14,375      18,361    19,015             741         835         903      1,042
Trade                                10,201    12,873      16,661    11,867              41           6           5          6
Services                              7,904    10,320      12,255    12,610            1,701      1,924       2,149      2,37n
Unclassified sectors                  3,570      3,915      4,897      6,003             205        236         265        311
*Includes PBDAC, 17 6overnorate Banks, 2 Real Estate Banks, and Industrial Development Bank
Source: Central Bank of Egypt, Anmuat Report 1991-92
r#A 3



DEPOSITS BY SECTOR AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY, 1989-1992
(LE Nillion)
Commercial Banks and
Business & Investment Bank                            Soecialized Banks;
1989     1990       1991       1992             1989       1990        1991      1992
TOTAL DEPOSITS                         55,832    67,411      91,321   108,064           1,679       1,753      1,757      2,137
BY CREDITOR SECTOR
Goverment sector                     S,033      5,958     10,373    15,634             491         452        237        237
Public sector companies              7,417      8,911     10,717    11,379                1          2          2          6
Private business sector              9,176    10,916    13,998    12,926               396         509        480        463                  1
OD
Household sector                    32,224    39,470    53,745    65,559               788         788      1,036       1,401 |
Foreign sector                       1,982      2,156      2,488      2,566              3           2          2
BY TYPE OF ACTIVITY
Agriculture                             501       401        597        542             198        261        246         196
Industry                             7,487      9,647     12,876    12,878             115         140        133        147
Trade                                4,606      5,566      6,526      4,971             74          97         89         102
Services                             6,336      7.372      9,904    11,409               9          11          11        18
Unclassffied sectors                 36,902    44,425    61,417    78,264             1,283      1,244       1,278      1,644
^Includes PBDAC, 17 Gwernorate Ranks, 2 Real Estate Banks, end Industrial Development Bank
Source: Central Bank of Egypt, Annual Report 1991-92
-.3



- 81 -
Part A
Tabtes 4 A 5
OEPOSITS Of COhEERCIAL BANKS AND BUSINESS AND INVESTMENT BANKS
BY MATURITY AND TYPE OF CURRENCY
(LE Nittion)
1989      1990       199t      1992
TOTAL DEPOSITS                       55.832    67L411    91.321   108.064
Current accounts                   9.957    11,873    14,138    21,290
Savings deposits                  39,922    48,872    68,848    79,766
Time deposits                      5,953      6.666      8,335      7,008
LOCAL CURRENCY DEPOSITS              25.118    30.807    36.111    61.027
Current accounts                   5,602      7,421      7,336     8,347
Savings deposits                  17,792    21,602    28,944    50,418
Time deposits                       1,724     1,964      1,831      2,262
FOREIGN CURRENCY DEPOSITS            30.7t4    36,604    53.210    47.03r
Current accounts                   4,355      4,632      6,802     6,813
Savings deposits                  22,130    27.270    39,904    35,478
Time deposits                      4,229      4,702      6,504      4,746
DEPOSITS OF SPECIALIZED BANKS BY MATURITY AND TYPE OF CURRENCY
(LE Niltion)
1989      1990       1991      1992
TOTAL DEPOSITS                        167        1.755      1.757    L2.10
WITH AGRICULTURE BANKS                 1.611     L.6A       1.66       1.8
Demand deposits                      833        907        648        596
Time and savings deposits            778        774      1,019      1,384
WITH REAL ESTATE BANKS                              1 4        38         36
De m    deposSts                       10         S         15          8
Time and savings deposits              14        19         23         28
WITH INDUSTRIAL DEVEL0PNENT              Ai         48         5
Demand deposits                        4          5          5         11
Time and savings deposits             40         43         47        80
*tnctudes PBDAC, 17 Governorete Banks, 2 Real Estate lanks, end Industrial Development Bank
Source: Central Bank of Egypt, Arnnal Report 1991.92



- 82 -
Part A
Tables 6 & 7
COMPARISON Of OPRATING PERFORMANCE OF PSAC AND COMMERCIAL BANKS
(percent)
Public   Joint Venture   Satt &          Foreign
PMDAC          Baiks        Banks    Nedium Banks.      Banks
(1992)         (1992)    (1986-90)    (1986-90)       (1986-90)
Oreratins asset ratio
X of average total assets)
Average cost of rescurces               7.83          6.98             na             na          no
Average on-tending rates               11.09          9.61             na             no          na
Interest mergin                         3.26          2.63           2.30          2.60         1.97
Von-interest Ineom                      4.43          1.71           1.54           1.46        1.92
Gross Income                            7.69          4.34           3.84          4.06         3.89
operating costs                         5.14          1.39             fm           1.7s          no
Provisions                              0.99          2.41             no           1.18          na
Total costs                             6.13          3.80           2.36           2.93        3.08
Returm  n assets CROA)                  1.56          0.54           1.48           1.13        0.81
oceratina income ratios
(percent of gross income)
Mon-interest inrcoe                    57.57          39.5           40.1           36.0        49.4
Total costs                            79.75          87.5           61.5          72.2         79.2
Profit ratio                           20.25          12.5           38.5           27.8        20.8
Oneratino ewitv ratios
(X of average equity)
Pre-tax nodmnal ROE                    14.44          12.7           24.4           i6.4        13.3
Pre-tax real R3E                       -4.15          -5.6            3.7           -3.0        -5.6
COWMPARISON OF FINANCIAL SOLVENCY OF PMAC AND CUUIERCIAL ANKS, 1992
(percent)
Public   All Coamrcial
POPAC          Banks        Banks
Loans to assets                         61.8          28.9           29.0
Irvestments to assets                    0.7          27.3           24.1
L + I to assets                         62.S          56.2           53.1
Provisions to assets                     S.S           5.1            4.5
Equity to loans                         11.3           4.1            4.2
P + E to loans                          16.8           9.1            8.7
Provisions to loans                      8.8          17.6           ISA4
Equity to loans                         18.3          14.0           14.5
P + E to loans                          27.1          31.6           29.9
Piovisfons to L + 1                      8.7           9.1            8.4
Equity to L+ 1                          18.1           7.2            7.9
P + E to L + I                          26.8          16.3           16.3
Sourees:  a) Central 8snk of Egypt Annuat Report 199t-92
b) Vittas. Dimitri and Asti Demircw-KLmt, Egypt: Financial Sector Reort. Banking Sector
dawary 1992.



- 83 -
ANNEX2a
Part A
Table 8
CiWMISD     FEA1UES OF PMDAC.         A ICI L SM AN DfER BABS
CHAPACTERISTICS                                    COMERCIAL BANKS
MPSAC                                              OTHER BANKS
1. Number of banks        The system consists of    4 public camrcial            35 investment and
PBOAC as the holdifng      banks and 23 private and   business banks
company and 1?             joint venture banks        (including foreign
affiliated provincial                                 banks) and 4
lDACs                                                 specialized banks
2. Branc  network          About 800 viltage baws    Located in urban areas       Located primarily in
located in rural areas     with the latrst having    urban areas
about 250 branches and
the smallest wCth only a
few branches
3. Capitat                 Paid-up by oovernment      Public banks by            Governrent and private
and capitat grants         goversnent nd private
banks by foreign and
local investors
4. Share of total          About 3K of total assets   Public sector banks         Investment and business
assets of sector                                    account for 56X and         banks about 15X and
other cmercial banks       other specialized banks
23K                        about 3X
5. Share of deposits       About 3X                   About 89X                  About 9%
6. Type of deposfts        All types of deposits      All types of deposits      All types of deposits,
except current accounts                               specialized banks with
limited deposits
7. Foreign currency        Hot allowed to engage in  All types of foreign        All types of foreign
transactions             foreign currency           transactfons               transactions for
transactions except                                    investment and business
3limted authority to                                  banks
open LC
8. Source of loan funds   About 49% from deposits.   Deposits exceed loans by   Deposits and other
35X from loans, 12K from  2:1                         sources
grants and 4K from
capital
9. Access to Central       Hone                       Hone                        gone
Bank borrowing
10. Type of lending       About 94% of loans are      Commercal loans, only      Lending to agriculture
for agricultural           2K going to agriculture    alsmost nil
production, providing      but provided 19K of
78M  to total loans to     total available credit
agriculture                to the sector
11. Lending risk           High risk because of       Low risk                   Low risk
natural risk and price
risk
12. Central Bank          SubJect to futt             Subject to fult            SubJect to full
prudential             compliance of prudential   coapliance of prudential   compliance of
regulations            regulations                regulations                prudential regulations
13. Isndutory reserve      Hot subject to reserve     SubJect to mandatory       Subject to mandatory
requirement            requirement en grounds     reserve requirements       reserve requirements
that it does not accept
current accounts
14. Taxes                 Subject to same taxes as   SubJect to taxes            Subject to taxes
all tbnks
15. Divfdends              Redmtted to the Ninistry   Remitted to the Ninistry   Remitted to the
of Finance                 of Finance for public     NUnistry of Finance for
banks                      publfc banks



ESAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUELIC OF EOYPT
AGRICULTURAL NOflERNZATfION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF INIEREST RATES ON PBDAC'S LOANS
5.1.87 1 5.15.89   As of   As of    As of    As of    As of    As of
to        to     1.3.91  7.1.91  10.1.91  3.1.92  10.1092   3.1.93
S .14.89   1.2.91
Agricultural & Agro-Processing
O"s
|- less than 1 year                   13        Is     .  . .  .    . . .  S E E       B ELO W........
- 1 year to 2 years                  14        16
- exceeding 2 years                  15        17
Short-Term Lending
- CiOpa                                                  15       16       16       17        16        15
- Horticulture                                           16       17       17       18        17        15
- Vegetables                                             17       18       18        19       18        15
- Sugarcane                                              -        16       16        17       16        15
Agricultural Investment Loans
(Short-Term and Medium-Term)
- Poultry                                                16       18       18       20        19        17         O
- Cattle                                                 17       18       18       20        19        17
- Farm-related business                                  18       19       19       21        19        17
- Pleh farming                                           -        -         -        -        20        18
- Improved irrigation                                    -        -         -        -        19        17
- Social fund                                            -        -         -        -        14        14
- Green house                                            19       19       19       21        19        17
- Frult trees                                            -        -         -       21        19        17
- Mechanization                                          17       19       19       21        18        16
- Agrlcultural marketing                                 18       19       19        21       19        17
Agricultural Investment Loans
(Long-Tem)
- Fruit trees                                            17       19       19        21       17        15
- Feed mill, cold storage                                17       19       19        21       19        17
- Livestock products                                     18       19       19        21       19        17
- Fruit processing                                       18       19       19        21       19        17
- Milk processing                                        19       19       19        21       19        17
- Tomato processing                                      19       19       19        21       19        17
- commercial loans                                       20       21       21        21       21        21
Source: PBDAC, Cairo.
Notes    Short-term - under 12 months.    Medium-term - 1-5 years.    Long-term - over S years.



- 85-
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 1 of 14
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
BUSINESS PLAN OF THE PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRCULTURAL CREDIT
fPQDAC)
intrxoducL2 n
1.   As economic liberalization of Egypt's agricultural sector
proceeds, the role of the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), a key institution in the sector, is
also undergoing transformation.
2.   The management of PBDAC, in reviewing operating results for
recen; years, recognizes that the liberalizing economic
environment wil_ pose significant challenges for its banking and
other operations.    After an impressive growth during recent
years, PBDAC found itself, in FY 1992, with a situation of
shrinking lending volume, with a slightly declining trading
income, but faced with a dramatic rise in interest expense, a
slightly weakening repayment performance, continued high
administrative cost in maintaining a large staff and the
reduction of subsidy payments from the government.
3.   PBDAC's financial viability is influenced by the interest
margin, which is the difference between the average lending rate
and the average cost of funds. Interest income from loans is the
largest revenue item, accounting for 65% of total revenues in FY
1992, reflecting an increase of 20% compared to FY 1988. Revenue
from trading continued to fall (due to the divestiture program )
from 28% in FY 1988 to 23% in FY 1992.  Interest expenses (cost
of funds) feature as the highest cost item, accounting for 56% of
total expenses, representing an increase of 15% compared to FY
1988.   Staff costs ranks next,  accounting for 30% of total
expenses including provision for possible loan losses in FY 1992
which seem rather high. Interest margin over the past five years
is illustrated below.
FY 1988   FY 1989   FY 1990   FY 1991   FY 1992
Average lending rate      15.4       16.5      16.7       16.4      17.0
Average cost-of funds      7.5        8.1       8.3       9.6       12.5
Interest margin            7.9       8.4        8.4       6.8        4.5



- 86 -
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 2 of 14
4.   While the trend is towards higher cost of funds, increasing
from 7.5% to 12.5% during FY 1988-1992, PBDAC's lending rate has
also, on average, increased from 15.4% to 17.0% during the same
period but not as fast.   The net effect is an increasingly
tighter squeeze on interest margin which declined from 7.9% to
4.5% over the same period.   The interest margin was further
eroded by an exceptional charge (LE 29 million) arising from
early retirement benefits charged to PBDACts profits in FY 1992.
This led to the weakening of PBDAC's financial performance as
measured by the key profitability ratio (pre-tax profit to
average total assets) which declined from a robust 4.7% in FY
1988 to a low of 1.5% in FY 1992.
5.   PBDAC  is presently  in the midst of  restructuring  its
operations, whereby trading and input distribution activities are
being phased out, and related subsidy income being discontinued.
Divestiture of input activities and associated organizational
changes are expected to be completed by 1995. During the past
year, the private sector has captured the market for import of
feed and a large portion of the market for fertilizer
distribution.    Input  subsidies  have  been  eliminated  for
fertilizers, and trading in agricultural inputs and outputs by
the private sector has increased significantly in recent months.
Marketing of fertilizer by the private sector generated effective
competition in the fertilizer market.   With the growth of the
private sector in marketing fertilizers, the volume of PBDAC's
fertilizer business declined substantially.
6.   The economic reform era presents PBDAC with expanded and
diversified business opportunities in areas such as trade
financing, financing of agro-processing and marketing, and
mobilization of rural savings.   Through its years of experience
in trading and credit activities, PBDAC has cultivated valuable
knowledge, sectorial linkages, physical facilities, and business
relationships in the rural areas to be in a better position to
tap this potential for diversifying its activities.
PBDAC's Medium-Teru Strategy
7.   The operations of PBDAC in the medium term therefore need
considerable attention with particular reference to its financial
viability. This core task needs to be complemented by measures
to strengthen organization and management of the institution,
measures for effectivre mobilization of rural savings, reduction
of staff costs, sy zems and procedures in order to improve
operational efficiency and competitiveness.   These changes must
be accompanied by appropriate human resources development,
including managerial, technical, and support staff, to develop a
full-fledged service operation. Finally, financial planning and
continual monitoring of financial performance need to be



- 87 -
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 3 of 14
emphasized:    development of  financial management  expertise,
definition of analytical  tools  and management  reports,  and
appropriate use of information systems need to be addressed.
8.   This package of measures is intended to be an integral part
of the bank's medium-term business plan; the plan specifies the
bank's strategy to improve profitability and competitiveness
through cutback of unprofitable services and activities,
introduction of new services and expansion of existing more
profitable services, and better cost control. The Business Plan
will be updated each year, and will include projections for the
coming five years.   In addition, the Business Plan will provide
details  of the PBDAC's operations,  including:   (i)  lending
targets, (ii) funding needs and resource mobilization strategy,
(iii) detailed financial statements, (iv) strategy for human
resources management, including assessment of manpower and
training needs, (v) management of physical resources, and (vi)
framework for improving financial viability of the bank and for
formulating operating policies and procedures.
9.   Financial projections, including assumptions, are included
as part of the Business Plan as Attachment I.  Projected growth
rates have been expressed in nominal terms. Historically, the
volume of PBDAC's lending has been limited by the availability of
funds tather than demand. Nevertheless, projections have been
made of resource requirements and resource availabilities based
on past trends. On this basis and assuming 0% real growth rate,
PBDAC projects an increase in deposits by LE 593 million during
the period FY 1993-97, and an increase in commercial bank
borrowings by LE 13 million over the same period, declining from
29% to 19% of the loan portfolio.   Projections also show that
PBDAC would be able to achieve its goal of utilizing outside
borrowings particularly from commercial banks (LE 1.2 billion) to
finance mainly seasonal crop production and short-term investment
loans (LE 2.0 billion). Provisions for possible loan losses as a
proportion of total loan outstanding are projected to increase
steadily from the current 8.8% in FY 1992 to 12% in FY 1997.
Income set aside to meet this contingency would be able to absorb
these losses even if the recovery rate is assumed to fall to 88%,
an unlikely event in the light of better loan appraisal and
improved recovery measures proposed under the project.   Even
under the  rose case scenario,  the projections  reveal  an
increasing size of net profit before taxes.
Critical Factors in Medium-erm Financial Performance
Resour-e tobiLiaion
10. Dp.osits. The main components of funding for PBDAC's lending
operations are deposits, advances from commercial banks, equity,
foreign loans, and capital grants. As of June 30, 1992, these



- 88 -                       ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 4 of 14
components together amounted to LE 4.6 billion of which 40% came
from deposits, 35% from borrowings from commercial banks, 10%
from capital grants, 9% from foreign loans and 6% from equity.
During the period FY 1988-92, deposits increased at an average
annual rate of about 15%, while borrowings from commercial banks
increased at an average annual rate of 9%.
11. As mentioned earlier, PBDAC's recent funding position
reflects the high cost of commercial bank advances.   As PBDAC
adapts to the changing interest rate environment and expands into
new businesses with different risk/reward characteristics,
management of funding cost is even more important.   Funding
strategy for the FY 1993-97 period features declining commercial
bank advances, a significant increase in deposit mobilization,
and significant increase in lendable equity sources, including
capital grants and foreign loans.  The new mix of funding in FY
1997 would consist of deposits (45%), borrowings from commercial
banks (21%), foreign loans (13%), equity (10%) and capital grants
(11%).    In order to reduce dependence on borrowings  from
commercial banks, it is essential for PBDAC to target deposit
growth at an average annual rate in excess of the inflation rate,
and incremental deposits to exceed resources mobilized from
foreign loans.  Projections assume a nominal growth of 7.3% per
annum and a real growth rate of 0% pfr annum.
12. As a development bank, but not eligible for CBE
accommodation, PBDAC does not open current accounts.   Financial
institutions are required to keep 15% of all deposits balances on
reserve with CBE at 0%; this regulation coupled with the
administrative costs of checking services increases the effective
cost of current accounts.   PBDAC, by comparison,  has a small
portion of demand deposits, with the bulk of deposit funding from
savings accounts, time deposits and CDs in the 12% to 14%
interest range; this presents PBDAC a competitive disadvantage in
funding.
13. While funds mobilized through rural savings often represent
a relatively low-cost, stable source of funding, the
administrative costs associated with deposit mobilization,
whether through more intensive use of staff time, increased
systems support, or upgraded facilities, must also be considered.
PBDAC needs to carefully assess and monitor the actual expenses
it incurs for deposit mobilization, factor this into the
effective cost of deposit funding, and modify its target for
deposit mobilization accordingly.
14. EqUgZZ.. PBDAC anticipates a significant equity infusion,
LE 200 mil,  from the government in FY 1994.   As a public
authority, equity infusion (i.e., a capital increase by budget
appropriation) is the only vehicle for recapitalization available
to the PBDAC (the parent company) in the medium to long run.



- 89 -
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 5 of 14
15. PBDAC is considering the possibility of a public share
offering to increase capital.   PBDAC has begun a valuation of
assets as an initial step for the potential share offering.   To
have a successful placement of the shares, it is necessary to
assure satisfactory restructuring of the selected BDACs.
16. The cost of internal transactions, used to distribute funds
throughout the PBDAC network, also merits attention. At present,
these transactions represent an additional spread in the cost of
funding to BDACs. The basis for competitive funding at the BDAC
or lower level (i.e., that those entities would obtain funds from
the regional/local financial institutions instead of from PBDAC)
has been explored on a pilot basis with a few selected BDACs.
Eventually, access to decentralized, competitive funding sources
may increase efficiency in provision of rural financial services
by BDACs.    The benefits  of  competitive  funding  include:
potential for reduced funding cost, and increased autonomy of
BDACs.
Loan Portfolio
17. PBDAC's total lending almost doubled from LE 2.3 billion in
FY 1988 to LE 4.4 billion million in FY 1991 but declined to LE
4.2 billion in FY 1992. A notable feature of the loan portfolio
is the growing share of medium-term loans which accounted for 22%
of total loan disbursement by PBDAC in FY 1992 compared to 18% in
FY 1988.
18. At the on-going rate of demand for farm-related business
loans, about LE 790 million would be added annually to the list
of projects. It is expected that this trend will continue in the
future and that PBDAC will further diversify its loan portfolio.
Financial projections indicate that disbursement of medium and
long-term loans would rise to 40% of the total loans by FY 1997.
With the delinking of input trading from PBDAC's lending program,
it is expected that crop loans would show only a modest nominal
growth of 6.2% per annum over the next five years. This would
allow PBDAC to devote greater attention to development lending, a
key function of the bank. Medium and long-term loans are
targeted to grow at an annual nominal rate of about 14% or real
rate of 6%. Overall loan disbursement growth is targeted at 7.3%
per annum, which indicates a growth rate of 0% in real terms.
Loan Recovery Performance
19. PBDAC's overall loan recovery rates have reached 92% in the
past, with short-term loan collections exceeding 90% and medium
and long-term loan collections averaging 84-86% during FY 1988-91
and 81% in FY 1992. PBDAC's loan provisions of LE 345 million as
at the end of June 1992 is 8.8% of the total loans outstanding.
Because of the divestiture of input trading and increasingly
higher risks in new lending areas, possible future loan losses



-90                             ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 6 of 14
are likely to be greater. To protect against such a situation,
it is intended that PDDAC will raise its provisions for loan
losset in stages rising from 10% in FY 1993 to 12% in FY 1997.
Required increases in loan provisions would require a modest
infusion of capital by GOE (para 14). This infusion will be of
no practical *2lue unless overdues of new loans can be reduced
allowing for a level of provisions compatible with the difference
between the average cost of funds and average rate of interest
earned. A number of measures to improve loan recovery have been
proposed; key elements of the plan in this re-ard are the
policies on loan classification and provisioning and suspension
of interest accruals, improved loan appraisal and supervision,
and effective staff training.
Contrql of Staff Cgsts
20. PBDAC's average return on lending in FY 1992 was 17% of the
average loan portfolio. After deducting 12.5% for cost of funds,
PBDAC is left with an interest spread of 4.5% for meeting
administrative costs, risk premium and profit. The exceptionally
good loan recovery in the past has minimized the scale of
provision for possible loan losses. However, the relatively high
staff costs have eroded profits. With the de-linking of input
trading, there is evidence of some delays in loan repayment,
exacerbated by higher risks in greater proportion of loan
portfolio in medium-term loans.   While loan recovery would be
strengthened, there is also a need to control staff costs.
21. PBDAC's staff costs, LT 249 mil in 1992, were 88% of total
administrative costs.    As divestiture of revenue-generating
operations proceeds, staff expenses must first be significantly
reduced, then stabilized at normal growth which permits adequate
operating margins. Given that the changes in PBDAC's operations
have been induced by changes in Government's economic strategy
and agreed with the donor community, PBDAC is not in a position
to fully absorb the cost of the large-scale redeployment. The
recent study of the personnel impact of PBDAC inputs divestiture,
completed in July 1992, explored the magnitude of staff reduction
required at PBDAC. The study identified a total 32,617 employees
in the PBDAC system and has proposed a significant reduction of
staff. The study also proposed alternative compensation packages
for a program of early retirement, presenting scenarios with cost
identified.
22. PBDAC's Board of Directors have recently approved a sum of
LE 106 million for early retirement of some 6860 employees,
distributed in 1992/93 (45%), 1993/94 (35%) and 1994/95 (20%).
To date, only about 1450 could be offered this benefit because of
lack of funding; this was financed from LE 29 million allocated
from the profits of FY 1992 to meet the early retirement
benefits. Additional funds will be sought from other sources to
keep to the schedule of targets. As banking will be the mainstay



- 91 -
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 7 of 14
of PBDAC's future operations,  further streamlining of  its
staffing will be necessary, and these costs will also need to be
funded.
23. with a target date of 1995 for completion of divestiture of
trading activities, PBDAC will consider alternative options in
order to select a viable approach for redeployment and
identification of funding sources.
Financial Policy and Targets
24. The viability of PBDAC in the changing financial environment
will depend upon its ability to maintain interest margin through
intermediation of funds and term transformation of assets and
liabilities.    While predicting future financial performance
through projections in this context involves uncertainty, it is a
necessary exercise. In this context, PBDAC will set indicative
targets or. major variables to guide its operations. An objective
of the policy would be to raise ';he ratio of interest earning
assets (loans) to at least 70% of total assets, raise interest
margin to at least 4.6% by FY 1997, increase pre-tax net profit
to a minimum of 1% on total average assets by June 30, 1997,
achieve and maintain a ratio of pre-tax profits to equity of at
least 8% by June 30, 1997, and to reduce and maintain operating
expenses that would not exceed 60% of P8DAC's net interest income
by June 1997.
Financial ReRorting
25. It is necessary, particularly under uncertain conditions, to
manage financial information closely and frequently to sup?ort
internal day-to-day decision-making. PBDAC can enhance its
financial policy and management by better stilizing existing
information systems, and by building up financial reporting
capabilities.    The  organization  has  made  progress  in
computerizing loan information, extending computer systems to
BDAC, branch and village bank levels (on a pilot basis), and in
adopting standardized financial statements for several levels in
the PBDAC system. PBDAC is also working with a consultant group
to develop and operationalize a cost accounting system. Plans
are underway to extend these initiatives throughout the PBDAC
system,  a process managed  jointly by PBDAC,  donors,  and
consultants.
26. PBDAC needs to develop accurate and concise financial
reports  for management.    Many such reports may readily be
developed using existing information.   In certain cases,  the
timeliness, accuracy, and completeness of financial data may
require attention. Because of the complexity of this task, it is
proposed that PBDAC initially focus attention on designing and
creating a handful of key reports. The topics to be addressed



- 92 --
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 8 of 14
are:   key indicators of finan=ial performance,  capacity to
analyze variance in operating and monitoring of asset quality,
and have recovery performance.
Management and Organizational Effectiveness
27. PBDAC's organizational structure requires reorientation and
strengthening, with the underlying cbjective of further
developing banking capabilities of the institution within the
framework of the economic reform program initiated by the
Government.   Several critical banking functions are not fully
developed in the PBDAC organization, including planning, credit
policy  and  supervision,  unified  management  information,
marketing,  asset and  liability management,  and operations
analysis.
28. An efficiency study would be carried out at the PBDAC, BOAC,
district branch, and village bank levels to review the present
organizational structure with a view to improving profitability
of banking business covering inter alia reorganization of
branches and village banks to eliminate loss centers, control of
expenses, revision of the branch network after careful assessment
of profitability and expansion of profitable banking services.
It would also include, inter ala, organizational and financial
analysis of rural banking operations and administration.   Among
the major activities would be an analysis of administrative costs
and personnel costs at each level of the organization. This data
would be used to assess the financial viability of business units
throughout the PBDAC system.
29. The study would assess and propose actions to strengthen
financial management which could be improved and
"operationalized" at every level of the organization.
Performance ratios would be calculated at each level, and would
be made part of the financial statements of each business unit,
treated as a profit center. The organizational efficiency study
would also review the effectiveness of measures to reduce payroll
costs. Among the actions currently conceived to reduce this cost
are retirement programs, retraining programs, and incentives for
employees to join the private sector. In order to rationalize
and, as necessary, expand PBDAC's extensive branch network,
guidelines for decision-making would be formulated, taking into
account the underlying objective of decentralization closer to
the point of contact with clients.
Staff Training
30. Most of PBDAC's staff would require formal training to allow
them to perform their functions in rclation to emerging loan
demand and new means to mobilize domestic deposits. Key areas
requiring priority attention are analysis of agro-processing
projects, sector risks, project implementation monitoring, review



- 93 -
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 9 of 14
and analysis of business operations particularly deposits
mobilization and financial management, and incorporating
environmental considerations within loan appraisal and monitoring
procedures.    PBDAC's management would need to address the
following points.
(a) re-training of some 2750 staff displaced from input
trading to be successfully absorbed into banking
operations.
(b) credit officers who are expected to follow-up loan
amortization should have adequate training in financial
analysis, market information and management, and should
be able to review operations with appropriate bias for
the critical success factors of the activity concerned.
Many of the credit officers possess such a craining or
suitable educational background. The requirements of
such trained officers would significantly increase as
the number of ne, applications for agro-processing or
farm-related business would become several times the
number under implementation. It is important therefore
to ensure that an adequate number of officers with
appropriate background are trained for the job.
(c) There are at present limited number of officers with
training in analysis of financial statements, review of
business performance and prospects, or the specific
technical or environmental skills necessary to ensure
the quality of agro-processing portfolio.   There is
need to augment the staffing of the relevant department
at PBDAC, and provide them with proper orientation and
training in supervising the work of credit officers and
follow-up loan amortization.
(d) The direct responsibility for monitoring implementation
and following up loan collections will be further
decentralized with adequately trained units in BDAC
offices.
31. In the light of the above considerations, the PBDAC will:
(a) make an assessment of the special manpower requirement
for loan supervision for a period of 5 years and
develop a program for selection of suitable officers
and for their training.
'b) review its systems and organizational and staffing
arrangements for the post sanction processes, and
initiate necessary changes.



-94-                            ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 10 of 14
(c) set up a training arrangement with a successful rural
credit institution in t;1e medium-term.   Exchanges of
managers between PBDAC and this institution would
provide a more valuable, practical form of training
than classroom instruction.
Audit of Financial Statements
32. An audit of financial statements at the PBDAC and BDAC
levels is necessary to more accurately reflect financial
condition and to simplify financial management.   At present,
funding decisions and performance measurement (for example, ratio
analysis involving total assets and liabilities! is distorted by
the large volume of illiquid account3 payable and receivable as
well as other debit and credit balances on the balance sheet. A
critical  component  of  the  reconciliation  of  accounts  is
identification of the source of these accounts, "matching' of
related asset and liability accounts, and adoption of a plan to
reduce the magnitude of these balance sheet accounts.
33. The above activities will involve independent external
auditors.  In each of the coming years, PBDAC will undertake an
independent external audit of financial statements in addition to
any existing (governmental) audit practices. A review of asset
quality is also needed, to determine whether PBDAC's current
level of provisions is sufficient, and to help establish
appropriate policies for provisioning and write-offs.
//o5>   / -   g  lw
/c~4 25(1 t\OArh



95 -                                          ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 11 of 14
ARAB REPUBLIC OF ECYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNTZATION PROJECT
OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN
Action                         Responsible             Timetable
Agency
A.  OPERATIONAL PSLICY AND PLANNING
1. Establish a portfolio management                    PBDAC         By June 1994
policy including guidelines for
provision for possible loan losses
(in accordance with the Central
Bank directives), loan appraisal,
monitoring, and recovery.
2. Submit to the Bank a business plan                  P8DAC         Annually, with first plan
setting forth details on nature and                               to be submitted prior to
composition of lending program,                                   negotiations
resource mobilization,
organizational and manpower mix and
requireraents and monitoring and
evaluation.
3. Maintain an interest rate policy                    PBDAC         Annually
which ensures the financial
viability of PBDAC.
B.   ORGANIZATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
1. Divestiture of trading activities                   PBDAC         Phase out by June 1996
2. Staffing                                            PBDAC         Finalize staff profile and
size by June 1995
3. Review organization and managrment                  PBDAC         Finalize study and
of head office BDACs, district                                    proposed action plan by
branches and village banks.                                       June 1994
4. Prepare schemes for staff reduction                 PBDAC         By March 1994, for first
and training for first two years of                               two years, by March 30.
project implementaton and provide                                 each year there after.
the plan for the years after.
5. Implement training scbemes                          PBDAC         Annually according to
agreed schemes



-96-                                             ARqNEX 2
Part B
Page 12 of 14
C.   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS
1. Maintain PBDAC-s capital (including                   GOE          Continuously after June
reserves) at a minimum of 10% of                                   1994
net loans (after loan provisioning)
2. Review internal audit system                         PBDAC         By June 1997
3. Undertake external audit in                          PBDAC         Annually
addition to audit by CAO, and
submit long-form audit report to
the Bank
4. Submit to the Bank a fnancial plan                   PBDAC         By June 1994
with annual targets leading to:
(a)   Achieving and maintaining
a pre-tax return of at
least 1% on total average
assets by June 30, 1997;
(b)   Achieving and maintaining
a ratio of pre-tax profits
to networth of at least 8%
by June 30, 1997;
(c)   Achieving and maintaining
interest-bearing assets to
total assets of at least
70% by June 30, 1997; and
(d)  Reducing and maintaining
operating expenses that
would not exceed 60% of
PBDAC's net interest
income by June 30, 1997
D. RESOURCE MOBELIZATION
1. Strategy for deposit mobilization                    PBDAC         By June 1994
2. Improve deposit mobilization at a                    PBDAC         Annually
rate in excess of the tate of
inflation



- 97 -
ANNEX 2
Part B
E.   OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES                                                    Page 13 of 14
1. Prepare credit and portfolio                         PBDAC          By June 1994
management manual and obtain Board
approval
2. Reconcile inter-branch. inter-bIank                   PBDAC         By December 1994
accounts (outstanding for over 6
months) and other assets and
liabilities accounts
F    INFORMATION AND REPORTING SYSTEM
1. Review accounting and computer                       PBDAC          By June 1994
system
2. Review, update and implement                          PBDAC         By June 1994
appropriate Management In.ormation
System
3. Reporting of loan recovery and                        PBDAC         By June 1995
ageing of arrears, in accordance
with prescribed guidelines
G.   STUDIES
1. Unertake Rural Financial Market Study                PBDAC          By June 1995
2. Review and update Deposit Mobilization Study          PBDAC         By June 1995



- 98 -
ANNEX 2
Part B
Page 14 of 14
Sample Format of Age Analysis of Overdue Loans
No. of    Amount of  Percent of      ... Overdues ...
Loans      Loans      Overdues    Principal     Interest
Amount       Amount
1. Loans Overdue by:
-    0-90 days
-    91-180 days
-    181-365 days
-    t-2 years
-    Over 2 years
Total Overdue Loans
2. Loans Outstanding but
Excluding Overdue Loans
3. Total Loans Outstanding
(I +2)



STAFF APPRAISAL RBPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC Of EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODIRNIZATION PRaO7ECT
THE PRINCIPAL BANK POR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
FINANCIAL PROLECTIMCWs FY S3 - FY 97
(LB million)
BALANCE SHEET
ITEM                ACM"                                                                                               PROJECTIOUS             I  CAGR    OAt;R
BASIS OF PROJBCTIOS3               ------  (----------------------- -ikninal)  (Resl1
6/30/92 5                                                                          6/30/93 4/30/94 6/30/95 6/30/96 6/30/97 | FY 92-97 PF  92-97
cashsi                                                                                                                                                       I
on hand                            20.0  24 of CuOrent and Savings Accounta                                           22.0   24.0   25.s   26.9   26 3             7.2t   -0.24
Due from bank.                    164.0  Reduced to LB 0So  il. and stabillsed                                        SO.0   S0.0   so5o    so.0   50.0          -21.1%   -26.54
184.0                                                                               72.0   74.0    75.5   76.9   78.3         -15.7t  -21.S   6
Financial tnveostments
Shares and investments             10.0  Increased annually by LB 16 oil. for 3 years                                 26.0   42.0   58.0   56.0   58.0           42.1%    32.4%
Government bonds                   32.0  ScabiltSed                                                                   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0             O.Ot    .6.6%
42.0                                                                               50.0 o 74.0   90.0   90.0   90.0           16. 5t    8.5t
loans                                      Overall disbursements growth at rate of inflation.
Short-term                       1566.0  Disburseoent ratio (Short-term t Medium and long-terml reachea             2043.0  2126.7 2105.4  2131.1  2148.9          6.2t   .1.0%
Medium-term and Long-term        2319.0  60:40 in Fn 97.                                                            2239.2  2604.1  3242.3  3852.1  440B.0        13 74     S S1
...  __ Recov ery ratea t Short-term   an91  Medium-term and Long-term t 92%.      ------------ --------------..___._---___
Total Loan                       3907.0                                                                             4283.0  4730.7  5347.7  5953.2  556.5        38.9%    3.3%
Proviaione for loan losses        345.0  Proportion of loans outstanding :10%. 10.5%  11%, Il.S% and 12%            426.3  4S6.7  500.2  608.1  3$6 0           17.9%     9.9%
in the five years respectively                                            .....       ---__ _ _ _             .
NMt Loans                        3S62.0                                                                             3804.7  42I4.0  4759.5  5295.1  5770.1       10.1%     2.6t
Accounts Receivable
Government accounts               409.0  Reduced annunlly by Li 100 il. for 3 yea. and br IB SO mil. ther after   389.0  299.0  189.0   139.0   *9.0 j   -20.9t   -33.71
Other Accounts Receivable        1016.0 Reduced annually by Lt 100 oil. for 3 years and by LB SO ml. thereafter   916.0   016.0   716.0   666.0   616.0          -9.%   -15.7%
1505.0                                                                             1305.0  1OS.0   90S.0  605.0  705.0        -14.1%   -19.9%
Inventory                          595.0  Auleal realization in the sae proportion as reduction of                     4 416.5   297.5  176.5   59.5    0.0          NA       BA
non-banking activities i.e.. 301, 204, 20%4  20  and 10% of base year    i
Fixed asoets                         85.0  AdditionS of 10% annually, depreciation of 5t annually                       09.3   93.7   90.4  103.   1009.S           5.0%    -2.2%
TOTAl. ASSETS                      5973.0                                                                             579S.4  5070.2  6106.9  6429.0  6751.8        2.5%    -4.5S
........                                                                           ............ .. .--.- .........-. ----.........
.d
I- pe
go
6*'0
to  -t



STAFF APPP.AT8A REPORT
lAMA REPUBLC OF BGY*1T
AGRtICUITURAL MDDURZIIZATtON PROMCT
THE PRINCIPAL BANK FOM  EVEWW4EW  AND AGEICUIX.URAL, CREDIT
FINANCIAL PROOECIrIONS, FY 93 - FY 97
(La million)
BAL%NCE SHEET
ITEM               I CULPnoJEriows                                                                                                               Icum         cmn
BASIS OP PRWECTIo*s                             ..................                        (NomIta1I  (Real)
6(3/92                                                                             4/30/93 6/30/94 gt3O/9S $/I30/96 6/30/91   rYF 92-97 FT 92-97
-- - - - - -- - - - --- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -   -- - - - - -- - - - - ---- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Deposits                                   Grow~th at rate of Inflation
Cusrrent                          39S.0                                                                               437.3   470.8  508.0  536.0  562.0            7.3Il    0.0%t
Fixed time dleposits              640.0                                                                               700.5  77S.8  823.1   660.4   913.0           7.3%     0.0%
CDs                               247.0                                                                               162.7  178.2  189.1  199.S   209.4 I          7.3%k    0.0%
Savings                           597.0                                                                               660.9  723.?  767.8  010.0  050.5             7.3%     0.0%
Others                             07.0                                                                                96.3   105.5   111.9   110.0   123.9         7.30     0.0%
1866.0                                                                             2065.7  2261.9  2399.9  2531.9  2454.5         7.3%      0.0%
Due to cosmercial banks            1628.0  Supplosmatal funding (Balancing figure)                                     1249.9   955.7  1043.2  1172.7  1263.2        -4.9%   -11.4%    o
local loans                           8.0  Stabilixed                                                                     8.0     8.0     0.0     8.0      0.0        0.0%    -6.8%k
Foreign loans (Current projects)    424.0  Incrseaed annually by LB S0 oil.                                             474.0  S24.0  574.0  624.0  674.0             9.7%     2.2%
Agricultural Modernization loan            increased by $0 mil. in FTY 95. $10 oil. In TY 96. $20 .i1. In PT 97           0.0     0.0   26.7   60.0  126.7             Rh       NA
432.0                                                                               402.0  532.0  400.7  692.0  000.7            13.4%     5.6%
Accounts payableI
Govt. and other orgjanizations    217.0  Reduced annvl~ly by LB S0 isil. for 3 years                                  167.0  111.0   67.0   67.0   67.0           -20.9%   -a6.3*
Other accounts payable           1104.0  Reduced annually by LB 100 tail. for 3 years and by LB 50 mail.             1004.0  904.0  005.3  759.4  710.3            -8.2%   - 14. 5%
thereafters Increased bY Interest accrued on Agr. Mod, loan
Net profit due HOF                 11.0  oividlendS due are paid and balance is zero                                    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    -100.0%   *140.0k
13 2.0                                                                             1171.0  1021.0  072.3   626.4   785.3        -10.0%   -16.2%
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  528.                                                                                4960.S 4770.6  4924.0  5222.9  SS15.6          1.0%   -5.9%
Capital                              62.0  increased by Lit 200 million In FY 94                                         62.0   262.0   262.0   262.0   262.0 1      33.4%    24.3%
Reserves                            209.0  rncreased by amounts transferrad to reserves from current income             220.9   2S1.7   216.9   300.9   330.2         9.6%     2.1%
APP and SFPP capital grants         444.0  Increased by LU3 108 .1l. in FT 93. and by LU SO tail, in FY 94 and          544.0   594.0   644.0   644.0   644.0         7. 7%    0.4%k
FT 95
TOTAL EQUITY                        715.0                                                                               826.9  1107.7  1182.9  1206.9  1236.2        11.6%     3.9%
TOTA  LIABILI?IES AND EQUITY       5973.0                                                                              57545832606.9  6429.0  $671.9                  2.5%    -4.5%
.......  .......I...... . ....                    2
0
Sh
Po 0



STAFFT APPRtAISAL REPORT
ARA RUPgULIC OF IGYPr
AGRICULTURAL HODRAIhIATOI PRW.YET
THU PRINCtPAL BANK FPR DUVULOHRII AID AGRIMUTURAL CRW11T
FINANIAL PRO.JErCIONs, PT 93 - FT 97
ILE million)
incGIU STATEMen
ITEM                 ACTUAL                                             ~o Is ONS                                                               I  CAG'       .=R
I                          BAB~~~~~~~~~~sis OF PROJECIONS                                          ----------- (Nominal)  (Real)
6/30192                                                                           16/30/93 6/30/94 6/30/96 6/30/96 6/30/97 I 1992-91   1992-07
Interest on .credit 
Short-term loans                  151.9  Projected Interest rates applied to overage outst:andings                 I272.4   319.0  27. 0   247.8   237.50           9.49     1.99
Medium and lon-term lbane         456.6                                                                            I387.4   418.9  435.6   406.5   541.0            3L4    -3.79
interest Subsidy                   63.9  Lit 46 oll, In FY 93 and LU 23 nsil. In FT 94 (Hio subsidies after Dec.93)    46.0   23.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    -100.09  -100.09
674.4                                                                              705.9   761.0   708.S   733.0   778.6         2.99    -4.19
Blanking services and fees           12.4  Encreased animally by 10%                                                     13.6   IS. 0    16.5S   16.2   20.          10.09     2.596
Income from investments               3.6  Same as Interest on credit                                                     2.0     2.6     3.3     3.6      3.        17.69     9.69
Other Income                          7.6  Increased annully by 5t                                                        8.0     8.4     8.8     9.2      9.S. 0%    -2.29
TOTAL R5VENUR  FROM BANKIN          969.0                                                                               729.5  767.0  737.1  764.C    1.              3.19t   -399
lIon-banking activities             219.0  Reduced in the proportion of 109, 20%. 20%t, 209 and 109 of base year        153.3   109.5    65.7    21.9      0.0         phN      PA 0
Prior year adjustment                26.6
TOTAL RUVUNRS                       943. 6                                                                              662.S   996.5  802.8   786.7   01.            3.0%t   -9.69
RXPRNBS
.n.eres  epne.                        Projected interest rates applied to average outstandings.e*
Deposits               j 194~~~~~I.9                                                                         226.1   233.7  104.1  165.2   1583           *.19 -06
Commercial banks                  243.9                                                                               194.3   1S2.2  106.9  107.5  110.           -14.5%   -20.39
foreign Loana(current projects)    36.8                                                                                53.9    59.9   65.9    71.9    77.. .       16.8%     8.89t
Agricultural M4dernizatLon loan                                                                                         o.o     0.0     1.3     4.1      IAq         NA       ph
SMaros                              1.4                                                                                 1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     11         -4.494  -10.9%
476.0                                                                              47S.A  446.9  361.3  349.8   357.  1          S..6%   .12.09
Personnwl Costas
Salaries                          245.7  rncreseed annually by 59; Planned normal and early retirement considered        . i  251.2  244.1  240.2   242.9          -0.59    .7 'J
Rarly Retirement compenation       29.0  120 months basic aalsry(25%  of total salary) to early retiring es,poyaeea    '10    44.2    36.1    21.7      0.0 I-190.09  -10- ~%
Lesx: Grant                              1009 of early retirement compensation                                         0.   44.        361    21.7      0.0          NA       NA
j277.7                                                                            1_255_.1  2532.2  244.1  24'0.:2  242.9-        -2.6%    -9.39
Provision for Loan losses            60.0  Amount required to arrive at provisions as propoztion of loans               83.3   68.4    91.5   99.5    90.8          10.59     2.99
I   outstanding ratio of 10%. 10.5%, 11, 11.S% end 129                        I 
Other expenses                       35.2 jReaeting to banking activities (25) increased annually by St                  27.7   22.9    16.1    13.3    11.2        -20.49   -25.99
Relating to non-banking activities (759) reduced In same orogortion
ise income tro mnn-banking activities 
TOTAL EXPRNSRS  840.9                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~641.4  789.4   715.1  701.3   709.9  -3.59   -10.19
etg
i-0 m



STAPP APPAAISM. REPORT
MARA MIUDLIC OF EGypT
AGRXCVL11JRA  NODSIZATION PROJBC7
EGYPT AGRICULTMRAL IWBMIZATIO16 PROJECT
T163 PAINCI PAL, W  POt DEVELOPN4II AND AGItICULTURAL CREDIT
FUIAICIAL PRWRCTIONS, IY 93 - T 97
(LE million)
INCOIN STATEMENT
ITEMl                ACTUAL IPR1OJECTIONIS                                                                                                         ICAGR        CAGA
DASIS OP PROJSCTION4S                            ----------------------  (Raminol)  (3ia1)
16/30/92 I                                                                           6/30/93 6/31/94 4/30/95 6/30/96 6/30/97   1992-97   1992-97
116c014 BEFOItS TAXES                94.7                                                                                 41.3   107.1    67.7    03.S   102.0          I-St5   .S.4%
..... .                                                                              ...........   ...........
Taxes                                63842.St of income before taxes                                                       17,6    45.6    37.3    3S.S    43.3 j      -7.4%   -13.3.%
NET? flCTW4 AFTE  TAXES               30.9                                                                                23.8    61.6      04     4.       58.6       13.7*      S.9t
Appropriation:                                                                                                                                                                           0
Transfer to Reserves                14.4  So% of net profit after taxes                                                 11.9    30.8    2S.2    24.0    29.3 I       165.3%     1.4%   I'
Dividendo to MOP'                   10.7  Salance proflt after transfer to reserves                                     11.19   30.0    2S.2   24.0    29.3 I        22.3%    14.0%
Others                               5.8I                                                                                                                          -100.0%  -X00.0%
30.9    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 138                       61.6    6.      4.      58.6        13.17%    S. 9%
--------                                           ................   ......................  ~
40



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIIZATION PROJECT
THE PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS, FY 93 - FY 97
(LE milihon)
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
PROJECTIONS
I 6/30/93    6/30/94    6/30/9S    6/30/96    6/30/97
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                       |
Net Profit                                                    23.8       61.6       50.4       48.0       S8.6
Add: Depreciation                                              4.3        4.5        4.7        4.9        5.2
Less: Dividends                                        |      11.9       3.8       25.2       24.0       29.3
Cash profits retained                                       16.1       35.2       29.9       28.9       34.5
Repayment of loans                                          3
short-term                                                3032.1     3481.8     3533.2     3536.9     3573.2
Medium-term and Long-term                                 1242.4     1162.8     1252.8     1527.8     1838.2
4274.5    4644.6   4785.9        5064.7     5411.4
Increase in Deposits
Current                                                     42.3       41.5       29.2       27.9       26.8
Fixed time deposits                                         68.5       67.3       47.3       45.3       43.4
CDg                                                          S 15.7    15.5       10.9       10.4       10.0
8avings                                                     63.9       62.8       44.1       42.2       40.5
Others                                                       9.3        9.1        6.4        6.2        5.9
199.7      196.2      138.0      -32.0      126.6
Increase / (Decrease) in Borrowings
Foreign Loans (Current projects)                            50.0       50.0       50.0       SO.0       50.0
Agricultural Modernization loan                      |       0.0        0.0       26.7       33.3       66.7
Commercial Banks                                     |    (378.1)    (294.2)      87.5      129.5       90.5
I--- -  _._______-____    ___-_____-_ -____-____-_
I    (328.1)    (244.2)    i64.2       212.8      207.2
Capital Grants : APCP and SFPP                         j    100.0        SO.0       50.0        0.0        0.0
Capital                                                        0.0      200.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Other Sources
Increase in Provisions                                      83.3       68.4       91.5       99.8       98.8
Decrease in accounts receivable                            200.0      200.0      200.0      100.0      100.0
Decrease in Inventory                                      178.5      119.0      119.0      119.0       59.5                    00
461.8      387.4      410.5      318.8      258.3
OT E72.0       5269.3-57.-----------77-------------.2- 9 -                  O.
TOTAL souces                                                4  47240   5269.3     SS5?8.5    5757.2    6037.9                     aX O
........ 0.......... 0 ..................................                        to



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TBlE PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMEN,T AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
PINANCIAL PROJECTIONS, FY 93 - PY 97
(LE million)
FUNDS PLOW STATEMENT
PROJECTIONS
6/30/93   6/30/94    6/30/95    6/30/96    6/30/97
APPLICATION OP FUNDS
Loans disbursed
Short-term                                               3487.9     3564.6     3511.9    3562.6     3591.1
Medium-term and Long-term                                1162.6     1527.7     1891.0    2137.5     2394.0
J  -  - - -  - -  - -  -  -   -  - -  - -  -  - -  -
I   4650.5     5092.3    5402.9      5700.1    S985.1
Other applications                                    I                                                                                        0
Decrease in Accounts Payable                              161.0     160.0      148.7       45.9       41.1                                   SS
Increase /(decrease) in cash and due from banks          (112.0)      2.1        1.S        1.4        1.3                                    1
Increase in financial investments                   |      16.0      16.0       16.0
Purchase of fixed assets                                     8.5     8.9        9.4        9.8       10.3
I_---------------- ----------------- -----------------
73.5      177.0     175.6       57.1       62.8
I__ --- - ________ --- --- --- ---__ - ---    ________
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                         4724.0     5269.3    5578.5     5757.2     6037.9
eQ
00
o t-w M



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS, PY 93 - FY 97
RATIO ANALYSIS
PROJECTIONS
6/30/93    6/30/94    6/30/95    6/30/96    6/30/97
PROFITABILITY                                             I
--I
Total Revenues / Average total assets                     |     15.00%      15.36%      13.40%     12.55%      12.32%
Interest revenues / Average total assets                  |     12.00%      13.04t     11.82t      11.71%      11.81%
Interest expenses / Average total assets                         8.08%       7.66%      6.03*       5.58%       5.42t
Net interest income / Average total ajsets                |      3.92%       s.38%       5.79%      6.13%       6.40*
Non-interest income / Average total assets                |      3.01%       2.32%       1.57&      0.84%       0.50t
Total operating expenses / Average total assets           |      4.81%       4.70%       4.38%      4.04t       3.86%
Staff expenses / Average total assets                     |      4.33%       4.30%      4.07%       3.83%       3.68t
RETURNS
ROA:Pre-tax profit / Average total assets                        0.70%       1.83%       1.46%      1.33%       1.55%
ROE:Pre-tax profit / Average Equity                              5.36%      11.07t       7.66t      6.99%       8.35%
INTERMEDIATION MARGIN                                     |
Interest income from loans / Average total                      17.24%      16.88%     14.06%      12.95%      12.42%
loans outstanding
Interest expense / Average interest payable liabilities         12.31%      11.84%      9.26t       8.28%       7.82%
Net inter.iediation margin                                       4.93%       5.04%       4.80%      4.67%       4.59%
STAFFING EFFICIENCY
Pre-tax profit / Average Staff (LE)                       |    1113.6      3075.1     2722.7      2766.2      3507.7
Pre-tax profit / Staff costs                                    16.20%      42.62t     35.94*      34.77%      41.99t
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY                            |
Capital / Risk-adjusted assets                                  14.16%      18.25%      18.29%     17.42%      16.73%
Liquid assets / Total assets                                     2.24t       2.52t      2.71t       2.60t       2.49t
Loans (Interest earning assets) / Total assets            |     73.90%      80.48%      87.57t     93.05%      97.11%
Loans / Deposits                                          I   207.34%    209.1S%    222.83t    236.31%    246.64%
ASSET QUALITY
Provisions / Loans                                              10.00t      10.50%     11.00t      11.50t      12.00t
Annual provision / Loans outstanding                             1.94%       1.45t       1.71%      1.67%       1.51%
Izt 



- 106 -
ANNEX 2
Part C
Page 1 of 7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX OF PBDAC!L
Methodology
1.    The SDI coiputations for PBDAC are given in page 4.   In the SDI
computations, subsidies have been imputed tos
(i)   Concessional borrowings
(ii) Equity invested in PBDAC
(iii) Exemption from reserve requirement on deposits
Direct interest subsidy received by PBDAC has also been considered. The profit
earned by PBDAC is deducted from the total subsidy to arrive at the adjusted
subsidy. The adjusted subsidy is compared with the interest income earned by
PBDAC to determine the SDI.
2.    The market rate of interest for PBDAC has been computed by adding a risk
premium of 1% to the 6 month Treasury Bill rate. While the actual Treasury Bill
rates have been used for FY91 and FY92, the projected Treasury Bill rates
(provided by Country Operations Division) have been used for FY93 to FY97. For
FY90, for which there is no Treasury Bill rate (since the rate was controlled),
the rate of FY91 has been used.
SDI AnalXsis
3.    PBDAC's SDI shows a declining trend over time as can be seen from the table
below. This is also graphically illustrated in Graph 1. The SDI declines from
54.1% in FY90 to 12.9% in FY97. The marginal increase in SDI from FY92 to FY93
is due to the decline in profits in FY93.
SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX OF PBDAC
I            r        Actual         I                Projected
FY 90   FY 91   FY 92  FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97
Subsidy      54.1%   52.7%   42.2%   43.2%   24.9%   20.5%   17.4%   12.9%
Dependence
Index
1/    For details on SDI see Yaron: Assessinc Develonment Finance Institutions
: A Public Interest Analysis, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 174, 1992



- 107 -
ANNEX 2
Part C
Page 2 of 7
Components of SDI
4.    The table below shows the movement of different components of the numerator
of the SDI over time. This has also been graphically illustrated in Graph 2.
COMPONENTS OF SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX
(Amounts in LE million)
Actual                           Projected
FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96    FY 97
Subsidy      28.9    34.0    45.9    28.5    14.5        1.0    -5.4      -9.2
on con.
borrowing |
Subsidy     93.5    108.4   137.7   141.4   144.1   138.7   131.3    127.5
on Equity                                                                       l
Direct      112.0   109.0    63.9    46.0    23.0        0.0     0.0       0.0
int. sub.
Subsidy     129.5   152.7   103.2   103.1    95.5    86.3    83.4         84.0
on Res.
exemption                            __
TOTAL       363.9   404.1   350.7   319.0   277.1   226.0   209.3    202.4
SUBSIDY
Profit      150.6   143.5    92.8    34.3    93.2    80.7    81.9    102.0
bef. tax
(Banking)
'ADJUSTED    213.3   260.6 1257.9   284.7   183.9   145.3   127.4    100.4
SUBSIDY~~~~~~~~afet
S.    The SDI for PBDAC is largely influenced by three factors:
(i)   The market rate of interest which affects the imputed subsidy on
concessional borrowing, on equity, and on reserve exemption.
(ii) Direct interest subsidy
(iii) Profit earned
6.    The declining SDI results from declining imputed subsidies, elimination of
direct interest subsidy and increased profits. Total subsidy declines from LE
363.9 million in FY90 to LE 202.4 million in FY97. Profit before tax initially
declines from LE 150.6 million in FY90 to LE 34.3 million in FY93, but increases
gradually to LE 102.0 million in FY97. Declining imputed subsidies result from
declining market rate of interest (thus resulting in lower imputed subsidy on
concessional borrowings, on equity, and on reserve exemption).



- 108 -
ANNEX 2
Part C
Page 3 of 7
SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX                                COMPONENTS OF SUBSIDY
FY 90 - FY 97                                         FY 90 - FY 97
80                                                       m sub. an _urmI    C  Sub. an S uty
.Dr-ct at,L ab.  90 Sub an am
S0       \                                              L8 SDlhn
500
20 
100
410 -0t l'1j:g:                                                          0
o}     l                       I     I100                   .            I    I            
1090   91   92   93          9    go   97               90 192              94  95  9   97
=--ACTUAL--   ------PROJECTED--------
Graph 1                                               Graph 2



-109-                                       ANNEX 2
Part C
Page 4 of 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL NODERMIZATION PROJECT
SUBSIDY DEPENDENCE INDEX FOR PBDAC
...... .......... ._... .... ............................................................................................
......ACTUAL .              ---     ----- PROJECTED.
ITEM                Unit   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92    FY 93   FY 94    FY 95    FY 96   FY 97
Market Rate of Interest 1/                  19.5X   19.1X   21.0X   18.3X   14.91    12.1X   11.01    10.4X
Avg. Cost - Concess1Onal Funds 21            4.1t    7.6X    9.2X   12.01   12.01   11.91   11.81   11.71
Average Concessional Borrowings  LE NIL   188.0   295.0   389.5   449.0   499.0   562.3   642.3   742.3
Subsidy on Borrowings            LE WiL    28.9    34.0    45.9    28.5    14.5          1.1    -5. 1    -9.4
Average Equity 3/                LE Nil    480.5   567.0   656.0   770.9   967.3  1145.3  1194.9  1221.6
Subsidy on Equity                LE Nil    93.5   108.5   137.6   141.4   144.1   138.6   131.4   127.S
Direct Interest Subsidies        LE Nil    112.0   109.0    63.9    46.0    23.0         0.0      0.0     0.0
Subsidy on Reserve ExemptIon 4/  LE NiL   129.5   152.9   103.1   103.1    95.5    86.2    83.5    84.0
Total Subsidy 5/                 LE NiL   363.9   404.5   350.5   319.0   277.0   2Z5.9   209.8   202.2
Profit before Tax 6/             LE NIl    251.02.0     0   123.7    41.3   107.1    87.7    83.5   t02.0
Percent Share of Banking Operation          60.01   70.01   75.0X   83.0X   87.01   92.01   98.01  100.01
Profit Attributed to Banking     LE Nil   150.6   143.5    92.8    34.3    93.2    80.7    81.8   102.0
Interest Income                  LE Hil   394.0   495.0   610.5   659.8   738.0   708.5   733.8   M.6
Subsidy Dependence Index                    54.11   52.71   42.21   43.21   24.91   20.51    17.41    12.9X
Average Total Loans              LE Nil  3037.5  3682.5  3961.5  4095.0  4506.9  5039.2  5665.4  6270.0
Average Lending Rate                        13.01   13.4X   15.4X   16.11   16.41    14.11   13.01    12.41
Increase in Lending Rate Reqd. 7/            7.0X    7.11    6.51      7.01    4.11    2.91       2.3X    1.6X
Lowest Sustainable Interest Rate            20.01   20.51   21.91   23.11   20.51    16.91    15.21    14.0X
1/ 6-month treasury bill rate is used as the base rate for short-term funds. An additional margin of 21 is added to
derive the base rate for medium-term and long-term funds. An altowance of 1X towards risk premium has been added
to the base rate to derive the market rate of interest. The market rate of interest is a weighted average of
rates for short-term and medium and long-term funds, with weights being the proportion of short-term loans and
medium and long-term loans at the begiming of the year.
For FY90, when there was no issue of treasury bills, the rate for FY 91 is used.
2/ Consists only of foreign loans.
3/ Equity includes paid up share capital, reserves and capital grants.
4/ Reserve requirements were 251 upto December 1991, and 151 thereafter.
5/ Total subsidy is a sum of concessions which PMDAC receives from
access to funds at below market interest rates, foregone inonme on
equity imputed at market rate of return, direct interest subsidies
and implicit subsidy resulting from exeption of PIDAC from
reserve requirements.
6/ Profit before tax for FY 92 includes LE 29.0 million extraordinary expense
(early retirement compensation) added back
T/ Although dependence on subsidies can be reduced by other methods (eq.
cutting costs such as administrative costs), increasing interest
income is used for convenience.



- 110 -
AMNE 2
Part C
Page 5 of 7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICLTURAIL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS : FY93 - FY97
Income Statement
1.          Interest Income    The following laterest rates were applied to
average loans outstanding. Rates for FY93 were based on actual rates prevailing.
FY93        FY94 to FY97
dShort-term loans           16%   Treasury Bill + 3%
Medium-term and long-       18%   Treasury Bill + St
term loans
The interest rates mentioned above were reduced by 1% for FY93 and
by 0.5% for FY94 to reflect the lower lending rate due to subsidized lending.
2.          Direct Interest Subsidy.   Direct interest subsidies are being
discontinued from January 1, 1994. For FY93, the annualized amount of subsidy
actually received upto March 31, 1993 was considered.  Subsidy for FY94 was
assumed at the same level as that for FY93, but for half of the year.
3.          Interest Ex_enses.  The following interest rates were applied to
average balances of borrowings.  Rates for FY93 were based on actual rates
prevailing.
FY 93       FY 94 to FY 97
Deposits (Average)        11.5%   Treasury Bill - 2%
Commercial Bank           13.5%  Treasury Bill + 1%
borrowings
Foreign loans (Current   12.0%   12.0%
projects)
Agricultural               9.5%    9.5%
Modernization loan
Local loans               14. 0%   14.0%
4.          Income from non-banking  activities.   Income  from non-banking
activities were assumed at 70%, 50%, 30%, 10% and 0% of FY92 (base year) figures
in the five years respectively.
5.          Personnel Expenses. Personnel expenses were increased by 5% annually
to take into account annual increments. PBDAC'  planned retrenchment program to



- 111 -
Part C
Page 6 of 7
eliminate excess staff due to divestiture of non-banking operations (through
normal retirement and early retirement) was considered. Normal retirement was
based on number of employees acheduled to retire. 6854 employees are targeted
for early retirement of which 1410 actually retired in FY93. The balance wert
projected to retire in the proportion 45%, 35% and 20% in FY94, FY95 and FY96.
6.          Early Retirement Comoensation. Early retirement compensation at 120
months basic salary (which is 25% of total salary) to employees retiring early
was assumed. Grants equivalent to 100% of early retirement compensation was
assumed.
7.          Provision for loan losses.  The charge to the income statement stoa
an amount required to make the provisions balance equsal to 10%, 10.5%, 11%, 11.5%
and 12% of loans outstanding in the five years respectively.
Balance Sheet - Assets
8.          Loans.   Loans disbursed was projected to grow at the rate of
inflation (i.e., zero real growth rate). The proportion of short-term loans was
projected at 75%, 70%, 65%, 62.5% and 60% of total loans disbursed in the five
years respectively.  Loan recovery rate (Collections / Current dues + Past
overdues) was assumed at 82% for medium-term and long-term loans and at 91% for
short-term loans. Short-term loans were assumed to be repaid in the proportion
of 50% in the year of disburs emnt and 50% in the next year.  Medium-term and
long-term loans are assumed to be repaid in the proportion of 10% in the year of
disbursement, 30% in first year after disbursement, 30% in second year after
disbursement, and 30% in third year after disbursement.
9.          Inventory.   Inventory was assumed to be realized in the sae
proportion as reduction of non-banking income.
Balance Sheet - Liabilities and Equity
10.         Degosits.  Deposits were assumed to grow at the rate of inflation
(i.e., zero real growth rate).
11.         Foreian loans.  Additions to foreign loans on current projects was
assumed at LB 50 million per year. Receipts of Agricultural Modernization lean
was assumed at the equivalent of US$8 million, US$10 million, and US$20 million
in FY95, FY96, and FY97 respectively.
12.         Ca2ijal.  Additional capital infusion of LB 200 million was assumed
in FY94.
13.         CaDital arants. Capital grants under the Agricultural Production and
Credit Project (APCP) and Small Farmer Production Project (SFPP) were assumed to
be LE 100 million in FY93, and LE 50 million in FY94 and FY95.



- l12 -
AN=F 2
Part C
Page 7 of 7
3ftlga Sheet - 'Cnra' rtems
14.         Accounts receivable - Government Accounts was assumed to be reduced
annually by LE 100 million from FY93 to FY95 and by LE SO million in FY96 and
1Y97. Accounts receivable - Other Accounts was assumed to be reduced annually
by LU 100 million from FY93 to FY95 and by LE 50 million in FY96 and FY97.
Accounts Payable - Government and other organizations was assumed to be reduced
annually by LB 50 million from FY93 to FY95. Accounts Payable - Others was
a"umed to be reduced annually by LE 100 million from FY93 to FY95 and by LU 50
million in FY96 and FY97. Interest accrued on Agricultural Modernizatlon loans
was added to Accounts Payable - Others.
Inflation Rates and Treasury Bill Rates
IS.         Inflation rates and Treasury Bill interest rates (6 month average)
were based on projections of Country Operations Division. These are given below.
FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97
Projected inflation rate  10.7%    9.5%    6.1%    5.5%    5.0%
Projected 6 month          16.3%   12.8%    9.9%    8.7%    8.1%
Treasury Bill rate



-113 -
2
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
mAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
terms of Reference fo&  Develoment Bankint/Planning Adviser
Objectives
1.          The overall objective is to: (a) strengthen the overall development
banking capabilities, development lending and financial planning of the PBDAC5
and (b) assist in the implementation of the project.
Oualifications
2.          Academic:   The specialist shall have a graduate education in
agricultural economics or business administration.
3.          Work experience: At least 10 years of development banking experience
directly related to the managerial and financial operations of an agricultural
bank. Experience in conducting training programs related to the above areas
would be an added advantage. Familiarity with the World Bank's policies and
procedures for financing sub-projects through financial intermediaries would also
be beneficial.
4.          jjneUMP*s:  Candidates must be fluent in English and willing to
acquire proficiency in Arabic within six months of assignment.
Terms of Assinnment and Responsibilities
5.          Terms of Assiunment:  The appointment will be for a period of two
years, which, by mutual agreement, may be extended for another year making a
total term of three years.
6.          Duties:  The planning specialist will:
(a)   assist  the  Chairman  of  PBDAC   in  implementing  the
recommendations of the organization and management study
particularly relating to the reorganization capitalization and
operational plans;
(b)   assess PBDAC group's staff needs from the results of the
organization and management study and review plans for
retrenchment and/or new recruitment;
(c)   assist PBDAC in financial planning i.e. use of accounts for
medium and long-term forecasting of operations, resources,
income, expenses and assets and liabilities in the context of
the proposed business plan;



- 114 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
(d)   assist PBDAC staff in setting up monitoring procedures in
their respective BDAC'c, district branches and village banks;
(e)   set up and monitor a system for determining the sub-projects'
environmental impacts
(f)   plan and execute a preliminary project launch seminar to
acquaint PBDAC staff with the World Bank sub-project financing
requirements, sub-project review, disbursement and auditing
and reporting proceduresJ
(I)   provide training for senior and middle management primarily on
the job; and
(h)   carry out other duties as may be assigned by the chairman.
7.          OrflaniZAtional set 3a: The specialist would be located in PBDAC and
would report to the chairman. The bank would provide him with office space,
support staff and equipment required to accomplish his duties.



- 116 -
Appendir 2
Page 1 of 2
"RAB REPUBLIC OF EgxPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Proposed Terms of Reference of Consultant on
Credit Administration and Loan Recovery
Obiectives
1.          The overall objective is tot (a) strengthen the loan por'-folio and
loan recovery of PBDAC system as a whole by improving/updating ixs lending
policies and procedures; and (b) broaden the number of staff trained in credit
analysis, loan supervision, loan recovery, loan classification, loan provisioning
and other credit topics.
2.          Set of loan policies and procedures, in the form of a manual to be
used as a training text as well as a guide for all credit officers and managers
with loan approval authority within the PBDAC system.
3.          Functioning credit process, trained credit officers, sound loan
supervision and an effective loan recovery program.
Tasks
4.          Establish a Loan Policy and Procedures Review Group in PBDAC to
examine current policies and procedures to strengthen them through incorporation
of management and reporting requirements related to: the recommended Loan
classification and Provisions Policy and the loan recovery strategy.   The
consultant would assist this group in other functions too, which would include
the following:
(a)   Defining areas of lending for which current credit policy is
inadequate or for which there is no current policy and writing
policy and procedures to adequately cover them. Suggested
areas of review include: lending to private sector enterprises
in agro-processing/agro-industries, new types of working
capital finance such as permanent working capital and trade
finance. Policy and procedures would delineate how to analyze
proposals for such loans, an appropriate loan structure and
repayment terms, required collateral and documentation.
(b)   Specifying criteria for specific types of lending related to
the financial position, credit history and market prospects
such as required borrower's contribution, clean credit report,
working capital level and relevant business e:perience.
(c)   Assisting the PBDAC in the development of analytical tools and
procedures for determining deposit interest rate schedules and
lending rates by sector.



- 116 -
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
(4) Establishing a system of loan review and portfolio audit at
branch/village bank level, incorporating a decision-making
process relative to non-performing loans.
(e) Improving the format of loan records for loan disbtureements,
loan amounts falling due, loan repayments, and interest
suspended; detailed instructions should be prepared to enable
the staff to implement the improved format.
(f) Defining loan collection procedures with clear delineation of
responsibility and reporting systems on the status of the
portfolios.
(g) Designing loan ledger to account for principal and interest
components of loan transactions separately in order to ensure
that actual collections made against the principal amount of
loans and accrued interest are readily available.
(h) Introducing records both for individual branches/village banks
and BDACs and PBDAC as a whole, to reflect correct repayment
ratios. The records to be introduced as above woald also show
separately the breakdown of overall repayment ratios into the
collection ratio for current dues (loans which have fallen due
for repayment during the relevant year), and the ratio for
past dues (overdue loans due for repayment at the beginning of
the year); and accounting of overdues or designing of
appropriate records to ensure that age-wise classification of
total overdues, both branch/village bank-wise and for
9DAC/PBDAC as a whole, is readily available.
(i)   Developing rules for portfolio management, including upper
limits on the concentration of loans to any one sector/sub-
sector or type of borrower, policy on classification on loans
based on ageing and risk evaluation, establishment of loan
loss provisions based on the resulting classification.
(j) Developing training courses for credit analysis, loan
supervision, loan classification, loan recovery programe and
rehabilitation of problem accounts.
(k) Assist PBDAC staff in implementation of the recommended
policies and procedures.
Int and StAtff Recuirement
12.         A credit expert for 24 person-months to be based in PBDAC.  The
consultant should have relevant academic qualifications and considerable
practical experience (minimum 10 years) in agricultural credit operations
preferably in a developing country.



- 117 -
Faso 1 of I
RAM REPUBLIC OF EgYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Financial Consutants
Opieet&ve
1.          An important objective of the project in to strengthen PUDAC as a
rural financial intermediary, within the context of the Government'e program of
reforms for the financial sector of the country.   Towards this end, the
management of PBDAC is presently already implementing a program of restructuring
the bank's operations, phasing out trading and input distribution activities ad
discontinuing subsidies. Consideration is also being given to the possibillty
of raising capital on the open market, by seeking equity contributions from the
public. In implemnting such a program, the management of PIDAC recognises the
importance of strengthening the financiel capabilitien of the bank, and of
prparing annual financial accounts in a manner which are in accordance with
international accounting standards and principles. At present, funding decLsions
and performance measurement (for example, ratio analysis involvLng total assets
and liabilities) are distorted by the large volume of illiquid accounts payable
and receivables as well as other debit and credit balances on the balance sheet.
in addition, internal control mechanisms need to be strengthened, bringing them
in line with practice followed by financial intermedLaries.
2.          in order to strengthen the bank's overall financLal mtnagemet,
upgrade the accounting systems and standards to conform with international
standards and to support the management of the bank in implementing its program
of restructuring, the PBDAC will recruit a qualified firm of Chartered
Accountants as financial consultants.
Terms of Assionment and Resionsibilities
3.   The appointment will be for period of three months annually, over the llfe
of the project.
4.          The selected firm, working together with the finance and internal
audit staff of PBDAC, will be responsible for:
-     preparing the annual accounts of PBDAC which presents its
financial position as of the end of the year and the results
of the operations during the year in a manner which is
consistent with international accounting standards and
principles; all information necessary for carrying out this
task will be made available to the selected firm by PBDACI the
firm will prepare the folloving financial statements:
*     Balance Sheet as of the year end.
*     Income Statement.



- 1X8 -
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
*     statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity.
*     Statement of Source and Application of Fundeq.
*    Notes to Financial Statements, in accordance with the
accepted policies on disclosure.
presenting a report to the management of P8DAC on: the overall
performance of the bank during the year and on meeting the
targets set within the Business Plan; comments, observations
and recommendations emerging from their evaluation of the
internal control structure existing in the bank; and comments
and observations related to the economy and efficiency of the
operations of the bank.
-     "updating the Business Plan prepared by PBDAC annually,
including the financial targets for the following fiscal year,
and accordingly preparing a projection of PBDAC's financial
performance for the following five years.
S.          The reports prepared by the consultants would be made available to
the World Bank annually, within nine months of the completion of the financial
year. - The financial accounts prepared by the consultants would be audited
annually by the Central Audit Organization.



- 119 -
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AMRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Study of Rural Financial Markets
Obiectives
1.      The main objective of this study is to acquire factual data and
information concerning rural credit demand and supply market, based on which
appropriate policy decision would be taken to better serve the clients needs.
Demand Side
2.      A nationwide sample of rural households survey would be carried out to
provide information on group and gender basis on: nature of credit demand, terms
and conditions of loans, use of credit, repayment performance, factors affecting
repayment, level of indebtedness, and presence of any and perceptions towards
rural credit sources.
3a      The borrowers transaction cost would be studied to examine the non-
interest expenses segregated by actual cash outlay and the opportunity cost of
time spent in applying for securing and repaying a loan from both formal and
informal sources; to determine how borrower transaction costs affect borrower
demand for and access to credit; to examine the factors that determine the level
of transaction costs.
4.      Rural household savings would be studied to provide information on the
patterns and determinants of saving viz., level and forms of savings, the
importance of financial form of savings, households' propensity to save, factors
affecting householdsI decision to save, perceptions of rural households regarding
saving, responsiveness of saving, in general, and financing saving, in particular
to changes in interest rates. To provide broader information about the potential
for mobilizing financing savings in the rural areas, the study would include both
farm and non-farm households.
Suppl Side
5.      Various sources of credit in farm-financing should be identified and
their role in financing farm households need tc be assessed. For the formal
credit sources, an analysis of their efficiency wt.ld be made and such analysis
would be supported by financial performance indicators such as subsidy dependence
index and collection rate. In addition, the effect of group and gender lending
on administration cost and collection rate would be highlighted.   For the
informal sources, the major structure of the rural financial markets, size,
trends in size and policy and legal environment impinging on the informal credit
markets would be described. The role of informal lenders in savings generation
and provision of consumption credit, allocation efficiency and issues on equity



- 120 -
ANNMEE
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 2
would be identified.   The sources of funds of informal lenders, size of
clientele, types of financial services given, form and nature of credit extended
to borrowers would be determined.
6.      Interlinkage of informal lenders' credit transactions with transactions
in other markets (such as input supply, trading of products) in which the lenders
participate would be examined. In addition, linkages and interaction of informal
lenders with the formal financial institutions and implications for monetary
policy would be determined.
7.      The study would analyze interest rate formation in the informal credit
markets and as well as trends. The competition and complementarity between
formal and informal sectors would be examined.   Data on informal lender
transaction costs and recovery rates would also be obtained. The optimal legal
and policy environment for the development of the informal financial sector would
be determined.



- 121 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL NODERNIZATION PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
A. Backeround
1.      In recognition of the fact that economic development and the health and
welfare of its population are closely linked to the proper management of its
natural resources and environment, the Government of Egypt (GOE) embarked upon
the preparation of a national environmental action plan which was published in
May 1992.   The plan focuses on five topics: land and water resources, air
pollution, solid waste management, protecting Egypt' s heritage, and strengthening
environmental institutions. The specific actions that are most relevant to the
proposed Agricultural Modernization Project are set out below.
2.     Environmental priorities in Egypt are dominated by the critical need to
manage scarce water and land resources more efficiently. There is also growing
need for better disposal of sewage and solid wastes. The agriculture sector is
the main user of water in Egypt and water availability is a key constraint to
agricultural expansion. Although the overall quantitative efficiency of water use
is quite high, this has been achieved only at the high cost of a significant
deterioration in water quality. Much of the expected increase in demand for
irrigation water will have to be met by reusing water from the agricultural,
industrial and municipal drains.   The feasibility of this option ultimately
depends upon water quality. The canals are affected by unregulated discharges
and uncontrolled mixing with water from polluted drains. Both land and water
degradation are attributable to the activities of the agricultural sector,
particularly due to excessive use of fertilizers and pesticides. At present,
about 35 per cent of the agricultural land is affected by salinity. Environmental
degradation in Egypt has arisen due to inadequate environmental assessment and
monitoring and the failure to implement existing environmental legislation.
3.      The Government has drafted a unified Law on Environmental Protection,
which is currently before the People's Assembly.   The new law introduces a
requirement for environmental impact assessments and a mechanism for prescribing
and enforcing the implementation of environmental mitigation plans. To effect
this, the new law provides for considerable strengthening of the central
authority, the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (to be re-established as the
Environmental Protection Agency). Over the medium term, trained bodies will also
be established at the Governorate and municipality levels, to enforce
environmental  legislation and to implement national and Governorate-level
Environmental Action Plans.
4.      There is, at present, very limited capacity for environmental expertise
in both the public and private sectors.   It is estimated that current
environmental monitoring efforts meet less than half the present requirement.
The EEAA is currently preparing a Monitoring Directory and donor support is being
negotiated with CIDA and ODA for assistance to develop an environmental



- 122 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
monitoring information system. It has also sought technical assistance from the
ODA for in-country training and international consultancy inputs in environmental
assessment. Although a special Environmental Unit was established within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation in late 1992, the staff comprises
mostly agricultural engineers with no specific training or experience in
environmental audit or assessment.
B. Project Aspects
5.      The rationale, objectives and anticipated activities of the project are
in line with the Government's agricultural sector strategy for sustained
increases in productivity through the generation and dissemination of modern
technology.
6.      The project would finance improved agricultural practices which would
have environmental benefits in terms of reduced consumption of water, fertilizers
and pesticides. Sub-projects involving horizontal expansion in the New Lands and
pesticides inputs would have significant adverse environmental impacts and such
proposals would have to be accompanied by a formal environmental assessment. In
those instances which might have significant adverse environmental impacts,
inexpensive mitigation plans could be readily prepared. The development of a
stronger rural economy raises the prospect that many small-scale rural
enterprises could become a source of adverse environmental impact.   This
necessitates environmental assessment of agro-processing investments.   The
project would also incorporate an environmental management plan, to ensure that
mechanisms are put in place to prevent the loan being used to finance sub-
projects that might have adverse environmental impacts.
7.      Both PBDAC and the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation are
developing organizational arrangements to deal with environmental issues and
providing staff training plans on environmental matters.   The project will
accelerate these developments, through the provision of training and technical
assistance and by introducing measures aimed at ensuring that environmental
considerations are properly integrated into all the relevant credit and
technology transfer activities. An Office of Environmental Adviser would be
established and would be attached to the Office of the Vice Chairman of PBDAC.
The Environmental Advisor and a Technical Officer will be recruited locally to
staff  the  new  Office.    Additionally,  a  consultant  would  be  recruited
internationally for 24 months to assist the Environmental Advisor. The draft
terms of reference for the consultant are contained in Appendix A.   The
Environmental Advisor, with necessary technical assistance, would draw up
appropriate environmental guidelines for use by PBDAC. One of the main tasks of
the internationally-recruited consultant would be to provide on-the-job training
for PBDAC's staff in implementation of the necessary screening, appraisal and
monitoring activities. As the in-house skills and experience develop during the
course of the project, the need for external technical assistance would decline.
8.      The Environmental Guideline should indicate a set of measures to
reducing adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels. Besides, it should
also provide guidance on these measures: Establishing a system whereby sub-
projects are screened, assessed, subjected to sub-project environmental



- 123 -
AM-
Page 3 of 3
mitigation plans, and monitored by project staff; and introducing measures to
encourage the promotion and adoption of environmentally sound practices.
9.      Prior to Board presentation, the Environmental Advisor would be appointed
to the Project Steering Committee and the Implementation Advisory Committei.
Technical assistance would be provided to PBDAC Environmental Unit for in-count:y
training., whereby the necessary screening guidelines, scoping guidelines and
reviews of Statements of Capability for compiling a national register of
environmental consultants would be prepared. In addition to implementing the
sub-project screening and scoping guidelines, as soon as the project begins the
PBDAC staff would be called upon to review the environmental assesomento
presented in the feasibility studies and to monitor the implementation of sub-
project mitigation plans.
10.     In respect of the technology transfer components, the Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs) in each participating NALR Regional Research and Extension
Station would be responsible for the promotion of environmentally sound practices
and the implementation of any mitigation plans associated with the proposed
technology. Necessary training would also be provided to the Subject Matter
Specialists, the extension system and the proposed Extension Information and
Demonstration Units.  Each SMS would be given training in the environmental
aspects and a refresher training would be given to trainees annually. This
training would be through an in-country training program designed and presented
by suitably experienced trainers. Representatives of both the EEAA and the
Ministry of Health would assist in reviewing the training program.
11.     The total inputs for the environmental management plan activities to be
undertaken during project implementation would consist ofs 24 months of
international and 44 months of local consultants; four training seminars to be
conducted by PBDAC and two seminars to be conducted by Extension Services yearly;
a week of training annually for 12 SMSs serving under the project; and provision
for travel, equipment, operating costs and contingencies to carry these tasks.
The environmental seminars which would be conducted by PBDAC would cater mostly
to rural banking staff, while the seminars organized by the Extension service
would be open to a wider audience, including VEWs, investors and farmers. Cost
of direct support to the environmental component of the project would amount to
about US$761,700. In all, a total of 1412 persons would be trained directly in
environmental matters through the various training programs under the project.
12.     For purposes of the project's  mid-term review, the Project Management
Department would prepare a detailed report on the experience of project
implementation to date, including specific sections dealing with environmental
issues and the support given to women and disadvantaged groups. The project
completion report would similarly include a detailed account of the environmental
impact of the project.



- 124 -
ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGR}CULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Environmental Specialist
Backgro-und
1.      The main objectives of the Agricultural Modernization Project are to
increase rural income and to achieve sustained increase in agricultural
productivity through promoting appropriate technological packages and small- and
medium-scale agro-related enterprises. The project would finance a rance of
subprojects in on-farm technological packages, which would seek to enhance
environmental benefit through reduced consumption of water, fertilizer and
pesticides, and in agro-related enterprises.
2.      The project is national in scope and will mostly comprise sector
investment subloans made through financial intermediaries. The Principal Bank
for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) is acting as an apex lending
institution for other financial intermediaries which would participate under this
project.   The Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation would provide
technical advisory services for disseminating improved technological packages to
potential investor and farmers. The screening of individual subprojects for
environmental review and additional environmental study will therefor be the
responsibility of the project implementing institutions, PBDAC and the
participating banks.
3.      In order to ensure that subprojects with unacceptable environmental
impacts will not be financed through the project, a basic framework for
developing effective environmental assessment systems in PBDAC, apex lending
institution, would be established. Toward this objective, an office of
Environmental adviser would be created in the PBDAC.   The Environmental
Specialist will assist the Environmental Advisor in carrying out its
responsibilities and would closely collaborate in implementing the environmental
training program envisaged under the Project.
Scone of Duties
4.      The Environmental Specialist will provide training  and technical
assistance to PBDAC and MALR to help establish satisfactory environmental review
systems within those agencies.   The duties will include, but will not be
restricted to, the following.
* Determine and take into account the environmental assessment and
monitoring responsibilities of the Government environmental and
sectoral institutions, and the extent to which they are able to
discharge these duties, in order to avoid duplication of effort.
* Review the capabilities of PBDAC to meet the Bank's environmental
assessment requirements as set out in Operative Directive 4.01 and in
the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook.



- 125 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Page 2 of 2
* Design, prepare and implement a program of practical in-service
training for PBDAC and MALR environmental staff and produce as outputs
of that program (i) subloan screening guidelines, (ii) subloan
environmental analysis scoping guidelines, and (iii) a register of
suitably qualified and experienced local environmental consultants.
* Assist the Pilot Research and Extension Regional Stations in designing
and in the implementing environmental training program which is
considered for Subject Matter Specialist, Technology Transfer
Specialist and Extension Staff.
* Prepare and implement a program of practical in-service training for
PBDAC staff covering (i) efficient implementation of the screening and
scoping guidelines; (ii) specification and review of environmental
assessments to be included in subloan feasibility studies, (iii)
specification and monitoring of subproject environmental mitigation
plans; and (iv) specification and monitoring of environmental
information specifically relating to loan security and investment
risks.
X Regularly review the operations of the PBDAC with responsibility for
environmental analysis and design, prepare and implement additional
training programs to address any substantive weaknesses or omissions.
Duration and Timeframe of Inputs
S.      The contract will be for a total of 24 staff-months; the precise timing
and duration of each input to be determined by the Project Directorate but with
the first input to be implemented before any subloans are approved or disbursed.
The Environmental Specialist should be in place by July 1994 and the training
programmers should be developed by September 1994.
Oualifications and Experience
6.      Post-graduate degree in environmental analysis, ecology or developmental
agriculture, specific knowledge and experience of integrated pest management
(IPM) or small-scale agro-processing would be advantageous.
* Minimum five years post-graduate international experience in
agricultural sector environmental impact assessment (EIA) or
environmental analysis (EA), preferably with emphasis on environmental
screening, scoping and evaluation of ZIA and EA reports.
* Specific knowledge of World Bank environmental requirements in respect
of projects implemented thoroughly financial intermediaries.
* Experience or knowledge of the recent international development of
environmental assessment units within the commercial financial
sectors.



ARAB REPULIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTIRAL MoDERNIZATION PROJECT
Prolects's Training Conmnoent
Foreism Trainina for Institutional Strenatheninf of Rural Banking2'
Anticipated      Duration            Number of Trainees            Total
Training                             Trainees                      Location        Week                                             No.
1994   1995   1996   ¶  1997 1 I       art     I
l  l                           .           .     .   .   .    .                _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    .  ,   _a.       t    l
1. Project Appraisal          Credit Officers and Managers, and        India, Sri Lanka    8 to 12       -       10     10      10              30
Branch Managers
2. Marketing Studies          Marketing Managers and officers,                                  2                                       a8  8  8    32
Branch Managers, and Loan and
Deposit Officers
3. Deposit Mobilization        Branch Manager, Deposit Officers and                         8 to 12             15      15      15      15      60
Managers
4. Women in Development       Women Promoter and Supervisors           ThaiLand             8 to 12       -      8       8       8      8       32
(Credit Training for
Women)
5. Private Sector              Loan  and Commercial Officers, and      Turkey                2 to 3              10     10      10      10      40    |
Dealers1 Support           Managers.
6. Internal Audit             Auditors, Inspectors, and Fotlow-Up    UK, USA                 8 to 12             15     15      -               30
officers
7. Small Enterprises          Branch and Credit Managers, and          Thailand,             4 to 8              10     10      10     10       40
Project                    Marketing Officers.                      Indonesia
S. New Credit Lines           Credit Managers and Officers.            Indonesia,India,      8 to 12     -        8      8      8       8       32
Norocco
9. Loan Collection             Credit and Recovery Officers, and       India, Turkey         8 to 12     -       10     10      10              30
Credit and Branch Managers.
10. Rural Enterprises         Branch and Village Banks managers,       India, Morocco           4                10     10     10      10       40
and Irwestment Officers.
11. Banking Services          Managers and Senior Officers at          Indonesia, Sri         2 to 3             15     10     -                25           t D
PBDAC and BODACs.                       Lanka                                                                           l        Z
Total                                                                                                           119    114     89      69      391           X
T1
JThe training programs on rural enterprise, smait enterprises, and market studies wilt inctude environmental aspects atso.



ARAB REPUBLIC Of EGYPT
AGRICWLTURAL NMDERNIZATION PROJECT
Local Traininr for Institutional Strensthening of Rural Banking"
Training/Job title               Training Curricutum                    Location                   Frequency            i Number Of
I                                        I ~~~~~~~~~~~Participants
1. Rural Banking         Customer service skills, core banking    P_OAC, BDACs, Cairo    480 sessions, length of each           2,000
principles, credit analysis, current      University, CMD        session varies from 6 to 10
account and saving procedures, and                               days.
modern management skill.
2. Women in              Banking marketing skills, customer        CMD, PBDAC, BODACs      200 sessIons, length of each          1,000
Development           service skill, deposit promotion                                 session varies form 6 to 10
skills, credit manual procedures,                                days
modern management, and agro-business.
3. Accounting            Bsank Accounting I, current account and   TRB Institute,          320 session, length of each           2,000
Classes               saving procedures, balance sheet,         PBOAC,  BODACs          session varies from 6 to 12
banking financial analysis ard                                   days
performance.
3. Credit Officer        Basic credit anslysis, new lending        PBDAC, BOACs            400 sessions, length of each          2,000
package, advanced credit analysis,                               session varies from 6 to 10
credit risk investigation, and Agro-                             days
business.
4. Credit Analyst        Basic and advance credit analysis,        PBDAC, BDACS, TRG       160 sessions, length of each          1,000
loan management prirciples, and           Institute              session varies from  6 to 15
proJect financial analysis.                                      days
5. P.C. Users            Introduction to DOS (Arabic DOS),         PBDAC, BDACs            240 sessions, length each             1,000
Lotus, Wordstar 200, Advanced DOS,                               session varies from 5 to 10
Advanced Lotus, and Database.                                    days.
6. Envfronmental         Environmental assessment, screening,      PBOAC, BDACs            28 sessions, 6 days for each            700
Training             mitigation and monitoring.                                        session.
Total                                                                                                                   9,700
/I The training programs under items 1 to 5 are concerned with redeployment and it is anticipated to be completed during the first four years of the           '5
project imptementation; Environmental training wilt be carried out at a rate of 4 seminars per year and wfil commence during the second year of
the project's implementation.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL NODERIZATIOU PROJECT
Local Training for the Pf lot Research and Extension Canent of the Project'
Training and           Trainees        Duration in                  Number of Participants                                                Total
Trsinees                            Weeks                                              _.onths of
1994      1995      1996     1997       1998     1999        2000      2001      Training
1. Induction       TTS/Extensionists        6             -         65        50        50                                       -          247.5
Training
2. Refresher       TTS/Extensionists        4             -         -       32.5      57.5      82.5      82.5       82.5      82.5         420
Training
3. asic            Custom Hire              4                      20        20        20        20        20         20        20          140
training        Operator and
Farrers
4. Adance          TTS Irrigetfon           4             -                   11        ii        ii                     -3 
Training                                                                                                                                                  OD
5. Advanco         VEU                      4             *                   10        10        10        10         10        10          60
Tralnfng
6. Enwiromenntal   VEW, Investors,
Training        and Farmers              I                     100       100       100       100       100        100       100         12.S
seminars (two
sesions per
year)
T. Refresher       SKS
Training in                              3                       12        12       12          12       12         12        12        84
Agriculture
wnd
Etwirowment
TOTAL                                                           197       235.5    260.5    235.5    224.5        224.5    224.5       997
2/ In addition to local training, short-term foreign training of 30 months for research staff and 20 months for extension staff is included in the   
project.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Sumwary Account by Project Component
La 000
Physical              Price
Transfer                      Contingencies         Contingencies
ON-FARM   AGRO-BASED   Rural        of Agr.                                                      -
INV.      D INV.    Blanking       Tech.         Total          t       Amount        %    Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. SELECTED INCR. EQUIPMENT           232050.4          0.0         0.0         0.0   232050.4          0.0         0.0      39.3    91086.2
B. OTSER EQUIP.& SPARE PARTS          108220.0          0.0         0.0         0.0   108220.0          0.0         0.0      34.1    36951.5
C. AGRO-BASED INV.                          0.0   283000.0          0.0         0.0   283000.0          0.0         0.0      37.2   105266.8
D. VEHICLE                                  0.0         0.0      1330.0    11S65.0    12895.0           0.0         0.0      20.4      2624.5
E. OFFICE EQUIPMENT                         0.0         0.0      1866.0      3608.0      5474.0         0.0         0.0      21.7      1186.8
F. LABORATORY EQUIPMENT                     0.0         0.0         0.0      1000.0      1000.0         0.0         0.0      18.0       179.7
0. CIVIL WORKS                              0.0         0.0      6000.0      9560.0    15560.0         10.0      1556.0      26.6      4140.0
H. PROTOTYPE EQUIPMBNT                      0.0         0.0         0.0       385.0       385.0         0.0         0.0      36.5       140.6
I. TRAINING                                 0.0         0.0    27164.0      4064.2    31228.2           0.0         0.0      24.2      7543.8
J. DEMONSTRATION                            0.0         0.0         0.0      6286.4      628O.4         0.0         0.0      34.5      2169.0
K. SPECIALIZED SERVICES                     0.0         0.0     4982.0        564.0      5546.0         0.0         0.0      25.6      1420.3
L. STUDIES                                  0.0         0.0      1995.0         0.0      1995.0         0.0         0.0      24.8       494.9
M. INCENTIVE PAYMENT                        0.0         0.0      2208.0      4933.8      7141.8         0.0          0.0     31.5      2248.6                                   N
N. INSTITUTION RESTRUCTURING                0.0         0.0    97000.0          0.0    97000.0          0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                340270.4   283000.0   142545.0    41S66.4   807781.8              0.2      1556.0      31.6   255452.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                0.0         0.0      1567.5    11042.2    12609.7           0.0         0.0      32.7      4124.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                  340270.4   283000.0   144112.5    53008.6   820391.5              0.2      1556.0      31.6   25S577.2
Physical Contingencies                   0.0          0.0      600.0        956.0      1556.0
Price Contingencies                 128037.7   105266.8    11945.6    14327.1   259577.2              0.1       376.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                   468308.1   388266.8   1S6658.1    68291.8  1081524.8              0.2      1932.4      24.0   259577.2
........... ....................- -.. --....-.-.-.......... ^,....-_  ......................
Taxes                                81499.6    58240.0         664.8      4566.6   144971.0          0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                    248939.2   158969.6    32750.4    20080.8   460740.1              0.1       690.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0  2/17/1994  15:26
I r z
tD- tC



ARAM REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL M3D0NZRA?TON PROJECT
LB 000
Suary Accounts by Year
Base Costs.                                                        Foreign Exchange
1994       199S        1996        1997       1998        1999        2000        2001      Total           %     AmDunt
..............4.........................  ....................             .....   ..............
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A.  SELECTED INCR. EQUIPMBNT             0.0    14609.4    14459.4    29068.8    43328.2    43528.2    43528.2    43528.2   232050.4                53.4   123875.8
8.  OTHER SQUIP.& SPARE PARTS            0.0    15460.0    15460.0    15460.0    15460.0    15460.0    15460.0    15460.0   108220.0                50.0    54110.0
C.  AGRO-BASED INY.                      0.0    20000.0    28000.0    36000.0    44060.0    51000.0    52000.0    52000.0   283000.0                40.0   113200.0
D.  VEBICLS                              0.0      6995.0     2950.0      2950.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    1289S.0           71.6     9236.7
E.  OFFICE EQUIPHENT                     2.0      2118.0     1794.0      1132.0       212.0       212.0        2.0         2.0      5474.0          60.2     3295.3
F.  LABORATORY BQUIPKENT                 0.0       600.0      400.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0      1000.0          90.0      900.0
a.  CIVIL WORKS                          0.0      2760.0     5550.0      4250.0      1500.0      1500.0         0.0        0.0    15S60.0           35.0     5446.0
H.  PROTOTYPE EQUIPMENT                  0.0        55.0        55.0       S5.0        55.0        Ss.0       55.0        55.0       385.0          90.0      346.5
I.  TRAINING                             0.0     8783.3      8846.7      6440.2      6017.7      380.0       380.0       380.0    31228.2          57.8    18040.0
J.  DEMONSSRATION                        0.0       195.2      615.2      1095.2      1095.2      1095.2     1095.2      1095.2      628.4            0.0        0.0
X.  SPECIALIZED SgRVICBS                67.0      1697.0     1897.0       697.0       297.0       297.0      297.0       297.0      5546.0          86.5     4800.0
L.  STUDISS                            170.0       670.0      220.0       135.0       350.0         0.0       50.0       400.0      1995.0           0.0        0.0
M.  INCENTIVY  PAYMENT                  40.8       804.6     1049.4      1049.4      1049.4      1049.4     1049.4      1049.4      7141.8           0.0        0.0
N.  INSTITUTION RESTRUCTURING        35000.0    31000.0    32000.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    97000.0            0.0        0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               35279.8   105747.5   112296.7    98332.6   113364.5   114576.8   113916.8   114266.8   807781.8                41.3   333250.3
It. RECURRENT    -S                                                                                                                                                         O
0. OPERATION amD MAINSANC                3.0      1097.7    'I45.2       1992.7      1992.7      1992.7     1992.7      19.'-.7    12609.7           0.0        0.0
Total  ASBELINE COSTS                35282.8   106845.2   113842.0   100325.4   115357.3   116S69.6   115909.6   116259 4   820391.5                40.6   333250.3
Physical Contingencies                0.0      276.0       *55.0       425.0       150.0      150.0         0.0         0.0     1556.0          35.0       544.6
Price Contingencies                  13.4    10945.8    17551.7    28200.1    3996s.s    47592.9    54200.8    61106.9   259577.2               48.9   126945.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                  35296.2   118067.1   131948.7   128950.5   155472.8   164312.5   170110.4   177366.5  1081524.8               42.6   460740.1
............................... ..........................................................-.-.- ........ -.----.............,---..... e--... t"..*  
Taxes                                 0.0    11387.8    12071.7    17986.1    23040.1    25627.7    26894.6    27963.0   144971.0                0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                      1.6    44353.9    48282.0    60493.0    72701.5    75279.2    78214.5    81414.3   460740.1              100.0   460740.1
Values Scaled by 1000.0 2/17/1994 15s26
Ir4



ARMB RIPDBLXC OP BGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZAION PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
usM 000
1994      199S       1996      1997       l99B      1999       2000       2001     Total
........           .....   .a... ...a ..S0 Sn *....*      f.........Ufl
A. Clt-FARM nw.                        0.0    9162.4    9363.2   14358.4   19S37.8   20195.7   20828.9   21505.7  114952.1
A. 0RO-DA8IX INV.                      0.0    6073.0    8730.2   11S44.6   14520.7   17319.3   18193.8   10776.0   95158.5
C. IUSrml7I0AL DBV.
1. Rural lanking                10050.2   12152.6   12084.2    2757.7    2774.3        896.0     291.3      423.5   41429.8
2. Transfer of Agr. Tech.          20.0    4045.4    3873.7    3730.8    1404.S    1354.9    1392.0    1434.6   172S5.8
Sub-Total                           10070.3   16198.0   15957.9    6480.5    4178.8    2250.8    1683.3    1858.1   58686.6
Total PROOUCT8 COSTS                10070.3   31434.3   34051.3   32391.5   38237.3   39765.8   40706.0   42139.8  268796.3
* .....f...........      mff.....uan........---a....s wss...uam...flW
AIW3 RIPULIC OF UWPT
MGRICULTOA IIDORNZATION PROJEICT
Projects Coamonents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
LB 000
1994      1995       1996      1997       1998       1999      2000       2001     Total
".......s......        f.......... a.-  ..........-f-f.                   -ff--..ff......
A. ON-FARM INV.                        0.0   34414.1   36282.5   57160.8   79440.6   83448.6   87044.0   90517.S' 468308.1
B. AMRO-BASBD INV.                     0.0   22813.3   33829.4   45958.9   59041.3   71563.4   76032.1   79028.4  388266.8
C. ZSTZTIONiAL DBV.
1. Rural Banking                35226.1   45645.0   46826.2   10978.4   11280.4    3702.2    1217.4    1782.4  156658.1
2. Transfer of Agr. Tech.          70.2   15194.6   15010.6   14852.4    5710.5    5598.2    5817.0    6036.2   68291.8
,Sub-Total                           35296.2   60839.6   61836.7   2S830.8   16990.9    9300.5    7034.4    7820.6  224949.9
Total PROBCTS COSTS                 3s296.2  118067.1  131948.7  128950.S  155472.8  164312.5  170110.4  177366.5  1081524.8
----- ---- ---- ---.  --_.---- ----- ----- ---- -,-- ---- -    --  -.,.,--- -,,.-----. --- ----- ---- -_-- --    -- -...--.  -  ---  --
Values Scaled by 1000.0 2/17/1994 15I26
ii



ARMB REPUBLIC OF EnYPr
AatZCtLTURAL MDRWZZATXOU PROJECr
Suwary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
US$ 000
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001      Total
1. NVBNSIXIT COSTS
A. SELECTED INCR. EQOXPMENT             0.0    4456.9    4531.0    9384.3   14415.3   14921.2   15391.4   1S892.7   78992.8
B. 07EBR BOMIP.& SPARE PARTS            0.0    4705.S    4832.3    4974.1    5122.5         S274.5    5437.5    S613.0   35959.4
C. AGRO-BASBD IN.                       0.0    6073.8    8730.2   11544.6   14520.7   17319.3   18193.8   18776.0   95158.5
D. VZHXCLA                              0.0    2149.6       932.2      962.9        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    4044.7
S. 0PFICg BEIQPMENT                     0.6      646.7      562.0      365.9       70.6       73.0        0.7        0.7    1720.4
P. LABORATORY BQDIPMENT                 0.0      184.0      126.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      310.1
G. CIVIL WORXS                          0 0      919.5    1897.7    1493.1        541.8      557.1        0.0        0.0    5409.2
H. PROTOTYPB BEQtfPMST                  0.0       16.9       17.4       18.0       18.5       19.1       19.8       20.5      130.2
X. SRAINID9                             0.0    2675.5    2767.4    2073.9    1996.5          124.2      129.6      133.6    9902.7
J. DEMWSRASTIRS                         0.0       58.6      189.5      345.6      354.5      363.6      373.5      385.0    2070.3
X. SPECIABIZED SERVICES                20.0      520.9      598.7      226.5       98.8      101.8      105.0      108.5    1780.2
L. STUDIZS                             50.8      201.3       67.8       42.6      113.3        0.0       17.1      140.6      433.4
M. ISCBNTXVE PAYMENT                   12.2      241.7      323.3      331.2      339.6      348.4      357.9      368.9    2323.1
N. Il8STI2ON R38TRDcTURMlN           9985.7    8253.5    8000.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   26239.2
_............----------------------------------------.-------_------------------ _________________
Total INVESThMNT COSTS              10069.4    31104.5   33575.2   31762.6   37592.3   39104.3   40026.4   41439.4  264674.1
.. _._ ............. _. .._ .   ..,.......  .......... ,_ ......... ._
XI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPBRAEIoN AhD MAIXTE3WIeB            0.9      329.B      476.0      628.9      644.9      661.6      679.6      700.4    4122.2
T'-al PROJECT COSTS                 10070.3    31434.3   34051.3   32391.5    38237.3   39765.8    40706.0   42139.8  268796.3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------........... _ .- ------------------  - .
Totals including Cortingencies
LB 000
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001      Total
... ........... ._ m........   .. _.. . .. ..... mm .. . .... ..............
X. INVESIT COSTS
A. SELECTED INCR. BWIPMHNT              0.0   16740.1   17SS7.5   37358.9   58612.5   61654.4   64320.8   66892.3  323136.6
B. OTER EOQUIP.& SPARS PARTS            0.0   17674.0   18725.0   19801.9   20828.0   21794.2   22723.2   23625.1  145171.5
C. AGRO-BAS3D INV.                      0.0   22813.3   33829.4   45958.9   59041.3   71563.4   76032.1   ?9028.4  368266.8
D. v3XI^.E                              0.0    8073.9    3612.1    3833.5           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   15519.5
S. OFFICB EQIPMEIIT                     2.1    2428.S    2177.6    1456.6         287.9      301.6        3.0        3.2    4660.8
P. LBRATORY EQ0IFMBNT                   0.0      691.1      488.6        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    1179.7
0. CIVIL WORKS                          0.0    3453.5    7353.4    5944.0    2203.1    2302.0             0.0        0.0   21256.0
H. PROTOTPE EP9WX                       0.0       63.S       67.3       71.5       7S.4       79.1       82.7       86.1      S25.6
1. TRAINID                              0.0   10049.3   10723.6    8256.3    8117.6          521.3      541.7      562.3   38772.0
3. DEMONSTRMTION                        0.0      220.3      734.4    1375.9    1441.2    1502.4    1560.9    1620.3    h455.4
K. SPECIALIZED SERVICES                70.2    1956.6    2319.8        901.6      401.8      420.8      439.0      456.5     6966.3               $4
L. STUDIES                            178.1      756.0      262.6      169.6      460.6        0.0       71.3      591.8    2489.9                to
M. INCENTIVE PAYMNIIT                  42.7      907.9    1292.7    1318.4    1380.9    1439.6    1495.7           S552.5    9390.4                 t
N. iN9SXTTION RESTRCTORING          35000.0   31000.0   31000.0          0.0        C.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   97000.0                 D  R
Total DSVBSlEN  COSTS               3S293.1  116828.4  130104.1  126447.0  1528SO.5  161578.8  167270.2   174418.4  1064790.S                     -.p
.    .    . .        ..       . .. ...S..                       .       ....      ......
ft. RECURRENT COSS
.........  ....
A. OPERATION AN0 ID BTE NC              3.1    1238.7    1844.6    2503.6    2622.3    2733.6    2840.2    2948.1   16734.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ............. ^*_. 
Total PROJECS  COSTS                3S296.2   118067.1   131948.7   128950.S   155472.8  164312.5  170110.4   177366.5  1081524.3
.......... .....          ............ ...._....... ....,,         ....... _
....-----    _    _-_-.-_----  _-_    .    -    .-..-.--------.-..--..---_-_-_    ..    --.    ..    .   _-_-.    _    _-_    ^--..--.--



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule ot Disbursement of IBRD Loan/IDA Credit
IBRD Loan           IDA Credit         Loan/Credit    Egypt
Agriculture
IBRD Fiscal Year    Semester Cumulative  Semester Cumulative  Cumulative   Project  Sector
And Semester      US$      US$        US$      US$        US$        Profile  Profile
Ending           Million   Million^  Million   Million   Million    _         .__
1994
June 30,1994          0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
1995
December 31,1994      1.9        1.9      4.6        4.6        6.5       5         3
June 30,1995          2.0        3.9      4.8        9.4       13.3      11         6
1998
December 31,1995      2.2        6.1      4.7       14.1       20.2      17        14
June 30,1996          2.3        8.4      4.7       18.8       27.2      22        18
1997
December 31, 1996     3.3       11.7      4.9       23.7       35.4      29        26
June 30,1997          3.3       15.0      4.9       28.6       43.6      36        34
1998
December 31,1997      4.4       19.4      5.1       33.7      53.1       44        42
June 30,1998          4.4       23.8      5.2       38.9       62.7      52        50
1999
December 31, 1998     4.8       28.6      4.5       43.4      72.0       60        62
June 30,1999          4.9       33.5      4.6       48.0       81.5      67        70
2000
December 31,1999      5.0       38.5      4.6       52.6      91.1       75        74
June 30, 2000         5.1       43.6      4.6       57.2      100.8      83        82
2001                                                                                            >
December 31, 2000     5.2       48.8      4.9       62.1      110.9      92        86
June 30, 2001         5.2       54.0      4.9       67.0      121.0     100        86
Closing Date: 0613012001



- 134 -
ANNEX: 7
Page 1 of 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Economlc and financial Benefits. and Sensitivity Analysis
A. Project Benefit
1.          The project would primarily benefit farm households, increasing their
incomes by utilizing improved production technology and by promoting investments
in farm related enterprises. In addition, it would assist the participating
institutions, both public and private, to improve their operational efficiency:
the PBDAC would be supported in divesting itself of non-banking activities and
strengthening its role as a rural financial institution; research and extension
services would be made more effective by strengthening their collaboration in
promoting adoption of appropriate technical packages; private sector would be
given opportunities to participate in technology generation and dissemination,
as well as in assisting investors; and private investors, traders, and rural
entrepreneurs would be assisted through provision of credit facilities and
training programs to improve and expand their services. The utilization of
several channels, such as universities, input suppliers and rural enterprises,
would provide alternative channels to Government provided services and help
enhance competition and efficiency.
2.          The project benefits would accrue from increasing crop yields,
reducing crop input usage needs, lessening post harvest-losses and enhancing
product value through processing and marketing services. These direct benefits
would result in an economic rate of return of about 38% for the project.
Although the agro-related enterprises and on-farm technology package components
of the project would generally complement each other in improving rural income
and in enhancing crop production, the components are analyzed separately to bring
into better perspective their distinct cost and benefit structures.
B. Economic AnalysIs
On-Farm Teclboloay Package Component of The Proiect
3.          This  component  focuses on enhancing crop yield  and  resource
efficiency through adopting row crop production systems, mechanizing and
modernizing secondary farm operations, and improving irrigation and drainage
efficiency. In Egypt, machinery services are provided both through specialized
custom  service operators, and through neighboring farmer groups.   These
arrangements have proven to be appropriate for Egypt's numerous smallholders.
Economic analysis of this component was made on the basis of a 10,000 fed model
as represented in Annex 1 to capture the benefit of recommended equipment and
modernization program. Although adoption of these improved technologies benefits
all crops, the project only claimed benefit for those crops which lent themselves
to row planting systems such as wheat, barley, beans, sugar beet, flax, lentils,
maize,  rice,  sorghum,  soybeans,  peanuts,  sesame,  etc.    It was  assumed
conservatively that their (i) yield would increase by 15%; (ii)input application



- 135 -
Page 2 of 4
(seed,fertilizer and labor) would be reduced by 10%1 and (iii) adoption rate
would gradually increase from 30,000 fed during the first year of the project
(about 0.5% of the planted area) to 480,000 fed by the seven year of the project
(about 6% of the planted area).
4.          World Bank price projections were used to estimate farm-gate economic
prices in constant 1993 terms for traded inputs and outputs (see Tables 4 and 5),
and for non-traded goods financial prices are assumed to represent economic
prices (Table 6). The component cost and benefit are derived on the basis of the
farm model.  The model's operation costs and benefits are presented in Table 7.
The economic investment cost of equipments is based on the retail market prices
prevailing in June 1993, adjusted by 10% sale tax and an additional 5% import
duties for imported equipment. A useful life of eight years was considered for
the equipment and no scrap-value was claimed after their assumed service life of
eight years.   All economic values were converted to local currency at the
official exchange rate of LE 3.332 to one US dollar. The shadow wage rate was
assumed to be the same as the financial wage rate. A Standard Conversion Factor
(SCF) of 0.907 was applied toward the project's not-tradable cost and benefits
to adjust for remaining economic distortions. The ERR takes into account all
investment costs as presented in the model for farm equipment and irrigation
upgrading.   It was further assumed that investments in farm equipment and
irrigation improvement schemes would induce crop production increase after a six
month lag period.
5.          Based on these assumptions, the component economic rate of return
(ERR) was calculated to be 38.6% and its financial rate of return (FRR) to be
27.0% (Table 8). The reason for the lower FRR compared to that of ERR was mainly
due to (i) inclusion of about 15% taxes and import duties in financial investment
cost; and (ii) financial price for wheat being about 30% lower than its economic
price at farmgate. Wheat dominates row crops area and constitutes about 30% of
the planted area in Egypt. The net present value of the component, discounted
at 13.5%, amounted to about LE 81.4 million.  This  component at its full
development stage would result in an incremental crop production benefit of about
LE 82 million (in constant 1993 prices) per annum. In addition the project would
save about LE 2 million worth of seeds and about LE 14 million worth of
fertilizer yearly. While the project reduces the yearly demand for unskilled
labor by about 7,500 persons, this reduction should not be translated as
displacement of labor as it enables part of the labor shortage in critical
periods to be met. In addition, the component would increase the yearly demand
for skilled labor by about 5,100 persons at the farm, and it would create
additional job opportunities in machinery repair, production handling, transport,
processing, and marketing services. The component at its seventh year would
provide benefits to about 240,000 farm families.
6.          Sensitivity Analysis. Switching values indicate that the investment
would remain viable under a wide range of alternatives (at a discounted rate of
13.5%).



- 136 -
ANA7
Page 3 of 4
Table 1. Switching Values of Critical Variables
Variables                            Switching Values
Benefit From Crop Production               -32%
Benefit from Input Usage                   -97%
Investment Cost                            +76%
Operating Cost                             +54%
Total Benefits                             -24%
Total Costs                                +32%
Although ERR is moderately sensitive to changes in total benefits and total cost,
the economic rate of return would be 13.5% if total benefit drops by  24% or if
total cost goes up more than 31%. However, the component benefit is unlikely to
come down: Farm surveys show yield gains of more than 20 percent from usage of
secondary mechanization and improved farm management practices.  Crop yield
increases which constitute more than 70% of the component total benefits is
conservatively assumed to be only 15%.  Also, prices of farm equipment and
machineries is expected to remain stable as manufactures and exporters world wide
are gaining access to Egyptian markets and competition for private custom service
operations is expanding at a fast pace in Egypt. In addition, the project would
be instrumental in facilitating appropriate technology and in giving farmers and
small and medium scale custom service operators a chance to select and purchase
the technology of their choice which offers the best chance of success.
Agro-related Ente:rrises
7.          A conducive atmosphere has been emerging for expanding rural
enterprises as a result of the country's liberalized economic policy and the
government's desire to improve rural income and employment. Recent experience
under the ongoing Second Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2561-EGT)
indicated that there is considerable scope for expanding rural private
investmnents, provided the needed technical, financial and market intelligence
services could be brought within the reach of such entrepreneurs. It is not
feasiblfe to predict the pattern of investment demand for the numerous types of
rural enterprises. For purposes of this project analysis, four prototypes of
agro-related enterprises (i.e., small-scale custom service operation, medium-
scale custom service operation, small-scale rice and wheat milling, and medium-
scale horticultural sorting and packing station) have been selected.
8.          Economic cost of the prototype investments includes operating costs,
investment costs, and additional working capital needed by the enterprise. The
average economic life of each enterprise is estimated between 8 and 10 years, and
direct transfer payments including taxes, duties and subsidies were deducted from
financial prices to reflect the economic value of a particular enterprise. A SCF
of 0.907 was applied toward the non-tradable costs and benefits of individual
enterprises. The economic and financial rates of return which were calculated
for these industries are presented below, and their detailed income and cash-flow
statements are presented in Tables 9 through 16.



- 137 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
Table 2. Financial and Economic Rates of Return
for a Selected Number of Prototype Models
Prototyie Models
I.   A Small Scale Custom Service
Operation                           24%                29%
II. A Medium Scale Custom Service
operation                           27%                38%
III.   A Small Scale Rice and Wheat
Mill                                29%                41%
IV.    A Medium Scale Sorting and
Packing Industry                    39%                48%
9.          Sensitivity Analysis.   Switching value analysis indicates that
benefits would have to fall by the ranges of 19% to 47% or costs increase by 23%
to 88% for the ERR to fall to the level of the opportunity cost of capital of
13.5%. These figures indicate a fairly robust ERR.
Table 3. Switching Values of Critical Variables
Variables                           Switching Values
Total Cost Increase    Total Benefit decrease
t                       t
A small-scale custom                    +23                     -19
operation
A medium-scale custom                   +32                     -24
operator
A small-scale rice and                  +88                     -47
wheat mill
A medium-scale sorting and              +79                     -44
packing station



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Computation of Economic Farmoate Prices 1/
Wheat      Maize 21      Rice 21
Projected FOB Price (1993)11          US$1ton          162          104          280
Ocean Freight and Insurance           US$Iton           32           32           32
CIFIFOB Port Alexandria               US$1ton          194          136          248
CIF/FOB Port Alexandria               LE/ton           646          453          826
Quality Adjustment 21                 LE/ton                         91
Port Charges and Handling             LEJton            30           40          30
ImporterlExporter Charges             LE/ton            30           30          55
Transp. Port-Wholesale                LE/ton            45           65          45
Price at Retail Market                LE/ton           751          497         696
Processing Costs                                                                 30
Farm to Retail Market Trans           LE/ton            25           25          25                                 X
Conversion Ratio                      LE/ton             1            1         0.64
Economic Farmgate Price 3/            LEtton           726          472         442
1/ Source: "Quarterly Review of Commodity Markets--March 1993' Intemational Trade Division, Intemational
Economics Department, The World Bank, May 19,1993.
21 A 20% discount factor on the price of yellow U.S. No. 2 maize is used to reflect lower price of domestically
produced white maize price in Egyptian retail market.
3/ The farm gate prices of wheat and maize are derived on the basis of import parity and the price of rice (paddy)
Is derived on the basis of export parity.



AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Comoutation of Economic Farmoate Prices
Potasium
Urea               TSP           Salphate
ProJected FOB Prices (1993) 11        US$Iton       118                115                208
Ocean Freight and Insurance           US$/ton        25                 25                 25
CIF Port Alexandria                   US$1ton       143                140                233
CIF Port Alexandria                   LE/ton        478                466                776
Port Charges and Handling             LElton         22                 40                 22
Trans. Port to Wholesale              LElton         25                 25                 25
Trans. Wholesale to Farm              LE/ton         20                 20                 20
Economic Farmgate Price 2/                          543                551                843
1/ Source: "Quarterly Review of Commodity Markets-March 1993", Intemationai (rade Division, Intemational Economics
Department, The World Bank, May 19, 1993.
2/ The farmgate prices were derived on the basis of import parity; and since TSP is traded in bulk, an additional
LE 30/ton was added on port charges and handling cost to cover its bagging costs.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices (in 1993 Constant Term)
(in LE)
Unit           Financial*          Economic
Outputs
Wheat                   ton                 526                726
Maize                  ton                 435                 472
Rice (paddy)            ton                 455                442
Barley                 ton                 362                 362
Sorghum                 ton                451                 451
Faba Beans              ton                1058               1058
Lentils                ton                 1500               1500
Flax                    ton                 680                680
Sesame                  ton                l800               1800
Soybeans                ton                 800                800
Sunflower               ton                765                 765
Peanuts                 ton                1300               1300
Sugar-beets            ton                  60                  60
Inputs
Urea                    kg                 0.52                0.54
TSP                     kg                 0.47                0.55
Potasium Sulphate       kg                 0.84                 84
Labor            Person/day                  6                   6
1/ Finanial prices were based on retail market quoations, and data provided by PBDAC and MALR.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Incremental Economic Benefit and Cost for 10,000 fd Model 1/
Area 2/  Price   Inc  Produc.     Savings From Reduced Input Usage                    Equip.lnc.  Total
in    LE/ yield      Rev           Seed             Fertlizer      Labor         Oper. Cost Oper. Ben.
fd  ton 3  kg/fd     LE       Kglf      LE   kglfd        LE  Jfd   LE 4/         LE S         LE
Winter Crops
Wbeat             3250    726   285   672458        6.0   14157      S0      87750  4.0     70746      296796         548315
Barley             250    362   165    14933        6.0     543      50       6750  4.0      5442       22830            4837
Faba Beans         630   1058   165   109979        6.0    3999      25       8505  5.0     17142       57533           82093
Sugarbeet           90      60  2700    14580       0.3       2    100        4860  5.5      2694        8219           13916
Flax                90    680   420   25704         0.6       37     50       2430 5.0       2449        8219          22401
Lentils             90   1500   120    16200        6.0      810     25       1215  5.0      2449        8219           12455
Summer Crops
Maize             2880    472   345   468979        1.5    2039      S0      77760 4.0      62692      263007         348463        I
Rice              1960    442   405   350860        6.0    5198      S0      52920 4.0      42665      178991         272652
Sorghum            640    451   270    77933        1.2      346     S0      17280 4.0      13932       58446          51045
Soybeans           220    800   165   29040         4.0     704      S0       5940  4.0      4789       20091          20382
Peanuts             60   1300   135    10530        5.0     390      S0       1620 5.0       1633        5479           8693
Sesame              60   1800    75      8100       0.4      43      50       1620 5.0       1633        5479           5916
Sunflower          240    765   225   41310         0.6      110     50       6480  5.5      7183       21917          33166
Nili Crops
Maize              880    472   240   99686         2.0     831      S0      23760 4.0      19156       80363          63070
Sorghum             20    451   210      1894       2.0       18     50        540  4.0       435        1826            1061
Total              11360               1942185              29227            299430         255039      1037415        1488467
l/ For the models investmet cost see Annx 1
2/ The individual crop area in the model was derived on the basis of the estimated share of each crop in 1990 plantiig seasons.
3/ For the detailed derivation of crop prices see tables 4 and 6.                                                                c
41 A SCF of 0.907 was applied on labor costs.                                                                                    0
5/ The incremental operating costs were calculated on the basis of additional cost incurred as a rewlt of ienta mahNy needs         - 
ad land Ievelling requirents; and a SCF of 0.907 was applied on non-tradable portion of tdis cost.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Fe" Inwstment
. ..... ...... ..... ........ _... ...._.__............... .. .......... I............. . .... ______.... ___...... ........... . .._...... ...... ...........-__-............. __.... ......
1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8         9        10         11        12        13         14
. .,..............................._. .. ............... ............................... ............................ ......................................................................  ............  .. ___  __.__._   
Costs.
Equipment Invest. Costs         11948    11946    23J97    35046    3546    35846    35846                                      -          -              -              -
Field Increm. Oper.  Costs        3112      6224    12449    21786    31122    40458    49796    49796    46684    43571    37347    28010    16673                    9336
Total Costs                     15060    16172    36346    57632    66960    76304    05642    49796    46684    43571    37347    28010    18673                     9336
B. Benefits
Increaental Production           2913       8740    17480    32046    49526    67005    84485    93224    07398    81572    69919    52438    349s9    17480
Reduced Input Usge                1751      3s02      7004    12257    17510    22764    28017    26017    26226    24515    21013    15760    10500                   5532
Total Benefits                    4664    12242    24484    44303    67036    69769   112502   121241   113624   106087    90932    68198    45459    23012
C. Net Benefits
............... I
Net Benefits                   -10396    -5930   -11862   -13329             68    13465    26860    11445    64940    62S16    O3585    40108    26786    13676                          w
10/31/1993 16:12
------ ---R- ER    38 . 6%
___________________ ____F w27. %--------- - --------                   FR- 20 - - - --    --- ---
0 13



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRCULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
A Srnall Scale Custom Service Ooerator Income Statement 11
('000 LE)
Year                                  1       2       3       4       5      6       7       8       9      10
Revenue 21                   No.
Combina                       2    55.0   110.0   110.0   110.0  110.0   110.0  110.0  110.0  110.0   110.0
Ridger                        2    17.6   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2   35.2
Row planter                   2    26.4   52.8   52.8   52.8   52.8   52.8   52.8   52.8   52.8   52.8
Tota                                99.0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0  198.0
Otwratina g:xDenditur
Drver 3t                      4     3.6    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2
Laborer 31                    5     3.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Other O&M cost 41                  39.4   78.8   78.8   78.8   78.8   78.8   78.8   78.8   78.8   78.8
Total                               46.0   92.0   92.0   92.0   92.0   92.0   92.0   92.0   92.0   92.0
Gross Operating Income              63.0  106.0   106.0  106.0  106.0  106.0  106.0  106.0  106.0  106.0
Non Operaina Expenditures
Depreciation 5/                    20.9   44.7   44.7   44.7   44.7   44.7   44.7   44.7   44.7   44.7
Interest paid                       0.0   41.0   33.0   24.0   16.0    8.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Net Operating Income Before Tax     32.1    20.3   28.3   37.3   45.3   53.3   61.3   61.3   61.3   61.3
Taxes 6/                             8.0    5.1    7.1    9.3   11.3   13.3   15.3   16.3   15.3   15.3
Net Income                          24.1    15.2   21.2   28.0   34.0   40.0   46.0   46.0   46.0   46.0
1/ The revenue and expense data were extracted from dffferent reports provided by PBDAC and AERI, and were based on prevailing
costs and charges in 1993; It was assumed conservatively that machineries operate 10 hours/day and 110 days/year.
2/ Based on the field experience, the coverage time for a combine is assumed to be 120 minutestfed, and for a row planter and a ridger each
assumed to be 30 minutes/fed; charges per fed were calculated on the basis of LE 1001fed for rice combine, LE 12/tfed
for row planter and LE 8/fed for ridger.
3/ A driver was paid LEI 50/month and a laborer received LEI 00/month.
4/ Other O&M costs assumed 20% of total invesment cost.
5t Depreciation was calculated on the basis of 10 years service Hfe for the machinery, and 20 years for the building.
6J Assumed to be 25% of net income before tax.



ARAB REPUBUC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
A Smal Scale Custom Sevice Financial Cash Flow Analysis
('000 LE)
Year                                    1       2       3       4       5        6       7       8       9      10
Investment                    No.
rombines                       2    80.0
Row planter                    2    16.0
Ridger                         2      3.0
Tractor                        2   180.0
Vehicle                        1    55.0
Building and Land 11                 60.0
Total                               394.0
Operation Expenditures               46.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0    92.0
Taxes                                 8.0      5.1     7.1     9.3    11.3    13.3    15.3    15.3    15.3    15.3
Revenue                              99.0   198.0   198.0   198.0   198.0   198.0   198.0   198.0   198.0   243.0
Net Cash-Flow Before Financing      (349.0)  100.9    98.9    96.7    94.7    92.7    90.7    90.7    90.7   135.7
Financina 21
Equity                              137.9
Loan                                256.1
Debt service                          0.0    92.2    88.2    80.0    71.8    63.6
Net Cash-flow After Financing        45.0     8.7    10.7    16.7    22.9    29.1    90.7    90.7    90.7   135.7
FRR                                                                        24.00%                                  w z
ERR                                                                        29.30%                                  _ 
11 While the land value (LE 30,000) was treated as an Investment cost in the project's first year, it was reclaimed as a
a revenue in fe project's final year.
Pi Financing was assumed to be shared by 36% owner's equity and 65% by a bank loan (an Interest of 16% was assumed on the bank loan).



AHAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
A Medium Scale Custom Service Ooerator Income Statement 11
('000 LE)
oar                                  1        2        3        4        5        6         7
evenue 2/                   No
aser Leveller               2    360.0   720.0   720.0   720.0   720.0   720.0    720.0   720.0
aIgger with Loader           1     75.0    150.0    150.0    150.0    150.0   150.0    150.0   150.0
eed drill                   6      43.2    86.4    86.4    86.4    86.4    86.4          86.4    86.4
lulidozer                   2    150.0   300.0   300.0    300.0   300.0   300.0    300.0   300.0
tal                               628.2  1,256.4  1,256.4  1,256.4  1,256.4  1,258.4   1,256.4  1,256.4
gerating gxeenditures
Wriver 3J                   30     27.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0          54.0    54.0
aborer 31                   10      6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0          12.0    12.0
ther O&M cost 4/                  255.0    510.0    510.0    510.0   510.0   510.0    510.0   510.0
)tal                              288.0   576.0   576.0   576.0   576.0   576.0    576.0   576.0
ross Operating Income             340.2   680.4    680.4   680.4   680.4   680.4    680.4   680.4
Dn-Ooeratino Ex2enses 5/
lepreciation                      127.6   273.2   273.2   273.2   273.2   273.2    273.2   273.2
iterest paid                        0.0   222.0    178.0    133.0    89.0    44.0
at Operating Income Before Tax    212.6    185.2   229.2   274.2   318.2   363.2    407.2   407.2
ixes 61                            53.2    46.3    57.3    68.6    79.6    90.8    101.8   101.8
3t Income                         159.5   138.9   171.9   205.7   238.7   272.4    305.4   305.4
The revenue and expense data are based on actual Information provided by a medium scale custom operator In Dakhallya; prices of
mnachineries were updated to reflect their market prices in 1993; and due to intensive usage, machineries are assumed to have a
service life of 8 years.
Laser leveller worked 240 days/year for 10 hr/day for LE 150/fed with an operation time of one hour/fed; digger with loader and bulldozer,
300 days, Ohr/day, for LE 50/hr; and seed drill, 60 daystyear, 10 hrlday, for LE 12/fed with an operation time of 30 minutes/fd.
The drivers were paid LE 150/month and the laborers received LE 1 00/month.
Other O&M cost amounted to about 25% of total Investment cost.
Depreciation was calculated on the basis of 8 years service life for the machinery, and 20 years for the building.
Assumed to be 25% of net operating income.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
A Medium Custom Service Financial Cash Flow Analysis
('000 LE)
'ear                                  1        2        3        4        5        6         7        8
ivestment                   No
Aer Leveller Unit            2    150.0
rractor 85 HP                8    720.0
igger with loader            1    500.0
;eed drill                   6      60.0
3ulidozer                    2    500.0
fehicIe                      2    110.0
kuldlng and Land 1/                100.0
Dtal                             2,140.0
peration Expenditures             288.0    $76.0   576.0   576.0    576.0    576.0    576.0   576.0
axes                               53.2    46.3      57.3    68.6      79.6    90.8    101.8    101.8
evenue                            628.2  1,256.4  1,256.4  1,256.4  1,256.4  1,25B.4   1,258.4  1,331.4
et Cash-Flow Before Financing   (1853.0)   634.1    623.1    611.8    600.8    589.6    578.6    653.6
Inancina 2/
*quity                            749.0
.oan                             1,391.0
)ebt Service                               448.3   403.5    363.1    322.8    282.5
et cash-flow after financing      270.8    185.8   219.6    248.7    278.0    307.1      578.6    653.6
RiR                                                        27036
RR                                                                            3&509
While the land value (LE 50,000) was treated as an Investment cost In the project's first year , It was reclaimed as a revenue in the
the project's final year.
I Financina was assumed to be shared by 3596 owners wulty and 6596 bank loan tan Interest of 1696 was assumed on he bank loan).



ARAB REPUBUC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Income Statement for a Small Scale Rice and Whea MiIIl
(in'000 LE)
Year                    1      2      3      4      6      6      7      8      9     10
Revenue                     62.4   62.4   62.4   62.4  62.4   62.4  62.4   62.4  62.4
QDeaMina Exoeniditur-e
Wage and Salaries 31         3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6
Energy 4/                    4.8   4.8   4.8    4.8   4.8   4.8    4.8   4.8   4.8
Maintenanee Cost 4t          1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
Other Operating Exp. 41      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Total                        10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6  10.6   10.6  10.6   10.6   10.6
Gross Operating Income      51.8   51.8   51.8   51.8   51.8   51.8   51.8  51.8   51.8
DepreciatIon 5t              9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6
InterestPaid6/              15.5   13.3  11.1    89    6.6   4.4   2.1
Income Before Tax           26.7  28.9  31.1   33.3  35.6   37.8  40.1   42.2  42.2
Tax                          6.7    7.2   7.8   8.3   8.9   9.5   10.0   10.5  10.5
Net Income                  20.0   21.7  23.3   25.0  26.7  28.3  30.1   31.7  31.7
1/ Based on field data, the wheat mill output amounted to about .3 tons/hour and for rice mill about .5 tons/hour;
these mills were assumed to operate 250 days per year (16 hours for 150 days during the peak demand
and 8 hours per day for the remaining 100 days).
2/ Revenue is calculated on the basis of LE 40 and LE 15 per ton for wheat and rice milling services, respectively.
31 Salaries were calculated on the basis of three workers, with monthly payment of LE 100 each.
4/ Based on data assembled by the mission from the field.
51 Based on 10% depreciation allowance for machinery and 596 for the building; land was assumed to maintain its original value  cr
and therefore no depreciation was considered for land.
61 Calculated on the basis of 26% corporate Income tax.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
9
Small Scale Wheat and Rice Mill Income Statement Analysis
(in million LE)
Year                            1      2      3      4       6      6      7      8      9       10
Investment
Land                         30.0
Building                     25.0
Equipment                    84.0
Total                       139.0
Working Capit 1/              1.8
Operating Expenditures               10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6   10.6      10.6
Tax                                  6.7    7.2    7.8    8.3    8.9    9.5   10.0   10.5       10.5
Revenue                             62.4   62.4   62.4   62.4   62.4   62.4   62.4   62.4    104.9                  c
Net Cash-Flow Before Flnancina  (140.8)  45.1   44.6   44.0   43.5   42.9   42.3   41.8   41.3  83.8
Financing 21
Equity                       49.3
Loan                         91.5
Debt Services                       26.7   24.5   22.4   20.3   18.1   13.9
Net Cash-Flow After Financing  1.8   18.4   20.1   21.6   23.2   24.8   28.4   41.8   41.3      83.8
FRR                                              28.80%
ERR                                              41.30%
1 Working capital estimated at two months of operating expenditures.
2/ Calculated on the basis of 35% owner's and 66% bank financing, with interest at 18% for loan.



ARAB REPUBUC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Income Statement ftor a Medium Scale Fruit and Vegetable Sortina and Packina Indutr 1/
-(n'000 LE)
3ar                              1        2        3        4        5         6        7        8        9       10
itevnue 2                               795    1,569    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589
Woerating Expenditures
Nages and Salaries                       65       6S       65       65        65       65       65       65       65
Energy                                   51      102      102       102      102      102      102      102      102
Uaintenance Cost 3/                     257      257      257      257       257      257      257      257      257
3therOperating Expenses                  15       30       30       30       30       30        30       30       30
otal                                    388      454      454      454      454       454      454      454      454
;rossOperatingincome                    407    1,135    1,135    1,135    1,13S    1,135    1,135    1,135    1,135
spreclation 4/                          154      154      154      154       154      154      154      154      154  -
terest Paid 5/                          208      179      149      119        89       60
Icome Before Tax                         45      802      832      862       892      921      981      981      981
ax61                                     11      201      208      216      223       230      245      245      245
let Income                               34      602      624      647      669       691      736      736      736
f The data extracted from a feasibility study carried out In 1991; the plant with an estimated capacity of 2 tons/hour provides sorting,
grading, packing, and cooling services both for export and domestic markets.
f It has been assumed that it would take one year for the construction to be completed and during the second year the plant would operate
with a 60% capacity; and it would charge LE .3/kg for packing and sorting for export market and LE .05/kg for domestic market,
packing materials would be provided by the customers.                                                              
f Assumed to be 20% of equipment and 5% of building costs.
f Depreciation is calculated on the basis of 5% for civil works and 10% for vehicles and equipment.
r Calculated on the basis of 18% per annum.                                                                       , .
I Assumed to be 25% of net operating Income.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Cash-Flow Analysis for a Medium Scale Fruit and Vegetable Sorting and Packing Industry
(in'000 LE)
0Ar                            1.0        2        3        4        5         6        7        8        9       10
wvestment
and 1I                       214.0
3uilding                     245.0
Equipment                   1,200.0
atw                         1,659.0
Vortdng Capital 2/           227.0
:perating Expendctures                  388      454      454      464       454      454      454      454      454
-ax                                       8      198      206       214      222      230      246      245      248
levenue                        0.0      794    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,589    1,928  °
lt CaFlow Before Financing  (1.888.0)   398      937      929       921      913      905      890      890    1,227
inancing
Equity                       6M00
Loan                        1,226.0
Debt Service                            383      354      324       294      264      235
Iet Cash-flow after Financing  130.0     18      583      605       627      649      670      890      890    1,108
'RR                                                     38.90%
.RR                                                     47.60%
1/ Includes land acquisition costs and civil works costs.
I Working capital is calculated on the basis of 50% of yearly operating cost.
I While the value of land was treated as an investment cost in the project's first year, it was reclaimed as a revenue
In the project's final year.



- 151 -
ANNEX 
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTMRAL NODERNIZIAN PRJE&CT
Bank S-upervision Input Into Key Activities
Approximate                                   Expected Skill   Staff Input
Date:                    Activity            Requirements      (Staff weeks)
(Month/Year)
6/94-7/94    Supervision Mission          Financial             12
Analyst, Agri.
Project Launch Workshop.   Economist,
Familiarize the project's  Institutional
executing staff and         specialist,
interested commercial       Agro-business
banks with the detailed    Specialist.
project objectives and
implementation
arrangements; Review
project's implementation
timetable, progress
report's format, and
staffing (both local and
international experts).
10/94        Review progress on: the    Financial               6
bench mark survey,          Analyst,
implementation of the       Agri.Economist,
PBDAC business plan,        Training
training program,           Specialist.
redeployment program,
institutional
coordination between
PBDAC and MALR.
3/95         Review Pilot RRES            Financial             7
progress and PBDAC's        Analyst,
staff redeployment          Agronomist,
program, business plan      Economist
and monitoring system,
and commercial Bank
participation.
7/95         Review project              Agro-business          6
implementation progress    Specialist,
especially those related   Agri.
to agro-related             Economist,
activities, training        Training
program, environmental      Specialist
program and transfer of
technology.



ANNEX 8
- 152 -                         Page 2 of 2
Approximate                                   Expected Skill  Staff Input
Dates                    Activity            Requirements      (Staff weeks)
(Month/Year)
6/96         Reviews PBDAC business       Financial             7
plan, project's training   analyst,
program, result of impact  Irrigation
studies, commercial bank   Agronomist,
lending operation,          Agri.
project's lending for up-  Economist.
grading irrigation
system, and progress in
technology transfer
activities.
9/96'        Review progress in PBDAC   Financial               12
business plan, effect of   Analyst,
organization and            Environmental
management study on PBDAC  Specialist,
operation, extend of        Agri.Economist,
commercial bank             Institutional
participation in the        Specialist
project, effectiveness of
the technology transfer
arrangements in the three
pilot areas, and
effectiveness of training
given to PBDAC and MALR
staff in environmental
screening of sub-projects
12/96*       Follow-up on the            Agricultural           6
recommendation of the       Economist/agron
mid-term review and         omist,
decide on the action to    Institutional
be followed for             Specialist.
implementing mid-term
review recommendation
1997 to 2001    Two supervision/year and   (to be
last mission should         determined
discuss with borrower       following Mid-
preparation of Completion  term Review)
Report
K. Mid-term Review.



- 153 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Nonitoring. Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment
1.          Setting up a proper monitoring and evaluation framework for this
project is of paramount importance for its proper execution, as the project will
be implemented during a period of economic transition. PBDAC, the project's main
beneficiary and executing agency is committed to establishing itself as a viable
rural banking institution and has already been undergoing a fundamental
restructuring  of  its  responsibilities  and  institutional  changes.    The
agricultural research and extension services also desire to restructure and
develop themselves as technical advisory service entities, functioning on the
basis of client demand.   Under these circumstances, timely monitoring and
establishment of appropriate feedback mechanisms to project management is
essential to address emerging implementation problems. Evaluation and impact
studies are needed to gauge the effectiveness of the project in achieving its
stated objectives: to increase agricultural productivity and rural employment,
and to strengthen institutional capacity of rural banking and, on a pilot basis,
technical transfer services of extension and research at the field.
2.          The  Project  Management  Department  (PMD)  will  have  overall
responsibility for implementing this subcomponent. The following arrangements
and reporting for this purpose are envisioneds (a) PMD with the assistance of
Evaluation and Follow up Unit (EFU) of the PBDAC's Planning Sector, and the
project's extension and research entities will be responsible for the physical
and financial monitoring of the project. PND will summarize its findings in a
monthly monitoring report and present it to PBDAC management and the project's
Steering Committee. EFU, with the assistance of Management Information Service
(MIS), has automated its data collection and analysis work recently. EFU is
responsible, as a central unit, to address the monitoring needs of PBDAC and has
already initiated a systematic work program in this connection. EFU will provide
key indicators concerning financial performance of PBDAC as a whole, and it will
also assemble financial monitoring data specific to the project.  Under the
project, EFU will be provided with appropriate computer facilities to enable it
to conduct additional work concerning this project. Each project unit will
monitor own physical progress for its line manager and provide a monthly progress
report to this effect to PMD; (b) PMD with the assistance of the concerned
components will launch, as deemed appropriate, beneficiary assessment and impact
studies so that proper decision could be taken to improve project performance;
(c) PMD will prepare and submit to the Bank a progress report every six months
portraying a separate account on each component, general financial indicators to
show PBDAC performance in rural banking operations, and results of impact
studies; (d) under the project provision is made to have employ consultants to
conduct an initial household , a mid-term, and a terminal survey (in project



- 154 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
years 1, 3 and 7)1 and (e) a joint mid-term project evaluation by the Bank and
the Government which would be carried out at the end of the third year to advise
on any requisite readjustment in the project components, design, organization and
institution.
3.          An important objective of the project is to strengthen PBDAC, and
during the period of economic transition, to support it to develop itself as a
viable financial intermediary.   Under the project, therefore, PBDAC's key
financial  indicators,   in  particular  disbursement,   collection,  deposit
mobilization, loan recovery and aging of arrears will be closely reviewed and its
performance ratios closely monitored. These ratios include interest earning
assets to total assets, interest margin, pre-tax net profit to average total
assets, pre-tax profit to equity, and operating expenses to net interest income.
In addition, the project's monthly monitoring report will review the progress on
civil works, staff recruitment and retirement, training programs, demonstration
of technology, procurement of equipment and vehicles, and problems encountered
during the month.
4.          An initial survey will be conducted to establish bench marks for mid-
term and final evaluation. The survey should be organized in modules appropriate
to evaluating the project's development impact and institutional streamlining on
beneficiaries. The questions should be formulated to be relevant to the project
objectives and include information on the level of rural income, farm size and
ownership, employment situation (segregated by gender) on farm and off farm;
production by type of crops, intensity, yield and level of inputs usage per
feddan; type of farm machines use in the farm and their sources of supplier -
farmers, custom service operators or government mechanization stations; use of
secondary mechanization in planting, weeding, and harvesting; inventory and
status of agri-business and post harvest technology; the status of on farm water
management practices and method of irrigation system; the number of village banks
and technology transfer specialist and extension workers in the sample districts,
and the frequency of interaction between rural bank and extension staff; and
importance of rural bank in provision of rural credit and deposit. The initial
survey should commence as soon as the project becomes effective and hence enable
evaluation and analysis to be completed by the end of the first year of the
project implementation. This survey should be followed by a mid-term and a
terminal survey to assess the project impact.
5.          Toward the end of third year, a mid-term evaluation review will be
conducted.  For this purpose, a preliminary mid-term report would be prepared
by PMD with the assistance of consultants. The main focus of this report should
be to gauge the effectiveness of the project in strengthening the rural banking
institution and to evaluate the appropriateness of the pilot technical
research/extension delivery system.  Also, the report will provide an indepth
review of the project's physical and financial performance, staff recruitment,
early retirement and turnover against the appraisal targets; and it will analyze



- 155 -
ANNE 9
Page 3 of 3
factors that gave rise to the implementation success or failure. In addition,
this report will use the result of the mid term survey and review the project
impact on investors (farmers, traders, custom service operators, and small and
medium scale investors) and seek ways to ensure sustainability of technology
transfer mechanism, especially that of extension information centers. Although
it is recognized that it may be too early to gauge the project's full impact on
its beneficiaries, it will be useful to examine the success of project against
the ERE and FRR calculated during the project appraisal, and against the
established bench mark indicators derived in the project's first year of
implementation.   Upon completion of this report, a joint Bank and government
mid-term evaluation review mission will be engaged to review the project's
performance with a view to readjust, if necessary, the project's design,
components, and institutional sit-up.
6.          Within six months of the completion of the Loan/Credit disbursements,
PND would prepare for submission to the Bank Group, its part of a Project
completion Report (PCR). The terminal survey should be launched in lead time so
that some of its results could be incorporated into the PCR. The PCR would
assess: the project's impact on the PBDAC institution development, on small scale
and medium scale investors and small farmers; financial and economic rates of
return on representative investments compared to appraisal estimates; effects on
upgrading production technology; performance of individual project components;
sustainablity of technology transfer operations; problems experienced in
subproject implementation; and lessons learned.



- 156 -
ANNEX 9
Table 1
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
Tarcet for the Year     Act. Achievement
Value in              Value in
I.    PBDAC OVERALL PERFORMANCE      No  (LEOOO0            N  ILEO000
A. Loan disbursement
a. Short-term
b. Medium term
c. long-term
B. Recovery Rate
a. Short-term
b. Medium-term
c. Long-term
C. Sources of Funds
a. Deposit
b. Commercial Bank
c. Investment Loan (local)
d. Foreign Loan
e. Others
D. Financial Ratios
a.  Interest Earning Assets     Percent
to Total Assets
b.  Interest Margin             Percent
c.  Pre-tax Net Profit          Percent
to Total Avr. Assets
d.  Pre-tax profits to          Percent
Equity
e.  Operating Expenses to       Percent
net Interest Income
E. Personnel
a.  Early Retirement            Number
b.  Normal Retirement           Number



- 157 -
ANNEX 9
Table 1
Page 2 of 3
II.   SPECIFIC TO IBRD LOAN          Target for the Year Act.Achievement
value in         Value in
No0     (LE'OO0       N   (LE'0001
A. Disbursement Through PBDAC
a. Primary Machinery
b. Secondary Machinery
c. Agr. Input Trading
d. Dealership and Services
e. Water Man. Investment
f. Other Rural Enterprises
g. Importers
B.  Disbursement by Participating Commer. Bank
a. Primary Machinery
b. Secondary Machinery
c. Agr. input trading
d. Dealership and Services
e. Water Management Investment
f. other Rural Enterprises
Appraisal       Actual
III. SPECIFIC TO IDA CREDIT                        Tarcet         Achievement
A. Staff Anpointment
a.  Subject Mater Specialist           Number               12
b.  Technology Transfer Specialist    Number               165
c.  Staffing Agro-Enter. Dep (PBDAC)  Number                 S
d.  Staffing On-Farm Dep (PBDAC)       Number                4
e.  Staffing Environ. Unit (PBDAC)    Number                  3
B. Training
a.  Foreign for PBDAC Staff            Staff Month         770
b.  Foreign for ARC Staff              Staff Month          30
c.  Foreign for Extension              Staff Month          20
d.  Local for PBDAC/Annum              Staff Year            6
e.  Local for SMS                      Staff Month          63
f.  Local for TTS/Annum                Staff Month         922
g.  Local for VEW/Annum                Staff Month          60
h.  Demonstrations                     Number             2875
i.  Meetings                           Number              804



- I58 -
Table 1
Page 3 of 3
C.  Consultant
a.  Foreign for PBDAC                  Staff Month
b.  Local for PBDAC                    Staff Month
c.  Local for REC                      Staff Month
d.  Local for Extension                Staff Month
D.  Civil Works
a.  Village Banks                      Number             20
b.  Extension Information Center       Number             39
c.  Staff Quarters (Nubariya REC)      Number             20
d.  Expansion of Admin in REC8         Number              2
e.  Staff quarters for extension       Number              3
f.  Progress Rehab. of Nubariya REC   Percent
S. Procurement
a.  Minibus                            Number
b.  4-WD double Cabin Pick-up          Number
c.  Motorcycles                        Number
d.  Computer                           Number
e. Photocopier                         Number
d.  A&V Equipment                      (LE'000)
F. Studies



- 1S9 -
AMN1 10
A"AB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
PreDaration
1.    "Agricultural Modernization Project," Preparation Mission, FAO/World Bank
Cooperation Program, December 19, 1991.
2.    Working Paper: "Agricultural Technology Transfer and Demonstrations,"
April 1992.
3.    Working Papers "Generation of On-Farm Crop Production
Technologies and Farming Systems," April 1992.
4.    Working Paper: "Marketing and Small-Scale Processing,"
May 1992.
5.    Working Paper: "On-Farm Mechanization," April 1992.
6.   Working Paper: "On-Farm Production Technology," April 1991.
7.    Working Paper: "Promotion of On-Farm Mechanization Technologies,"
April 1992.
Ap2raisal
1.    "Egypt: Agricultural and Rural Credit Markets, Modernization and Growth,
by Essam Montasser, December 1992.
2.    Working Paper: "Agro-Processing Component," September 1993.
3.    Working Paper: "Environmental Appraisal," July 1993.
4.    Working Papers "Research and Extension Component," September 1993.
5.    Working Paper: "Some Aspects of PBDAC operation," September 1993.
6.    Project Cost Tables.



ARAB REPUBLICO F EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJls',"I'
ORGANIZATION CHART
INTERFACE BETWEEN RURAL BANKING AND TECHNICAL SERVICES tJNI)ER T'IE PROJECT'I'
RURAI, BANKING                                                           TECHINDCAI, SERVICES
CENTRAL  - -          ~~~PBI)AC                                                                                               (cnC.
CENTRAI,                                             )A( k R'____
LEVEL                                                                                         AE.RI, SWMI,                            f x I   nsj
|V_ha _a                                                   FNRI,                   1
! Ag  tmterprises    ()n- fartmi                          Other Institlets   _
Ikpartment         Inv./Piomn.
Department
REG;IONAIl                                                                                         RRBS
LEVEL                                                                                              SMS InI
Agro-enterprises    On-farm                                              Agro-enterpris.e.                      D )irLctor ol
Unit               Inv./Prom.                                            Water maniagemilentt,                  I'xtensuion
L  ____t               unit                                                 Agr. ineciani,ation
x z_    __                                 F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co)no_lics aIlid itiarkeitig   ----  
DISTRICT                     I)istrict Branch                                                                          I               xteflsi i
LEVEL                                                                                                    1_     --      -              innatiomi,
[)emo. inu
r              -    *- -                -      -  - - -TSI,7ITISM
'I'T.SF:.TTlSMI
VILLAGE                         Ij                                          'UTS Village
LEVEL                        Village Bank                     - _ __vestorsl   - _              _-.xtension
jer Wsrker
NOTE:
ARC      =   Agriculture Research Center                             TTSI         = Technology Transter Specialist In on-tarint waler managerment
AERI   =   Agriculture Engineering Research Institute                TTSM         = Technology Transfer Specialist In mechanizatiotn
SWMI   =  Soil and Water Management Institute                        TTSF         = Technology Transfer Specialist in food and nutrition / rwal enterprnses
FNRI   =  Food and Nutrition Research Institute                      TTSMI        - Technology Transfer Specialist in market intformiation
RRES   =   Regional Research and Extension Service                   SMS          = Subject Matter Specialist
Solid line shows direct responsibility. Broken line shows joint responsibility.
An Environment Unit will be set up in the Vice ChairTitan's office.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AGRICULTURAL MODfE:RIZATION PROJECT
Project Implementation  Schedule  for  Selected   Components
95          |          99b                    1997                   1998                    1999                   2000                   200
Ou  tr 1|Z|3|4j1    2                | 4   | 1                                 3       3    4  j1 |2|3  |4  j1  |2 |3  |4j1 |2     3   4 
~~~~Qater    12 11    1                                                           _ __    _  _                                   _  _ 
CIVIL WORKS                                                                             t
Exterison tnfor. Qemon. Units          _        A       __..."NOW,......._
regionai Researth and Extension
Stat or__
VEHICLES AND EWIP_NT
vehicles                                             - --  -a --  -----_ z 
Of1'ice Fquipnt aaew s                                                                                                             t MM= ____
111tERKATMIAL EXPERIS
Fo'n, Recovrery Expert
eopmtnirnkin Exgert
Fnvvirornentat Expert          _           uw        NEW= M=w _w  _-.   -M--  -_
SITA)IES and TRAINING
Stud.i(basciir  Anrid Smpnct)       | _         I__ =
"Cat   trz. Rural Banking
(oral t,r.: Extenninn & R*_;rarch           | _
t,ro,q,  7r:, Rural ennking         t
tg .e7r1r: Ext. &w texearc'tl=   _==__c_  _I.__=.1 =-



IBRD 2528(
S. Ion- 4                                                                                                                  ARAB REPUBUC OF EGYPT
/                                   tor nole datel                                              -S
el,ft-Wtl. Ah .I.h                                                                                                                       AGRICULTURAL MODERNIZATION PROJECT
^1S IOtd                        I                *                                                         PRINCIPAL AND GOVERNORATE BANKS FOR
ISRAEL                                              DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL
M A R S A   M A T R U H                                2   S               t            I                                                                                                 CREDIT
2...                      (J~~  $  \  /  >                                                                                     \ J  0  R  D  A  N  PRINCIPAL AND GOVERNORATE BANKS FOR
I  .oo. ltttqWdwo   @ &1e   \   |DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT:
QATTAPA                                               1                                                                                                                          DC
DEPRESSION .'....                                                                      S I N A I        \                     /BDACs
5,OA_ O4SS 3    ,           _                                    l2  o;          SUEZ       SINAI PENINSULA                                                                                O
| &WE on        -                        ;                        F cYOU                                                                                                            Garot bonla lor deetlo
5 .    a&                                                      o                                                      and ogncubural credi
:I SUEF 5   =: ---                                                BS  A  U  D  I                                             1 Doniet
E L   MI N Y                                                      ARBA                                                       2Kcrat .Sheikh
a)~   ~             ~            ~ ~ ELM                                                                                 A R A B I A                                                 3 =to l
WESTERN                                                                                                                                                                   A saheir
El Mlyo n                                                                                                                     6SDorL.iy
7Mormfiya
9 Qobiyo
DESERT                                     DcESu                                                                                                                       10 Gizo
AssI T                    EL  BAHP                                                                                          12 Beni SIElF
E L   W  A D I   E L   G  E D  I D                         AbostinOO ,          E L  AHMAR                                                                                       13 AAiMu
S    AG                                                                                                          15 Sohog
80h;04,                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16 Oeno
15                                            R                                                                17 Aosn
2E  O  50    1?0   1X    200                                              1 f  - Ti6    '   rJSEA
L      lo                                                            0 E N A        rn  _-                                                                    rO  Cobivaed Anm
Muot                                              LofC
0                  K hE ,A =                                                                                                             >   Wadis
{ X  , .,:,, .                                                                     /            .. '0  PcolFnone
Ab0 a                     2          Emin                                            4(00                                                                                      *  Nalional Capitl
AlonSA_rIS   TflS       "PAFS EL fHEIKII                          I                           A2 sWAbrN                                                                                 *  Gmemoro Copidis
0  * ~~~~~~~~~. -.  0EOOI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,J/K  Ob.0Tosn and Villges
O,    OId nSrI :m                                                                                O K                                                                                 -        G         BirlS
A'                     Om                                                                                                                                             M  Occupied Titories
0            ~~~~6
|  \     c >        ,KoSr ~50S ZHin{/SHORIVA    noO  2                               _
Ij                          YoN8lFIYO                         S                                              017
tS / BEH~~~~~~~~~IIArEoU*FlvA  7  C
/d f  d .                   t,     OWr       :ft.  ord
\a_do ro Ims ..f~E.1  b.  rd S.k G-p, ony IZdCO   SfZ
S    U    D                A    N                                                                       n bndo
M   26                                                30N SO'                                                                                         '                                                                NiR1so1



See Inset
for moma detaiL
Memo Matruh                                RoIetta   o             <    Dametta |                               ;
Ale vandria-           i1Ia§3}   9<gS    rt Said                 fi Arsh
Damanhur                              U  { ^
M  A R S A    M  A T R U H                                                    ShTbrta K                             I,
--   -               g         ~~~~Shibin el   *omd     0       C    malib
,-''' _,-l,,--~';_s, -
-30-                                                                                                     Izc    Cairo           0* Suez
-- OATTARA           ,                                                                                          SaNAI
it DEPRESSION R ' ,.s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G I ZA                                                                      S  I N  A  I
C:DEPRESSION;,                                                               (
- .O . A                           -                                               fayoZ                             SINAI  PENINS
Slwah ~- - ---    -                                                              EL FAYdt
<~~~~~~~~-                                                  _eba O0~ 
E L   M I N Y A
im                                  WESTERN
_  _  A;                       El Minya s
N.w Vdq'
D E S E R T                                            Dairu
A S S U I T
Hlurghada0
Assiut.                    E L   B A HR
E L  W A D I  E L  G E D I D                                               AboutigO_,                E L A H M A R
SbeedoweM' i; S 0 H A G
Sohage
260                                 o0       50      t0o     ISr     20                                                               *Qena 1
Q E N A           (P.
Vilometers
Mut                                                            OLuxor
0                        Kharge 
K
Abu Otr                                                                                                     lb 
)  O R_e<ta                           Damiette *fPORTu 0
/            \       toAMtETtiF             ~~~~~~~~~SAID
Alexandria                             ' "                                        Sad                                   A S W   A  N
$tOtu  ........... ) ....FR. E                                Po..... 0Asd
tr.    0KaM/  ofitib
O8     K fr adkt O5Wr0Ka *Kom Ombo
~~    *       O~A9&HLIYA
'~~N&IbOI~Wa  ONARBIYA          SNARGKYas                                                     e Aswan
Zsgazgg        Isinailia  =
BEHEIRA                0e Kom ,
-:-..              UEE40~FIYA  q
,1 X           - .                   . ilENO-nYA S (          c h       ISMAILIA
GIZA               -        CAIRO           SUEZ            Abu Simbel 0
0      25      50                             l0za  *
-2: ?   _   Kilomoeters  ~           I        O  Trourab                                      ,u_
U    D    A   N
26-                                                                  i30o                                                                  34



