LOAN NUMBER 3719 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Modernization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Dated                              , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3719 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    OcqVWe       9           , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
PRINCIPAL  BANK  FOR DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL     CREDIT  (the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Arab Republic of Egypt (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;
(C)   the Guarantor has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project, and the Association
has agreed, under the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith, to provide such assistance in the amount of forty-eight
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
48,700,000); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:


﻿-2-
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "MALR" means the Guarantor's Ministry of Agriculture and
Land Reclamation;
(b)   "BDAC" means any of the Banks for Development and
Agricultural Credit, fully-owned subsidiaries of the Borrower
operating at the regional level;
(c)   "Village  Bank"  means   any  of  the  village   banks
established as fully-owned subsidiaries of the Borrower to operate
at the village level;
(d)   "ARC" means the Agricultural Research Center of MALR;
(e)   "RRES" means a Regional Research and Extension Station
of MALR;
(f)   "Participating Bank" means any banking institution of
the Guarantor with which the Borrower shall conclude a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement (as such term is defined in paragraph (g) below;
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means a subsidiary loan
agreement to be concluded between the Borrcwer and a Participating
Bank pursuant to the arrangements and on the terms referred to in
Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made by the Borrower or a
Participating Bank to a Beneficiary (as such term is defined in
paragraph (i) below);
(i)   "Beneficiary" means any individual or enterprise to
which the Borrower or a Participating Bank proposes to make or has
made a sub-loan, or proposes to provide or has provided the foreign
exchange required for the carrying out of an Investment (as such
term is defined in paragraph (j) below);


﻿-3-
(j)   "Investment" means a specific investment for purposes of
Part A or Part B of the Project eligible for financing from the
proceeds of the Loan and/or the Credit;
(k)   "PMD" means the Project Management Department of the
Borrower;
(1)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee established
by the Borrower to guide and monitor the implementation of the
Project;
(m)   "IAC" means the Implementation Advisory      Committee
established by the Borrower of representatives of groups with
interest in the Project to advise on measures for ensuring effective
Project Implementation;
(n)   "EIDU" means an Extension Information and Demonstration
Unit to be established under Part C (6) of the Project;
(o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(p)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the Development
Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the
Association;
(q)   "Credit" means the Credit in the amount of forty-eight
million    seven   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 48,700,000, provided by the Association to the Guarantor under
the Development Credit Agreement;
(r)   "Financing  Agreements"   means   the  two   financing
agreements to be entered into between the Guarantor and the Borrower
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of the Development
Credit Agreement, whereby the proceeds of the Credit will be made
available to the Borrower;
(s)   "Statutes" means Law No. 117 for the year 1976 of the
Guarantor pertaining to the regulation of the Borrower's activities,
as amended from time to time;
(t)   "Business Plan" means the Business Plan of the Borrower,
dated October 25, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to
time;


﻿-4-
(u)   "Project Coordinator" means the full-time Project
Coordinator designated by the Borrower to be responsible for day-to-
day management of the Project;
(v)   "Sale Option" means the sale by the Borrower or a
Participating Bank to a Beneficiary, for local currency and in
accordance with the legally applicable exchange rate, of such
portion of the proceeds of the Loan or Credit as shall be required
for financing import by such a Beneficiary of goods required for the
carrying out of an Investment; and
(w)   "Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty-four million dollars ($54,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by the Borrower or a Participating Bank to a Beneficiary to
meet the foreign exchange payments required for the carrying out of
the Investment in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
have been made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:


﻿- 6 -
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (112 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii)   'Quarter'  means   a  three-month  period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its comaitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 2roject and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices and in accordance with the Statutes and
Business Plan.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest


﻿-7-
of tihe Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower, comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the
Project.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
,f amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Financing
Agreements or any provisions thereof.
(c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part C of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to the Borrower under the Financing Agreements shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   starting  with   the   Borrower's  fiscal   year
beginning on July 1, 1994, have its records,
accounts  and   financial   statements  (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements), and the records and accounts
for the Special Account and the consolidated
accounts for the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 8 -
(iii)   furnish  to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records and   accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank by
October 31 in each year, starting in the Year 1994, an analysis of
the Borrower's loan recovery and aging of arrears; and (b) take
measures adequate to ensure, by June 30, 1997, the reduction of the
Borrower's operating expenses and the maintenance of the level of
such expenses at the equivalent of not more than 60% of the
Borrower's net interest income.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure compliance of its
Policies and Procedures for loan classification and for provisioning
with the prudential regulations of the Guarantor's Central Bank.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall continue to prepare and
furnish to the Bank, by March 31 of each year, an annual business
plan, including the Borrower's financial targets for the following
fiscal year and a projection of the Borrower's financial performance
for the following five fiscal years.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.01 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Statutes or the Business Plan shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or the financial conditions of the
Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions
(a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, save for conditions requiring the
effectiveness of this Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b)   the Financing Agreements have been concluded between the
Guarantor and the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Financing Agreements have
been duly concluded between the Guarantor and the Borrower and are
legally binding upon the Guarantor and the Borrower in accordance
with their terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Board of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
110 Kasr El-Eini Street
Cairo
Egypt
Cable address:                Telex:
TASLEEF BANK              3540940
Cairo


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Cairo, Arab Repulic of Egypt, as
of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Authorized Representative
PRINCIPAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amount of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             Z of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
CateRory          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Machinery,              54,000,000        100% of foreign
equipment and                             expenditures,
other goods                               100% of local
under Parts A                             expenditures
and B of the                              (ex-factory
Project                                   cost) and 60%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures
for goods, works and services under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase
agricultural productivity through the promotion of appropriate
technological packages at the farm level, (b) to increase rural
income through the creation of off-farm job opportunities in farm-
related enterprises; and (c) at the institutional level, to
strengthen the capacity of the Borrower as a rural financial
institution, encourage wider participation by banking institutions
in the financing of rural investments and improve coordination among
agencies responsible for the provision of agricultural services in
the areas of credit, marketing and technology transfer.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     On-farm Technological Improvement
Provision by the Borrower and the Participating Banks to
Beneficiaries of the foreign exchange (under Sale Option and/or
under Sub-loans) required for financing the procurement of
agricultural inputs, machinery, equipment, components and spare
parts.
Part B:     Rural Based Investment
Provision by the Borrower and the Participating Banks to
Beneficiaries of the foreign exchange (under Sale Option and/or
under a Sub-loan) required for the carrying out of (a) Investments
in agriculture-based activities, such as extraction, agro-
processing, post-harvest activities, fish farming and dairying, and
(b) Investments in agriculture-related services such as handling,
storage, transport, other marketing activities, information and
technology dissemination and veterinary.
Part C:     Institutional Development
1.    Provision to the Borrower of expert services to upgrade itz
planning, auditing and lending capacities, including its capacity to
assess the environmental impact of investments submitted for its
financing.


﻿- 14 -
2.    Preparation and implementation by the Borrower of a training
program for its staff (including staff of BDACs and village banks)
and the staff of the Participating Banks in key areas of their
operations.
3.    Carrying out of studies of rural financial markets and rural
savings.
4.    Formulation and implementation by the Borrower of a staff
rationalization plan to ensure, through streamlining, retraining and
redeployment, compatibility of the staffing of the Borrower with its
operational needs.
5.    Establishment or upgrading of about 20 village banks.
6.    Implementation of a Pilot Program to facilitate the use of
proven agricultural technology, including (a) upgrading of the
facilities and staffing of three RES so as to ensure their
operation as effective links between farmers and agents for
agricultural services in the areas of research, extension, credit
and input supply, and (b) strengthening the link between the above
RRES and extension services through the formation of 33 Extension
Information and Demonstration Units (EIDUs), to be staffed by
appropriate specialists in technology transfer, and (c) provision of
training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1999                               1,025,000
June 15, 2000                                   1,060,000
December 15, 2000                               1,100,000
June 15, 2001                                   1,140,000
December 15, 2001                               1,180,000
June 15, 2002                                   1,225,000
December 15, 2002                               1,265,000
June 15, 2003                                   1,315,000
December 15, 2003                               1,360,000
June 15, 2004                                   1,410,000
December 15, 2004                               1,460,000
June 15, 2005                                   1,515,000
December 15, 2005                               1,570,000
June 15, 2006                                   1,625,000
December 15, 2006                               1,685,000
June 15, 2007                                   1,750,000
December 15, 2007                               1,810,000
June 15, 2008                                   1,875,000
December 15, 2008                               1,945,000
June 15, 2009                                   2,015,000
December 15, 2009                               2,090,000
June 15, 2010                                   2,165,000
December 15, 2010                               2,245,000
June 15, 2011                                   2,325,000
December 15, 2011                               2,410,000
June 15, 2012                                   2,500,000
December 15, 2012                               2,590,000
June 15, 2013                                   2,685,000
December 15, 2013                               2,780,000
June 15, 2014                                   2,880,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                       Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) vpplicable to
the Loan on the day of
prepayment    multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity,
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Under Part C of the Project
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    (a) Vehicles, and office and laboratory equipment and (b) all
other items of goods estimated to cost per contract the equivalent
of more than $200,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines.
2.    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items of works shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Item-- -t groups of items of goods (other than vehicles and
office and laboratory equipment) estimated to cost the equivalent of
not more than $200,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of more than $200,000, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by


﻿- 19 -
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree upon from time
to time, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the following arrangements:
Part A:     Project Management
1.    The Chairman of the Borrower, acting as Project Director,
shall assume the overall responsibility for Project implementation.
He shall maintain the existence of PSC under his chairmanship and
convene it when needed to utilize its expertise in guiding Project
implementation.
2.    The Project Coordinator shall (a) assist the Project Director
in all matters related to Project administration; (b) head the PMD;
and (c) act as the secretary of PSC. In addition to the Project
Coordinator, the Project Director shall be assisted by two Project
deputies, one to be responsible for banking-related matters under
Parts A and B of the Project, and the other to be responsible for
technology transfer and institutional coordination under Part C of
the Project.
3.    In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall act
in close coordination and cooperation with the extension service of
MALR and ARC.
Part B:     Participating Banks
1.    The Borrower shall continue to implement an information
campaign to contact major Egyptian commercial banks and to inform
them of the objectives and components of the Project and to
adequately explain to them the conditions for their becoming
Participating Banks for the purpose of extending financing for
Investments under Parts A and B of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall determine the eligibility of a commercial
bank to become a Participating Bank under the Project in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, including
the compliance of such bank with the prudential regulations of the
Central Bank of Egypt and its agreement to have its accounts audited
by private external auditors, in accordance with internationally


﻿- 21 -
accepted auditing practices and to submit a copy of the audit report
to the Bank.
3.    Upon determination of the eligibility of a commercial bank to
become a Participating Bank under the Project, the Borrower shall
conclude with such bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement which shall include, in addition
to provision reflecting the requirement stated in paragraph 2 above:
(a)   the amount onlent by the Borrower to the Participating
Bank out of the Loan and Credit proceeds;
(b)   an amortization schedule for repayment of the principal
amount of the Subsidiary Loan over a period not exceeding 15 years;
(c)   the obligation of the Participating Bank (i) to pay on
the amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time a
commitment charge at a rate equal to that applicable to the Loan,
and (ii) to pay on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time interest at a rate which shall equal
the interest rate and other charges applicable to the outstanding
amount of the Loan, plus an administration fee at a rate of not more
than one-half of one percentage point;
(d)   the obligation of the Participating Bank in case it
utilizes the Sale Option for financing Investments (i) to prepay to
the Borrower, without penalty, an amount of the subsidiary loan
corresponding to the amount used in the Sale Option, or (ii) to use
the proceeds of the Sale Option for financing further Investments;
(e)   appropriate  remedies  to  ensure  the  use  by   the
Participating Bank of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan in the
purposes for which it was provided and to protect the interest of
the Borrower;
(f)   the obligation of the Participating Bank to finance
Investment and to provide Sub-loans in accordance with the
conditions set forth in Part C of this Schedule;
(g)   the application by   the Participating Bank    of  an
appropriate methodology and procedures in the appraisal of
Investments proposed for its financing; and
(h)   (i) the maintenance by the Participating Bank      of
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿- 22 -
sound accounting practices its operations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; (ii) the audit of said records and accounts for each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, and
(iii) the furnishing to the Borrower and the Bank of the report of
such audit by said auditors.
Part C:     Financing of Investments
1.    The Borrower or the Participating Bank, as the case may be,
shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank prior to approving a
financing for an Investment, whether under the Sale Option or under
a Sub-loan, in an amount exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent. For this
purpose, the Borrower or the Participating Bank, as the case may be,
shall furnish to the Bank an application containing: (a) a
description and an appraisal of the Investment, including, whenaver
relevant, an assessment of the environmental impact thereof; (b) the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan, and (c) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, no financing for a
single Investment or to a single Beneficiary from the Proceeds of
the Loan and the Credit shall be provided in an amount exceeding
$3,000,000 equivalent.
3.    Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower or the
Participating Bank, as the case may be, shall obtain, by written
contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower or the
Participating Bank, includi,.-g, with respect to Investments financed
under Sub-loans, the right to:
(a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Investment with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
(b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be purchased at a reason-
able price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such
as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them, and (ii) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment;


﻿- 23 -
(c)   inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment, the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents;
(d)   require that: (i) the Beneficiary take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or Credit
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to
replace or repair such goods;
(e)   obtain all such information as the Bank, or the Borrower
or the Participating Bank, shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operatioz4 and financial
condition of the Investment and to the benefits to be derived
therefrom; and
(f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower or
the Participating Bank, as the case may be.
4.    Any contract to be concluded by Beneficiaries for the purchase
of agricultural inputs in an amount exceeding the equivalent of more
than $3,000,000 shall be awarded under procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines.
5.    Sub-loans shall be charged interest and other charges at such
rates as shall ensure a reasonable return on the Borrower's or the
Participating Bank's lending operations.
6.    The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, with the assistance of the
environmental expert assigned to its environmental function and on
the basis of principles satisfactory to the Bank, environmental
screening guidelines for use by its staff, the staff of BDACs and of
the Participating Banks in assessing the environmental impact of
agricultural investments; (b) carry out during the period of Project
implementation, a program of staff training on environmental
screening, analysis and monitoring; and (c) ensure, and cause the
Participating Banks to ensure, that Investments in agro-processing
and land reclamation shall be subject to environmental analysis to
be included in their appraisal, that such analysis shall include


﻿- 24-
mitigation measures as necessary and that no financing shall be
provided for Investments whose environmental impact shall be
considered as unacceptable under the environmental screening
guidelines referred to in sub-paragraph 5 (a) above.
7.    The Borrower shall employ (a) by October 31, 1994, for a
period of two years, a development banking expert and a loan
administration and recovery specialist with qualifications and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) such other experts on
ad hoc basis as may be required for the purposes of Investments.
Part D:     Institutional Development under Part C of the Project
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, by September 30, 1994, a plan for the carrying out of
training under Part C (2) of the Project; and (b) carry out such
training in accordance with the arrangements and time-schedule
indicated in such plan, taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon.
2.    The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Bank, by September 30,
1994,   its  proposed   measures   for   implementing  the   staff
rationalization plan, referred to in Part C (4), including the
budgetary requirements thereof; and (b) implement such plan through
annual programs, each to be furnished to the Bank, for its comments,
by April 30 of each subsequent year.
3.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by September 30, 1994,
the justifications for the establishment of new village banks under
Part C (5) of the Project, including the arrangements for site
acquisition and the estimated costs of and expected benefits from
such village banks.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure the assignment by October 31, 1994
(a) to each RRES referred to in Part C (6) of the Project of four
specialists in the areas of farm mechanization, on-farm water use,
production economics and marketing, and agro-processing, and (b) to
each of about 13 selected EIDUs of an experienced extensionist and
four specialists in technology transfer.
5.    The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the studies of rural
financial markets and savings, referred to in Part C (3) of the
Project, under terms of reference and time-schedule satisfactory to
the Bank; (b) ensure, by December 31, 1994, the completion of said
studies and the furnishing to the Bank of their findings and


﻿- 25 -
recommendations; (c) develop on the basis thereof, and of the Bank's
comments thereon, and furnish to the Bank, by March 31, 1995, a plan
and targets for rural deposit mobilization for the Borrower's fiscal
year 1995/96; and (d) establish such targets for each succeeding
fiscal year and furnish the same to the Bank by March 31 of each
year.
Part E:     Review
The Borrower and the Bank shall carry out a mid-term review of
Project progress in December 1997.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedttle 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals3 of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Author-tzed Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
and other evidence required pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the


﻿- 27 -
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid out
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions    of paragraph   3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the


﻿- 28 -
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible axpenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOWSE(:RETARY


