Report No. PID6109
Project Name                     Ukraine - Second Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Enterprise Sector
Project ID                       UAPE49502
Borrower                         Government of Ukraine
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy of Ukraine
Date This PID Prepared           February 4, 1998
Appraisal Date                   November, 1997
Board Date                       March 31, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      In late 1994, Ukraine embarked on an ambitious and comprehensive economic
reform program. This followed the election of President Kuchma in July, 1994
and his call for a radical break from the past in economic policies. The
reform program has been supported by several quick disbursing loans from the
IMF and World Bank, including a first Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
(EDAL) which was approved in mid-1996. The program includes stabilization and
structural measures aimed at maintaining a low rate of inflation and promoting
sustainable economic recovery. Early measures included the lifting of most
price controls, unification of the exchange rate, sharp reductions in
subsidies on bread and public utilities and the adjustment of energy prices to
full cost recovery levels and the initiation of a privatization program.
Later measures now being supported by the Bank and IMF include further
reduction of the fiscal deficit, limited growth in the money supply, continued
positive real interest rates, maintaining a liberal trade regime, financial
sector reforms, tax reform, reduction of the regulatory burden on enterprises,
streamlining of the public administration to make it more market friendly and
the completion of mass privatization and the individual privatization of large
strategic enterprises.
2.      The mass privatization program which has been at the core of the economic
reforms will include the privatization of 9,500 medium and large enterprises
by late 1998 by a combination of methods including public auction for
registered and tradable paper certificates which have already been widely used
by the population. Secondary markets are already encouraging the transfer of
share ownership after mass privatization and the mechanisms and regulations
that have already been created to ensure adequate supervision of the capital
markets will be further consolidated.
Objectives
3.      The main objectives of the Sector Adjustment Loan are to support the
privatization, capital markets development , bankruptcy and accounting reform
and deregulation programs. Other objectives are to: (i) provide foreign
exchange for the purchase of critical imports and (ii) support the development



of the foreign exchange markets.
Description
4.      The loan will provide quick disbursing funds in three equal tranches of
$100 million each in return for the implementation of policy and institutional
reforms. The conditions include:
- completion of a mass privatization program of 9,500 medium/large
enterprises including numerical targets for privatization of grain marketing
and distribution enterprises and large enterprises
- creation of transparent procedures for case-by-case privatization for large
strategic enterprises followed by implementation of a number of transactions
- consolidation of the regulatory and institutional framework for capital
markets, including strengthening the role of the Securities and Stock Markets
Commission and self-regulatory organizations for market participants,
improvement of the transparency of the markets, improvements to taxation of
the markets and support for the development of clearing and settlement
infrastructure
- implementation of international accounting and audit standards for the
enterprise sector and development of professional accounting capacity
- implementation of a workable bankruptcy process to facilitate enterprise
restructuring and exit and more productive use of underutilized assets
--simplification of the business licensing and registration processes and
creation of mechanisms to consult with the private sector and to review
continuously any new legislation and ensure that it does not impose an undue
regulatory burden on enterprises
5.      All components are mutually supportive in their encouragement for the
enterprise privatization and post-privatization restructuring processes.
Financing
6.      The cost of the adjustment operation is $300 million.    Grant funds
already identified in principle from other donors will finance TA associated
with the program.
Implementation
7.      Implementation of the policy reforms has already begun since loan
preparation began in early 1997. The Ministry of Economy will be the
coordinating agency with general supervisory responsibility but other agencies
will also be involved in implementation including the State Property Fund,
Securities and Stock Markets Commission (SSMC), Ministry of Finance, National
Bank of Ukraine, Bankruptcy Agency, and the Committee for Entrepreneurship.
Sustainability
8.      The main objectives of the loan are to bring to completion the primary
stages of transformation in the ownership structure and management of
- 2 -



Ukrainian enterprises, to accelerate the development of the private sector
through deregulation measures, to capital markets infrastructure that will
serve Ukraine indefinitely in the future, to promote the use of International
Accounting Standards which will improve enterprise accountability and
financial discipline and to create a modern bankruptcy process which will
promote further restructuring of the enterprise sector. By definition these
objectives are to bring about sustainable change.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
9.      The experience of previous adjustment loans supporting enterprise reform,
including the Rehabilitation Loan and the first EDAL, has shown that well
designed policy conditionality can bring about dramatic reforms that were
previously unobtainable, particularly when acting closely alongside grant
financed technical assistance from other donors. Very close cooperation has
been and will continue to be maintained with the other donors during loan
execution. The major donors have expressed their strong support for the
project concept. Experience has also shown that Ukraine is unlikely to wish to
borrow large amounts for TA and is likely to be able to mobilize substantial
grant funds for this purpose. For these reasons no Bank-financed TA is
proposed
Poverty Category
10.     N/A
Environmental Aspects
Environmental Data
Specify environmental category; indicate whether an indigenous peoples plan or
resettlement plan will possibly be developed.
11.     The loan will have no direct environmental impact and is therefore a
category C operation.
Program Objective Categories
12.     The proposed project strongly supports the Bank's program objective of
development of a policy framework conducive to fiscal and macroeconomic
stability, and to private sector development
Contact Point:                  Bernard Drum
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)473-6032
Fax No. (202) 522-0005
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998.
- 3 -



