Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19965
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION
TO THE
UKRAINE
FOR A SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT ID: P049502
L/C NUMBER: 43900
January 14, 2000
Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = Hyrvnia (UAH)
I UAH= US$ 0.1928
US$ I = 5.1860 UAH
FISCAL YEAR
July 1, 1999-  June 30, 2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU            European Union
IMF           International Monetary Fund
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOU           Government of Ukraine
MOE           Ministry of Economy
NASB          National Accounting Standards Board
NBA           National Bankruptcy Agency
SRO           Self Regulatory Organization
SCED          State Commission on Entrepreneurship Development
SPF           State Property Fund of Ukraine
SSMC          State Securities and Stock Market Commission
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UAH           Ukrainian Hyrvnia
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Acting Country Director:   Lily Chu
Sector Manager:    Gerhard Pohl
Task Team Leader:    Vladimir Kreacic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UKRAINE
SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No
i . Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    5
6. Sustainability                                                                        6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       7
9. Partner Comments                                                                       8
10. Additional Information                                                               8
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     9
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    10
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    11
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    12
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    14
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       15
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   16
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution                                                          17
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P049502                                        Project Name: EDAL II
Team Leader: Vladimir G. Kreacic                          |TL Unit. ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: January 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: EDAL II                                           LIC Number: 43900
Country/Department: UKRAINE                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: II - Industrial Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/05/97                                 Effective: 09/18/98
Appraisal:  10/17/97                                 MATR:
Approval:  09/15/98                                 Closing: 06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE
Other Partners: Ministry of Economy, State Securities and Stock Market Commission, National
Bankruptcy Agency, State Commission on Entrepreneurship Development, State
Property Fund, National Accounting Standards Board
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Lily Chu                                   Paul Siegelbaum
Sector Manager:       Gerhard Pohl                              Gerhard Pohl
Team Leader at ICR:   Vladimir Kreacic                          Bernard Drum
ICR Primaty Author.   Ragini Dalal
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unfikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=-Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development N
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the Second Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan (EDAL II) included
support to the Government of Ukraine's (GOU) privatization, capital markets development, accounting
reform, bankruptcy reform, and deregulation programs through balance of payments assistance. Other
objectives were to provide foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports and to support the
development of the foreign exchange markets.
EDAL II is the second of two World Bank loans to Ukraine focusing primarily on the enterprise sector.
The First Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan (EDAL 1) was prepared in 1994-5 and approved by
the Board in June 1996. EDAL I was prepared at a time when Ukraine, a newly independent country, was
still in the process of transforming its economy from a centrally planned system to a market-oriented one.
In late 1994, a clear break was made from past policies as Ukraine began to lay the foundations for
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms. An IMF-supported stabilization program which
entailed tight fiscal and monetary policies was agreed. At that time, the Bank supported a wide range of
programs aimed at reducing Government intervention in the economy, developing competitive markets, and
introducing elements of a social safety net through a series of adjustment loans in the social, enterprise,
agricultural, and energy sectors. EDAL I was the first of such Bank interventions in the enterprise sector
and focused on privatization, trade and price liberalization, and capital markets development. The relative
success of the EDAL I and the increasingly urgent need of the Government for balance of payments
support led to the EDAL II which was approved by the Board in September 1998.
Much was accomplished by the Government in 1995-7. Inflation was sharply reduced (to 40 percent
annually in 1996 and 16 percent in 1997); the exchange rate was unified and a substantial degree of current
account convertibility was established; domestic prices were largely decontrolled; tax reform was initiated;
the state order system was abolished; a mass privatization program was in the process of being
implemented successfully (largely due to the EDAL I program); and restructuring of the agricultural,
electricity, and coal sectors had begun. However, a number of factors point to the fragility of the early
successes. Tight monetary policy was not accompanied by sufficient structural measures to reduce
expenditures. In effect, the fiscal situation appeared better than it was with the cash deficit being contained
by running up arrears and postponing expenditures. Economic activity also remained weak. Officially
recorded GDP continued to fall in 1998; albeit at a slower rate of 1.7 percent than in the previous years.
Much of the new private sector activity stimulated by the privatization program and related reforms was
channeled into the unofficial economy. This had implications for the tax and foreign exchange base, thus
making macroeconomic stability that much harder to sustain. There were also setbacks in several areas of
the reform program, particularly tax reform, energy sector reform, and agricultural sector reform. The
Russian financial crisis of 1998 further negatively affected the Ukrainian economy: this is discussed in
greater detail in Section 5.
At this time, the Bank pursued a program that focused primarily on adjustment lending in all of the sectors
mentioned above. The goal of the Bank's program had been to work with the GOU to put in place the
necessary regulations and institutions in the key sectors while simultaneously providing needed balance of
payments support. Though the EDAL II can generally be considered an exception, the GOU either failed to
implement or reversed many of the serious reforms in the adjustment packages. This has led the Bank to
adopt a more stringent stance towards Ukraine and severely curtail the lending program. Prior to resuming
a full program of lending, the GOU will have to implement a set of reforms that will lead to significant,
measurable outcomes such as successful and transparent cash privatization, administrative reform, and
deregulation. The triggers for the resumption of a medium case lending scenario, as specified by the Bank
- 2 -



in the May 1999 CAS Progress Report, are: (a) generation of US$ I billion in cash proceeds from
privatization; (b) reform of the Aparat of the Cabinet of Ministers; and (c) significant reduction in the
number of business inspections as confirmed by independent surveys.
A limited work program now continues in key areas with the Bank's strategy shifting towards investment
lending. In the private sector development area, the Bank is developing an investment loan that would
pr9vide technical assistance for the restructuring and financing of private and privatized enterprises.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project Objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The reform program supported by the loan included the:
(a) completion of a mass privatization program of 9500 medium and large enterprises as well as the
continuation of individual privatization of large attractive enterprises;
(b) consolidation of the legislative framework and institutions to regulate the capital markets including the
State Securities and Stock Market Commission, self-regulatory organizations for market intermediaries,
and an effective trading, depository, and clearing and settlement infrastructure;
(c) implementation of intemational accounting and auditing standards throughout the enterprise sector;
(d) implementation of an effective modem bankruptcy process in Ukraine;
(e) simplification and acceleration of the processes required for private business licensing, registration and
inspections, and the institutionalization of the deregulation processes including public/private consultative
mechanisms.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project Components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not selected for a quality of entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
When the EDAL II was designed, the primary objective had been to complete the mass privatization
program. This objective was clearly reached and the ambitious privatization targets of the loan were fully
met by the Government. Similarly, great strides were taken in the development of capital markets and the
areas of accounting reform, bankruptcy reform, and deregulation as described in Section 4.2 below. The
Loan disbursed with full compliance of all conditionality in all three tranches within nine months of Board
approval. The objectives of the EDAL II program can, therefore, be considered to have been broadly
accomplished.
The mass privatization program was the first step in creating a market economy following decades of
Communism in Ukraine. Creating an enabling environment for business and private sector development
were the larger objectives of the loan which proved more difficult to accomplish. While the GOU fulfilled
all the conditions, the expected transformation of the private sector has been slower to occur. Both EDALs
played a critical role in helping Ukraine begin to develop as a market economy by creating primary
ownership changes and beginning to put in place the enabling legal and institutional environment for the
next stage of development. Both programs organized and focused Govemment and donor commitment in
this process. Political considerations and vested interests, however, prohibited moving the reform program
beyond this point. Thus, while the objectives of the EDAL II were achieved, its sustainability can be
questioned. The Bank's Private Sector Development team is addressing this issue by focusing current
- 3 -



programs on enterprise level assistance in the regions of Ukraine in order to train Ukrainian enterprise
managers and local consultants; create a demonstration effect from successfully restructured enterprises;
and build a constituency for reform from the bottom up.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Privatization: At least 70% of the equity of over 9500 medium/large enterprises and 40% of the equity
of 100 large enterprises have been transferred to private ownership. Progress was also made in the
privatization of grain elevators and unfinished construction sites. Case by case privatization of thirteen
large, attractive enterprises was initiated. However, the tender procedure selected for the case by case
transactions was generally unfriendly to investors, including a number of unpopular conditions such as
investment commitments, discharge of all enterprise liabilities, and retention of all staff for 4-5 years. To
date only three enterprises have been sold to domestic investors. One enterprise for which there was
considerable interest from reputable western investors was removed from the list. Even if this enterprise is
"reinstated" and privatized as agreed, the overall demonstration effect -- as well as revenues to the budget --
will be very low.
(b) Capital Markets: Enterprise shares were transferred to independent registrars, capital market activity
at commercial banks has been separated from the regular operations of the banks, all brokers and registrars
have become members of SROs, a new depository and clearance system for corporate securities was
initialized, and disclosure of information on publicly traded companies became more transparent.
(c) Accounting Reform: The Law on Accounting Reform was passed. This Law envisages a new national
accounting system which will be in compliance with International Accounting Standards. Educational
programs in accounting, consistent with IAS and ISA, were initiated at two graduate level institutions in
Ukraine.
(d) Bankruptcy Reform: A new law on Bankruptcy, which provides for adequate and transparent
procedures for insolvent enterprises, was passed. An educational program and training for trustees and
liquidators was initiated.
(e) Deregulation: Registration procedures for businesses were significantly simplified. Initially, the
number of business activities subject to licensing was significantly reduced as Board conditionality required
that no more than 44 activities require licensing. Subsequently, this number increased because there were
many activities that required govemmental permissions that were essentially like licenses and did not fall
under the agreed list of 44 activities. Currently, the Government has proposed a list of 78 activities
requiring licenses or other permits. This is a unified list that includes all permits and licenses. While the
list of 78 activities is higher than the agreed 44 activities, the Bank and other donors support the creation
and adoption of this list as it unites in one place all the activities requiring licensing/permits and streamlines
the licensing procedures for businesses. While the GOU has formally complied with this condition, the
number of "license-like" permits, warrants, and certificates required by enterprises continues to increase
thereby diluting the positive effects of deregulation introduced through the EDAL II.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The EDAL 1I was a balance of payments support operation with a reform agenda linked to the
conditionalities of the loan. As such, it did not have institutional development objectives though it did
enhance the implementation capacity of the agencies involved in fulfilling the conditions of the loan, such as
the Ministry of Economy, the State Property Fund, the State Securities and Stock Market Commission, the
-4 -



National Accounting Standards Board, the Bankruptcy Agency, and the State Committee on
Entrepreneurship Development.
It was also an example of good partnership between the GOU and all the donors involved. The Bank team
worked closely with donor agencies to leverage the EDAL II policy conditionality with donor-financed
technical assistance programs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Ukraine's experience during 1998 revealed the fundamental weakness of its economy. After the August
financial crisis in Russia, Ukraine found it difficult to roll over its billions of hryvnias of T-bill debt, much
of which had been sold to foreign investors. Those investors, having witnessed the problems in Asia and
Russia, became wary of all emerging markets-particularly risky ones like Ukraine, where debt service
obligations accounted for a major share of government expenditures. Once the T-bill debt could no longer
be rolled over, Ukraine was forced to restructure virtually all the T-bill debt falling due in 1998, affecting
nearly UAH 2 billion of T-bills and over $100 million of other debt. As a result of the Russian crisis,
Ukraine also suffered a severe decline in output with GDP falling in nearly all sectors of the economy.
However, by late spring 1999, the rate of decline in GDP began to slow down, industrial output began to
register positive growth, and the Government was able to stabilize the currency.
The fiscal situation, however, remained precarious making the GOU reluctant to undertake any reforms
requiring budget outlays, particularly as the IMF austerity program severely squeezed the budget.
Furthermore, parliamentary and presidential elections created the necessity to cater to nationalist/populist
elements that opposed the reforms.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The preparation of the EDAL II involved intensive coordination with key stakeholders (such as the SPF) as
well as coordination with donor agencies and the private sector. In a time of political change and economic
crisis, however, there were frequent changes in leadership at the higher levels of Government. Particularly,
multiple changes in the top leadership of the SPF (there were at least three Chairmen during the nine month
life of the EDAL II) impacted negatively on the EDAL 11.
Though the GOU fulfilled the mass privatization targets of the loan, there was little political will to
privatize the large, attractive enterprises. Potentially valuable enterprises were either taken off the list of
thirteen demonstration cases or burdened by such pre-conditions as to make them unattractive for potential
investors. For example, the SPF would require potential investors to fund 100% of the liabilities ofthe
enterprise despite the fact that they were not buying the entire enterprise, or the SPF would stipulate that
none of the workers could be laid off for 4-5 years. Thus, while legally in compliance with the EDAL II
conditionality on this issue, the spirit of the reforms intended was only achieved to a limited extent.
There was also a disagreement between the Bank/USAID and the Government with regard to the National
Depository. Though the GOU wanted to maintain Government ownership, the Bank and USAID felt
strongly that the central depository should be an independent, private organization. Currently, a
compromise situation exists in which there is a clearing Depository with commercial functions that is
private (and is supported by a USAID project), and a National Depository which has only regulatory
functions that is state owned. However, this situation can change at any time if the State Securities and
Stock Market Commission were to permit the state owned National Depository to have commercial
functions. It is critical that this does not occur.
-5-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As an adjustment loan, there was no implementing agency such as a Project Implementation Unit, however,
the Ministry of Economy oversaw the fullfillment of the conditions by the various agencies involved.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Three tranches of US $100 million each were disbursed. Detailed cost figures can be found in Annex Four.
6. Sustainability
61 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The specific conditions in Ukraine make sustainability hard to predict. If considered in isolation, the
outcomes of the loan were delivered in a satisfactory and timely fashion. However, questions about the
larger enabling environment for private sector development as well as lack of reforms in other sectors of the
economy (i.e. administrative reform, pension reform, energy sector reform) will influence the long term
sustainability of the loan.
Nevertheless, sustainability has been rated as "Likely". The rationale for this rating is based on the fact
that the project established a basis for the future development of the private sector by creating a large
number of privatized enterprises, regulating the capital markets, advancing the development of bankruptcy
mechanisms, establishing the basis for international accounting standards to enterprises, and making the
entry of new businesses easier through the adoption of a simplified registration process. Follow on
operations by the Bank and other donors have already shown that these mechanisms have assisted in the
development of their projects. The European Union is now involved in assisting the GOU in selling four
large attractive enterprises; the Bankruptcy Law has been passed, and the Bank's Private Sector
Development (PSD) project has begun intensive work with privatized enterprises on the oblast/region level
to train enterprise managers as well as restructure enterprises. The demonstration effect of the thirteen
case-by-case privatizations supported by the EDAL II is yet to be proven. Recent reversals by the GOU on
this condition and subsequent interventions by Bank staff have served to mobilize the Fund and other
donors and elevated the discussion of the negative consequences of the GOUs current privatization policy
to the highest levels of the Government.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned above, this project has paved the way for the development of the Bank's PSD Loan which
seeks to restructure enterprises and train Ukrainian managers and consultants throughout Ukraine as well
as projects by other donors.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. The Bank's preparation of the project
entailed intensive examination of the lessons learned from EDAL I as well as close coordination with
multiple Government counterparts and donor agencies active in the enterprise sector in Ukraine. The loan
was processed on a timely schedule in order to address the GOUs balance of payments needs as well as to
advance the agenda for reform in the enterprise sector in Ukraine. The Loan was fully disbursed nine
months after effectiveness. Bank missions visited Kyiv nearly every six weeks during the preparatory
phases of the Loan.
-6 -



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is assessed as highly satisfactory. Supervision of the loan was
intensive and significantly improved by the fact that the Program Team Leader (PTL) was based at the
Resident Mission in Kyiv from one month after the effectiveness of the loan through till the disbursement of
the final tranche. The presence of the PTL in Kyiv allowed daily contact with the counterpart agencies as
well as immediate resolution of questions and problems.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the time
of preparation between the Government and the Bank. Representatives from all the counterpart agencies
were involved in the preparation of the loan.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory due to the reasons outlined in
Sections 4 and 6. All the conditions of the loan were fulfilled. The most contentious issue, however, was
the mechanism for the sale of thirteen large, attractive enterprises on a case-by-case basis. The Bank felt
strongly that this should be done through transparent, open tenders where the winner is the one with the
highest proposed price and that this process is outsourced to professional, reputable investment bankers.
The Government chose instead to use non-price criteria and keep this process in-house as much as possible.
The GOU agreed to use EU (TACIS) funded advisors for only four of the thirteen enterprises. Therefore,
the condition regarding the sale of the three and then ten large enterprises can be said to have been fulfilled
formally, and only following lengthy discussions with the Bank team.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not Applicable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government--until the final disbursement-is assessed as satisfactory.
Clearly, this was driven by the urgent need for balance of payments support due to the economic crises
discussed above. Once the leverage of the last disbursement was gone, however, signs of wavering
appeared and it was necessary to continue working with the GOU to prevent backtracking. In the
immediate future, further attempts to backtrack cannot be excluded and additional efforts may be required
to sustain the impact of EDAL II. In the absence of a continuing lending program, however, this will be
difficult to accomplish.
8. Lessons Learned
Build ownership from the side of the counterpart
Given the varied Govemmental agencies that were involved in the EDAL II, it would have been useful to
have one agency, and a structure therein, as the main counterpart who felt ownership of the project and was
answerable for results. The project would have been less affected by the changes in leadership at the higher
levels of Govemment if a stronger team had existed at the working level. The example of the EDAL I
suggests the SPF should have been that counterpart; however, the constant change in leadership of the
senior management of the SPF made this impossible.
-7 -



Create support from a variety of political spheres
Given the difficult political climate in Ukraine and the often contentious relationship between the
Government and Parliament, it would have been useful to involve participants from a variety of political
spheres. If a broad base of political leaders had been involved, the EDAL II would have enjoyed wider
support and the Bank would have taken into account the views of more stakeholders.
Adjustment versus Investment
In general, the usefulness of adjustment operations in a complex environment such as Ukraine, where
executive power is divided between line ministries, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Presidential
Administration and where the majority of Parliamentary Deputies are opposed to economic reform, was
brought into question. Wherever possible, the conditionalities were fulfilled by the issuance of decrees,
with poor subsequent implementation.
The current thinking of the team working on private sector development issues for Ukraine is that, at this
stage, much more can be accomplished in the form of smaller investment projects with intensive technical
assistance components. The mass privatization program has now been completed; basic laws and
institutions have been put in place; and the Government now has a track record of dialogue with the Bank.
The preparatory work being done on the PSD Loan has shown that strides can be made in institution
building and training of locals through the form of intensive on-the-ground technical assistance. This is
clearly a more labor intensive approach and requires much more input from the Bank team but the results
seem to suggest that this would be one way the Bank can provide sustainable programs and assistance to
Ukraine. Though the reforms supported by the loan were of critical importance, the Government's
desperate need for balance of payments support was clearly the impetus for the fulfillment of EDAL II
conditions. However, real long-term impact will be seen only when the framework set up by the adjustrnent
loan is supported by follow-up technical assistance and investment operations leading to measurable
on-the-ground results.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Detailed comments from the Borrower can be found in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (fGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of additional available documentation on the project can be found in Annex Seven.
-8 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Not applicable
-9-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not Applicable
- 10-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 11 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Projc Cycle                 No. of Prsons an Speialty                 PerfomneRtng
:(e.g 2 Economt i MS. etc.)         Implement 0atio     Development
Month/Year.L   Count       Seialty                          Progress          Objetiv
Identification/Pre
paration                 3   PSD Specialists, 1 Economist, I
January 1997                  Capital Markets Specialist, 1
Operations Officer
March 1997               2   PSD Specialists, I Economist, 1
Accounting Specialist, 1
Bankruptcy Specialist
May 1997                 2   PSD Specialists, I Economist
June 1997                2   PSD Specialists, 1 Economist
July 1997                2   PSD Specialists, 1 Capital
Markets Specialist, 1
Accounting Specialist, 1
Bankruptcy Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1997            2   PSD Specialists
I   Capital Markets Specialist
February 1998                Negotiations
April 1998               1   PSD Specialist
July 1998                1   PSD Specialist
September 1998           I   Economist
I   PSD Specialist
Supervision
October                  2  PSD Specialists                       HS                HS
1998-June 1999:
resided in the
field, constant
supervision
November 1998            I  Operations Officer                     S                 S
February 1999            1  Bankruptcy Specialist                  S                 S
April 1999               1  Capital Markets Specialist            HS                HS
May 1999                 1  Bankruptcy Specialist                  S                 S
May 1999                 1  Accounting Specialist
ICR
July                     2   PSD Specialists                      HS                HS
1999-present,
reside in field
October 1999             1   Operations Officer                    S                 S
-12 -



(Z) Staff:
I     Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estinate
.                        -  : No. Staff weeks                 US$ ()
Identification/Preparation                 62.4                         242.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                      30.5                          66.6
Supervision                                33.4                          93.0
ICR                                        3.76                          13.2
Total                                    130.06                         415.3
- 13 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H--High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
• Macro policies                            OH  OSU*M  O N  ONA
F Sector Policies                           OH  OSU*M  ON  ONA
D Physical
Z Financial                                 OH  OSU*M  O N  ONA
O Institutional Development
O Environmental
Social
O Poverty Reduction
O Gender
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development                O H  O SU  *M  O  N  O NA
O Public sector management
O Other (Please specify)
-14 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           O HS*S OU OHU
I? Supervision                                      *HS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U   O HU
ZI Government implementation performance            O HS * S  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  0 U   O HU
2 Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 15-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
President's Report
Letter of Development Policy
Tranche Release Memos
Loan Agreement
Relevant Back-to-Office Reports
Relevant Project Supervision Reports
Ukrainian Language Version of Borrower Contribution
- 16 -



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
NATIONAL AGENCY OF UKRAINE FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND EUROPEAN INTEGRATION
December 21, 1999
Mr. V. Kreacic
Deputy Resident Representative
World Bank Office in Ukraine
Dear Mr. Kreacic
First of all, let me thank the World Bank and you personally for the attention paid
to the private sector development in Ukraine. Due to this attention the successful
implementation of EDAL-I1 became possible.
The Implementation Completion Report prepared by the World Bank confirms
that once again. The preparation and implementation phases, the main factors that
affected these phases, the achievement of the project objective, and finally the lessons
learned are fully disclosed in the above mentioned Report. Given that, let me comment on
separate statements of the Report, which, we think, do not reflect some aspects of the
project implementation (See attachment).
At the same time, we believe that after the EDAL-II completion Ukraine and the
World Bank will continue the activity aimed at the private sector development in
Ukraine.
Annex: 1 page.
Sincerely,
V. Rogach
First Deputy Head
National Agency
17



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
Comments of the National Agency of Ukraine
for Development and European Integration
on the World Bank EDAL 11 ICR Report
Section              Proposals                     Comments
of report
Section 5.3   Change the version             The Ministry of Economy of
and Section                                  Ukraine has been determined
7.6                                          by a regulatory act of the
Cabinet  of  Ministers  of
Ukraine as an implementing
agency under this project
Section 7.7   Change the version             The main goal of the project
implementation was promoting
the private sector development
as  a  principal  force  for
economic growth on the basis
of market relations. Usage of
the loan funds only supported
the    government    steps.
Therefore,  the  satisfactory
activity of the government was
first of all promoted by the
necessity of implementing the
definite  steps  toward  the
development of the private
sector of Ukraine
Section 8     Change the version in the part of Mr.    Hurenko    Stanislav
non-implementing   the broad  Ivanovich  - head  of  the
base of political leaders     Verkhovna Rada Committee of
Ukraine has optionally been
included  into  the  Inter-
ministerial    Coordination
Council   on   EDAL    II
preparation
18



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
(Unofficial translation)
Assessment by Ukrainian Side of the Level of Achieving EDAL II Conditionalities
1. Formulation and Assessment of Objectives
The privatization program is one the achievements of economic reform in Ukraine. The small-
scale privatization supported by the IFC was practically completed by the end of 1997. Within the
framework of EDAL I, over 8 500 large and medium enterprises transferred at least 70 percent of their
shares to private owners by late 1997.
On completing the implementation of EDAL I, preconditions were created in Ukraine for the
development of entrepreneurship:
* Certain quantitative indicators were achieved relating to the privatization process.
* Foundations were laid down for the development of a stock market (specifically, the
Securities and Stock Market State Commission was set up and stock market participants
united to form self-regulatory organizations, etc.).
External economic activities were liberalized (notably, all export duties were practically
cancelled, the procedure for concluding export contracts was simplified and progress was
achieved in the development of the certification system in Ukraine).
However, the measures taken were insufficient. The legislation was inconsistent in the process of
Ukraine's transition from a planned to a market economy. Not infrequently, the legislative acts were
contradictory, thus creating uncertainty in the entrepreneurial climate. The institutional securing of the
private ownership right is not possible without an effective procedure for privatization and a developed
infrastructure of a stock market. The postponement of privatization restrained the formation of a stock
market. The accounting standards were out-of-date, which hindered the inflow of foreign investments.
The bankruptcy system was ineffective.
Therefore, the principal objective of the project was to promote the development of the private
sector as the main driving force of economic growth on the basis of market relations. The objective and
measures envisioned by the project were aimed at restructuring the production sector of Ukraine's
economy.
To achieve this purpose, the following objectives had to be attained:
a. Consolidation of the privatization process:
*  Extension of the list of enterprises to be privatized and support for the movement of mass-scale
privatization of medium and large enterprises (B, C and D - B, B and r);
*  Privatization of enterprises engaged in marketing, grain distribution, including groups of bread-baking
plants, feed mills, grain-handling and grain procurement enterprises, granaries, elevators, etc;
*  Deepening of privatization by selling shares of large enterprises (with the capital assets valued at not
less than UAH 170 million indexed as of January 1, 1997);
*  Refusal to own residual blocks of shares of medium and large enterprises;
*  Completion of main operations involving individual privatization;
*  Completing the privatization of small-scale enterprises (group A facilities);
*   Speeding up the process of privatizing unfinished constructions sites;
*  Improving general accessibility to information on privatization.
19



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
b. Development of Stock Market
Creation of an effective, well-regulated capital market and its infrastructure;
* Development of market supervision structures;
* Improving the functioning of a secondary securities market, mobilization of a new stock capital for
enterprises.
c. Reforming of Enterprise Accounting:
* Preparing of a schedule (timetable) for developing a national accounting system that is compatible with
the Intemational Accounting Standards;
* Approval by the Securities and Stock Market State Commission of instructions for the companies
which issue securities to present their annual reports in accordance with the National Accounting
Standards that are in compliance with the Intemational Accounting Standards;
* Assistance in the preparation by the Auditors' Chamber, jointly with the largest national accounting
associations, of a program for improving the professional capabilities of using the accounting and audit
systems compatible with the IAS;
* Implementing the training program of the national accounting system compatible with the International
Accounting Standards at least at one institute of higher education.
d. Reform of the Bankruptcy System
* Improving the existing judicial procedures to facilitate the process of restructuring financially viable
enterprises or parts of them, and liquidation of unprofitable enterprises;
• Refining of the mechanisms available in the effective law regarding the requirements for the
submission of a bankruptcy application, notification of all parties before a preliminary hearing, and the
initiation of a restructuring and liquidation process;
e Refining of the mechanisms available in the effective law regarding the partial and complete writing
off of debts, and the voting procedure, which is compulsory for dissenting creditors;
* Refining of the mechanisms available in the effective law regarding the imposition by a court of a
moratorium on repayment to creditors of debts accrued before the submission of an application, and
the termination of all creditor's actions against the debtor and its property since the date of submission
of an application;
* Clarification and elimination of inconsistencies in the existing law regarding the role and obligations of
secured creditors in the restructuring and liquidation process;
•  Development of training programs, professional standards, disbursement mechanisms and a structure
of a self-regulatory organization, which will unite the property administrators and liquidators in
matters of bankruptcy;
* Initiation at a bankruptcy court of an action in the matter of liquidation of two post-privatized debtor-
enterprises that were formerly owned by the state, and the restructuring of two post-privatized debtor-
enterprises formerly owned by the state.
e. Deregulation of entrepreneurial activity
* Implementing the provisions of Enactment #79/98 of the President of Ukraine "On Eliminating the
Constraints that Restrict the Development of Entrepreneurial Activity," (dated February 3, 1998);
* Developing and introducing a mechanism for analyzing the legislative and normative acts which
regulate entrepreneurial activity, with representatives of the private sector involved;
* Simplifying the existing system of licensing of entrepreneurial activity;
* Simplifying the existing system of verifications and inspections of enterprises, a substantial reduction
of the excessive number of such verifications and inspections.
20



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
2. Attaining of Objectives
In the process of project development, all the objectives set have not been achieved. However, it
should be noted that the results of EDAL II may become evident only after a certain period of time when
favorable conditions have been fully provided for operation of privatized enterprises each of which may be
an emitter of securities. It is only then that one can speak with certainty of the efficiency of the stock
market. Therefore, an attempt to provide today a complete and exhaustive assessment of the extent to
which the global objective of the loan has been achieved would be rather problematic. Current assessments
of the progress made in attaining some project objectives are presented below.
a. Macroeconomic policy - significant achievement
As a Borrower, Ukraine sought to complete small-scale privatization, to privatize at least
9 500 medium and large enterprises, to privatize enterprises involved in marketing and distribution of
grain, to deepen the privatization by selling the shares of large enterprises, to refuse the ownership of
residual blocks of shares of medium and large enterprises, to complete the basic operations relating to
individual privatization, to speed up the process of privatizing unfinished construction sites. The fulfillment
of these conditionalities enable us to improve the general macroeconomic situation of the country, thus
ensuring more favorable conditions for forming the budget of revenues. From the beginning of privatization
process more than 65,000 objects have become non-state owned. Based on the number of employees
(62.5%), share of capital assets (more than 50%), and industrial production turnover (53%) the "critical
mass" was reached on the privatized enterprises this year. And it has the most important impact on the
common situation of economy in the separate regions as well as in the whole country. Taking into account
privatized enterprises, non-state sector of economy produces the majority of goods and consumer services.
The analysis of dynamics of production growth rate in principal industrial sectors for January-
August 1999 proves that the Ukrainian industry turns gradually out from the crisis situation and provides
the growth of production output (0.5% for 8 months of this year) comparing with the same period of the
last year.
b. Introduction of regulating actions in certain sectors - significant achievement.
The introduction of effective state regulation in certain sectors of entrepreneurial activity was a
particularly important objective of the project. The above-referenced work was carried out in the following
areas:
1. Implementation of the provisions of Enactment #79/98 of the President of Ukraine "On
Eliminating the Constraints that Restrict the Development of Entrepreneurial Activity," dated February
3, 1998.
The Plan of Actions for 1998, developed and approved by the Government of Ukraine to execute
the above-mentioned Presidential Enactment has been fulfilled in full volume. A plan for 1999 has
been developed, brought to the notice of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and forwarded to the
State Committee of Ukraine for the Development of Entrepreneurship for exercising control and
execution. Work is underway to implement the plan.
2. Developing and introducing a mechanism for analyzing legislative and normative acts which
regulate entrepreneurial activity, with representatives of the private sector involved.
Currently, the institution of state authorized agents is functioning in localities, it constantly
cooperates with representatives of business circles. On the basis of regular consultations with the
unions and associations of entrepreneurs and individual entrepreneurs in the form of congresses,
conventions, councils, conferences, seminars, round tables, etc, work has been carried and is now
underway to improve the normative and legislative basis of entrepreneurial activity.
21



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
3. Simplifying the existing system of licensing of entrepreneurial activity
The Licensing Chamber of Ukraine has developed drafts of relevant laws of Ukraine, which have been
forwarded, on the Govemment's initiative, to the Supreme Council for consideration. A relevant Enactmnent
of the President of Ukraine has been issued aimed at introducing a simplified system of permits for carrying
out entrepreneurial activity. Work is underway to implement the provisions of the Enactment.
4. Simplifying the existing system of verifications and inspections of enterprises, substantial reduction
of the excessive number of such verifications and inspections.
Relevant Enactments of the President of Ukraine have been issued and Regulations of the Cabinet of
Ministers of Ukraine have been adopted which define the notions of certain types of verifications and point
to the need for drawing up annual schedules for conducting such verifications. In accordance with the
above-referenced Plan for 1999, work is underway to analyze the normative and legislative acts of the
executive power bodies regarding verifications and inspections of enterprises.
c. Financial objectives - insignificant achievement.
The measures which were envisioned for attaining the financial objectives of the project, to a great
extent overlapped the above-listed actions aimed at macroeconomic stabilization. The carrying out of
privatization allowed certain funds to be attracted to the state budget, however, considering the fact that
only in some isolated cases the privatization was carried out for money, it cannot be said that the financial
objectives were achieved in full measure.
d. Institutional development - considerable achievement.
The project objectives of the institutional development were to strengthen state institutions such as the
State Property Fund, the Securities and Stock Market State Commission and the Agency for Bankruptcy
Agency. In addition, it was envisaged, under the project, to create a National Depository and ensure a
further development of self-regulatory organizations participating in the stock market. At the same time,
IAS-compatible accounting training programs were developed and introduced at many institutes of higher
education. Therefore, the objectives and the schedule of institutional transformations under the project can
be considered realistic and adequately defined by the World Bank.
e. Physical objectives - were not set.
3. The Main Factors Influencing Project Implementation
Factors that are not subject to Government Control
The support for the project provided by the World Bank was a factor that considerably influenced the
achievement of the project objectives. The cooperation between Ukraine and the Bank helped the Ukrainian
side to achieve the project objectives to a greater extent and made it possible to use the experience of World
Bank experts in elaborating measures aimed at restructuring the agricultural sector. On the other hand, an
essential factor that affected the EDAL II activities is the slowing down of consideration by the Supreme
Council of the legislative initiatives developed by the executive power structures. Regrettably, the bodies of
executive power have no sufficient leverage to influence the law-making activities of the Supreme Council.
As a consequence, many measures taken under EDAL II have not produced as yet a 100% result.
22



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
Factors that, as a whole, are subject to Government's control
The analysis performed gives grounds to assert that the economic effect of privatization at the
macroeconomic level is greatly lessened due to the following factors that were subject to the Government's
control:
- unfavorable external conditions of activity which do not allow the privatized enterprises to
realize the available potential;
- orientation of the state economic policy to eradicating the shadow economy by introducing
the control over the activity of economic agents, and not to creating conditions for legal
economic activity;
- policy of protectionism of the Government structures with regard to state-owned enterprises;
- not sufficiently developed competitive environment.
At the same time, the signing of a Memorandum on mutual understanding between the Government of
Ukraine, the IBRD and the Government of USA regarding the creation of a clearance depository pertaining
to the securities sector (January 25, 1999) had but a little positive effect.
Factors that, as a whole, are subject to control on the part of implementing agencies.
The insufficient use of possibilities for conducting joint working reviews of the status of
implementation of the loan terms and conditions had an insignificant negative effect on the understanding
of the problems of the Ukrainian side and on ensuring the defining of mutually acceptable ways of
resolving them.
4. Viability of the Project
With the completion of the phase of the mass-scale (certificate) privatization, the reform of
ownership in the broad sense of the word does not come to an end, but gets a powerful start, since after the
initial privatization, a stable and effective system of the ownership rights begins to be gradually formed and
the possibilities open up for the economic realization of this system. The tasks that were not fulfilled at the
first stage of privatization - first and foremost, a deep restructuring of enterprises and attracting of
investments - require the formation of a privatization model that could, at least partially, compensate to the
enterprises for the actually non-economic methods of sales during the initial distribution of property.
The violability of the EDAL project does not raise any doubt as to the development of stock
market. To date, a normative and legal basis has been created in Ukraine, as well as the necessary
infrastructure for the functioning of the securities market. However, the ensuring of effective development
of the private sector of the economy will be dependent on a further improvement and optimization of
Ukraine's stock market structure, which will provide for internal and foreign investors a reliable
mechanism for carrying out their activity in Ukraine.
The implementation of the State regulatory policy will ensure the carrying out of state regulation
at a qualitatively new stage. The main features of the state regulation in the economic and social spheres
will include predictability, consistency and responsibility for the final results of the approved decisions. All
these factors will positively influence the trends of economic growth in Ukraine and increase the social and
political stability in Ukraine.
The World Bank's related investment projects, notably the Private Sector Development Project for
Ukraine, have a positive effect on the project violability. The measures initiated under the above-referenced
project aim to continue and broaden the activity in conformity to the Enterprise Development Adjustment
Project and practically to confirm the creation of favorable conditions for the development of the private
sector.
23



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
5. Project Preparation and Implementation by the World Bank
The World Bank's activities related to the defining and identification of the Enterprise
Development Adjustment Project can be assessed as very satisfactory. This project being aimed at
resolving the problem that is very important for Ukraine - the creation of an effective private sector in this
country - is fully consistent with the development priorities established by the Government, and with the
World Bank's strategy for Ukraine.
Considering the position of the ministries and departments involved in the implementation of the
project conditionalities, the cooperation of the World Bank with Ukraine regarding the assistance in
preparing and expert examination of the project can be assessed as satisfactory. When such preparation
was underway, all main aspects of the project were taken into account: economic, financial, institutional
and technical. The analysis carried out with the comprehensive and qualified assistance of World Bank
consultants was performed at the proper professional level.
At the same time, in order to avoid different interpretations of the content of the measures to be
taken to fulfill the loan conditionalities, we propose that at the stage of preparation and approval of the
project, the translation of the plan of actions (pursuant to separate components of the project) be agreed
with specialists of a relevant implementing agency. Also, the complexity of the project conditionalities,
taking into account the technical, institutional and financial aspects of the process of their fulfillment and
comparatively little experience of the Securities and Stock Market State Commission in building up a
capital market in Ukraine, required more attention and more extensive participation of the World Bank
Resident Mission in supporting the project and stimulating its participants.
The assessment of the World Bank's work involving the supervision of progress in project
implementation is very satisfactory. In the process of project implementation, the World Bank supervision
missions regularly visited Ukraine to identify and characterize the problems that arose in fulfilling the
project conditionalities, and to assess their possible effect on the project development. The timetable of
missions' visits to Ukraine made it possible to assess the progress achieved since the time of a previous
mission, to determine the effectiveness of changes made in the loan conditionalities, and the weakest points
in the project implementation. Based on the results of these missions' activities, aide-memoires were drawn
up including conclusions and recommendations to the Borrower regarding the further work on the project.
One of the examples of constructive cooperation of Ukraine's institutions with the World Bank is the work
of World Bank specialist Vladimir Rudlovcak who was a member of the World Bank Mission which
visited Kyiv last May-June. Another example of such collaboration is the World Bank-Licensing Chamber
joint activities aimed at settling some misunderstandings stemming from different interpretations of
normative acts pertaining to the licensing of, and the system of permits for, entrepreneurship activity.
At the same time, the experience of EDAL-II project implementation revealed the need for raising
the level of the World Bank's understanding of the procedures and priorities of the Ukrainian side, and the
possibilities of certain achievements at the present-day stage of development of Ukraine's economy. It
would be also appropriate, during visits of supervision missions to Ukraine, to organize for implementing
agencies consultations with World Bank specialists on certain project components.
Therefore, during the project implementation, there were no significant deviations from the World
Bank's policies and procedures.
6. Project Preparation and Implementation by Ukrainian Side
The work of the Borrower/implementing agencies on carrying out the EDAL-I1 Project can be
considered satisfactory. The main project objectives have been attained, however, their overall achievement
and further implementation of the project requires the work to be carried out continuously in the directions
that have already been initiated.
24



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
The technical assistance rendered under the project allowed the self-regulatory organizations to
improve their equipment and this, in turn, enabled the Securities and Stock Market State Commission
to commence work on delegating to them certain authorities relating to the regulation of the activity of
professional participants in the securities market.
It should be noted that the Government's obligations under the Memorandum on Mutual
Understanding between the Governnent of Ukraine, the IBRD and the Government of USA regarding the
creation of a clearance depository pertaining to the securities sector, and the non-constructive and
inconsistent position of some staff members of the US AID Resident Mission in Ukraine complicated the
Commission's work in implementing the EDAL-II Project, making impossible the carrying out of any
measures other than those recommended by them, concerning the organizing of fulfillment of the World
Bank's conditionalities.
7. Assessment of Results
The second loan for the development of enterprises consolidated the success achieved during
implementation of the EDAL-1 Project (as was stated above) by bringing the number of privatized large
and medium enterprises to over 9 500 by the end of 1998 and thus completing for the most part the voucher
privatization. Simultaneously, other measures were carried out to strengthen the privatization process, as
was envisaged by the loan terms and conditions.
The initiation and functioning of new economic and legal mechanisms and institutional structures have
become the most important attainment of this phase of privatization from the standpoint of prospects for the
development of the new system of ownership rights. In part, these include:
- the corporate sector of the economy;
corporate securities stock and OTC markets;
- a system (a transitional one for the time being) of institutional investors;
- a social stratum which can be tenmed "a stratum of owners," taking into account its
extraordinary heterogeneity and the absence of legal protection for it.
The formal quantitative success of the mass-scale privatization program is indisputable and quite
obvious. At the same time, the results of this program implementation have been and continue to be the
subject of acute and substantial discussions since there have been no immediate and significant changes in
the economic practice of privatized enterprises. The studies conducted on this issue indicate that, at its
initial stage, the privatization was only a contributory factor for the so-called reactive - unregulated and
spontaneous - restructuring. Such reaction to the new market-type competitive environment consisted in
the fact that the orientation to survival became a dominant model of enterprises' behavior. At the same
time, an analysis of enterprise survey results showed that the prevalent orientation to survival is equally
characteristic of both privatized and state-owned enterprises. It was just for this reason that no essential
discrepancies were revealed neither in the economic practice of the state-owned and privatized enterprises
nor in the economic thinking of their managers.
Also, in order to fulfil the provisions of Enactment # 79/98 of the President of Ukraine "On
Eliminating the Constraints that Restrict the Development Of Entrepreneurial Activity," dated February 3,
1998, work is underway to fulfill the Plan of deregulation measures for 1999. The Plan for 1998 has been
fully fulfilled. A constantly operating mechanism was introduced to analyze the normative and legislative
basis for regulating entrepreneurial activity with the participation of representatives of the broad circles of
entrepreneurs.
Regarding the licensing of entrepreneurial activity:
* A draft Law of Ukraine "On Licensing of Certain Types of Economic Activity" has been
developed and submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration.
25



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
*  A draft Law of Ukraine "On Introducing Amendments into Some Legislative Acts of Ukraine" has
been developed and submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration.
•  A draft Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Introducing Amendments into
Some Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" has been developed.
*  Enactment # 539/99 of the President of Ukraine "On Introducing a Permission System into the
Sphere of Entrepreneurial Activity," dated May 20, 1999, was prepared and issued which
establishes that the license is the only document of a permissive nature giving the right to
conducting a certain type of entrepreneurial activity that is subject to limitation pursuant to the
legislation in force. The Enactment requires that an exhaustive list of documents necessary to
obtain licenses be identified, and the license-granting agencies be prohibited from demanding any
other additional documents, permits, certificates, etc.
Regarding the reduction of excessive number of verifications and inspections of enterprises:
*  Enactment # 817/98 of the President of Ukraine "On Certain Measures on Deregulating
Entrepreneurial Activity," dated July 23, 1998, was adopted. The Enactment which became effective
on September 30, 1998, defines the notions of a routine inspection, and an inspection not provided for
by the plan, of subjects of economic activity
*  Enactment # 727/98 of the President of Ukraine, dated July 3, 1998, "On the Simplified System of
Taxation, Accounting and Reporting of Subjects of Small-scale Entrepreneurship" was prepared and
issued. The Enactment took effect on September 10, 1998, and its norms have become effective since
January 1, 1999. The relevant laws were adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first
reading.
-  Regulation # 112 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, dated January 29, 1999, "On the Procedure
for Coordinating the Conduction of Routine On-site Inspections of the Financial and Economic
Activity of Economic Agents by Control Agencies" was adopted which defines the notions of routine
on-site inspections and points to the need for drawing up annual schedules for conducting them.
-  An analysis of the normative and legislative acts of the executive authorities is being constantly
performed regarding the verifications and inspections of enterprises.
Most of the main objectives of the "Capital Market Reform" component of the EDAL II Project have
been achieved and necessary measures will be continued to be carried out regarding the development of the
securities market in Ukraine pursuant to the World Bank recommendations.
Measures were taken to reform the business accounting system at the enterprises, and also to reform
the bankruptcy system. In accordance with the Law of Ukraine on Accounting and Financial Reporting in
Ukraine of July 16, 1999 the National Accounting Standards which are in compliance with the International
Accounting Standards were introduced. With the adoption, on June 30, 1999, by the Supreme Council of
Ukraine of the Law of Ukraine "On Restoring the Solvency of the Debtor or Acknowledging it a Bankrupt"
and the registration, on September 23, 1999, of the All-Ukrainian Association of Bankruptcy Experts at the
Ministry of Justice, the Ukrainian side has completely fulfilled the loan conditionalities concerning the
above-referenced component. The said law is progressive and unified to meet the world legislation
standards and complies with the tasks undertaken to reform the bankruptcy system in Ukraine. Therefore,
all the terms and conditions under the "reform of bankruptcies' component were adequately reflected in the
Law of Ukraine "On Bankruptcy" ( a new wording) which will become effective on January 1, 2000, thus
initiating a new phase of the bankruptcy system reform. The Law opens up the possibilities for financial
recovery of insolvent enterprises, repayment of debts to the creditors and attracting of real investors by
using the bankruptcy procedures.
On the basis of the aforesaid, all the results achieved should be assessed as satisfactory.
26



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
8. Future Functioning
Despite the considerable progress made in carrying out privatization in Ukraine, the pace of
conducting the case-by-case privatization of strategically important enterprises in sectors such as
telecommunication and electric power industry, continues to be unsatisfactory. Improvement of the
situation in this sphere will have significant positive consequences for both the economic efficiency of
enterprises, and the budget.
Privatization in Ukraine came close to one of the most complicated phases - the monetary sale of the
largest enterprises and monopolies - which requires individual privatization procedures to be developed.
The large external and internal indebtedness demands a quick sale of the state property at a maximum
price. At the same time, the initiation of the most complicated phase of privatization coincided in time with
the intensification of the state's interference in the economy and the increased political instability, which
threatens with the general prohibition of privatization in Ukraine and reprivatization. Under such
conditions, the privatization requires the creation of a well-defined legislative field which would guarantee
the irreversibility of this process, protect the investors from unjustified reprivatization and ensure the
participation in the sale, of the Ukrainian largest enterprises of the strategic investors. The laws on
privatization in separate sectors and monopolies, as well as the involvement of land resources in the
privatization process must become a very important factor. Another aspect of the problem is the enterprises'
activity on the securities market after their privatization. The stock market in Ukraine does yet not perform
the functions of ensuring a rapid flow of capital, the transition of the ownership rights and the protection of
these rights, as well as the attraction of investments. The legislation on these issues is incomplete and, in
may cases, not worked out in detail in regulatory acts.
In order to effectively carry out the monetary privatization, to ensure considerable budget revenues and
investments, it would be appropriate to continue the reforns along the following lines:
-   to sell blocks of shares at advertised biddings and tenders with the aim of attracting world
leaders in respective sectors of economy, which will, firstly, raise the level of possible budget
revenues and, secondly, will help improve the management of privatized enterprises, broaden
produce sales markets, attract progressive technologies and modernize enterprises as a whole;
-   to involve in the privatization process the enterprises of those sectors which are the most
attractive for investors, namely enterprises of the electric power industry, petroleum refinery,
civil aviation, airport, communication enterprises, as well as agricultural and non-agricultural
enterprises of the agro-industrial complex. The sale of blocks of shares of the enterprises of
the above-mentioned sectors should be made under conditions of the enhanced requirements
of the antimonopoly legislation and barring of the shadow capital from participation in the
competitions;
-   for increasing the number of attractive objects of privatization, to propose that the list of
enterprises that are not subject to privatization, be systematically reviewed and submitted to
the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and for the purpose of gradual reduction of
this list;
-   to simplify the procedure for the sale of unfinished construction sites together with the
respected plots of lands in order to speed up the privatization of these construction projects;
-   to ensure that the contracts for purchase and sale of blocks of shares are one hundred percent
covered with inspections for buyers' compliance with the investment commitments. To take
actions aimed at returning the blocks of shares to state ownership in the event that the buyers
should fail to meet their commitments, as well as the property of privatized enterprises which
have the largest debts to the State budget and the Pension Fund;
-   to annul a certain amount of unsold residual blocks of shares (first and foremost, of the most
unprofitable enterprises) or distribute them among the existing stockholders. For this purpose,
it is necessary to legally establish a mechanism of annulment or distribution of unsold stocks.
To ensure the maximum effect of economic results from the future functioning of the project,
notably, from the implementation of its "Capital Market Reform" component, it is necessary to initiate a
separate investment project including the following main components:
27



Annex 8: Borrower Contribution and Comments on ICR
-   building up of a fully fledged system of registration of the ownership rights to be certified by
securities;
-   thoroughness of the legal basis for capital market regulations;
-   creation of effective system for investors' rights protection;
-   creation of a stock market monitoring system;
-   thoroughness of infrastructure of formed system for securities trade.
In addition, the Securities and Stock Market State Commission stands ready to submit to the
World Bank for consideration a description of a new project, "Information Program and Program of Legal
Support for Participants in the Stock Market," the purpose of this project is to provide to all interested
persons information and consultancy services on the issues relating to the status of development of the
securities market in Ukraine, the normative and legal basis of its functioning and the system of protection
of investors' rights.
As regards the prospects for bankruptcy reform, its pace and effectiveness will depend on the
consistency of reforming Ukraine's economy, the creation of a favorable investment climate, reforming of
the taxation policy, and other economic measures. The pressing issue is the financing of measures and
institutions involved in the bankruptcy reform.
9. Main Experience Gained
The implementation of the Second Enterprise Development Adjustment Project has become a
significant step on the road to building up a market infrastructure in Ukraine. In addition, the system of
disclosing information on the securities market has been improved, changes have been made in the taxation
system for securities operations, EU and IOSCO standards have been introduced for the functioning of
depository, clearance and settlement mechanisms, the membership in self-regulatory organizations was
defined as compulsory for professional participants of capital market and an effort has been made to
develop the depository, settlement and clearance, and payment systems for servicing securities transactions.
However, in order to substantially improve the situation on Ukraine's stock market, it is
insufficient to implement separate measures pursuant to the World Bank recommendations. Without
developing a model of an optimal structure of an effective, liquid and transparent securities market in
Ukraine, and the relevant strategy for transforming its present-day structure, it is impossible to open up and
use the actual potential of the capital market on the way to ensuring macroeconomic stability and economic
growth in the country.
The work carried out under the EDAL II Project confirmed the need for further actions to be taken
to improve the legislative and normative basis to regulate the activity of economic agents in the direction of
eliminating administrative, economic and organizational constraints that restrict the creation of new
enterprises, their activity and development.
However, the main lesson that was leamed from the project implementation is the need for more
qualitative, clearly defined and thorough preparation of the project, that would exclude changes in the
project terms and conditions in the process of their fulfillment. Such preparation should include the
development of a joint purposeful strategy of the Government and the World Bank in the selected sector
with the aim of bringing closer together different views on resolving the problems raised, and addressing all
aspects of the project by the state institutions whose terms of reference provide for fulfillment of the project
conditionalities. In formulating a plan and schedule for achieving the project objectives, both the World
Bank and the Ukrainian side should take into account the interrelation between the legislative and executive
power in Ukraine, as this interrelation substantially influences the fulfillment of those conditionalities
which provide for legislative decision making.
28



