Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. P7224UA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENTADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
Februazy 25, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 18, 1998)
Currency Unit  =   Hrivnya
US$1  =   1.9541 Hrivnya
I Hrivnya  =   US$0.5117
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31
ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
AGSECAL    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASB           Accounting Standards Board
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CMA           Change Management Assistance
CMP           Capital Markets Participant
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSO           Clearing and Settlement Organization
EDAL          Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EDP           Export Development Project
EFF           Extended Financing Facility
EU/TACIS    European Union Prograrn of Technical Assistance for the CIS
FIDL          Financial Institutions Development Loan
GATT          General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IFC           International Finance Corporation :
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IAS           International Accounting Standards
IOSCO         International Organization of Securities Commissions
IPO           Initial Public Offering
ISA           International Standards of Auditing
MFERT         Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
MFS           Interbank Depository System
MINED         Ministry of Education
MOE           Ministry of Economy
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOS           Ministry of Statistics
MPP           Mass Privatization Program
MU            Monitoring Unit
Vice President:          Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:        Paul J. Siegelbaum, ECC1 I
Sector Director:         Lajos Bokros, ECSPF
Task Team Leader:        Bernard Drum, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NAS           National Accounting System
NASDAQ        National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations
NBU           National Bank of Ukraine
NDS           National Depositary System
NSA           National System on Auditing
OTC           Over the Counter
PARD          Professional Association of Registrars and Depositories
PFTS          Over the Counter Trading System
PIF           Privatization Investment Fund
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SBA           Standby Arrangement
SEC           Securities and Exchange Commission
SPF           State Property Fund
SOE           State Owned Enterprise
SRO           Self Regulatory Organization
SSMC          Securities and Stock Markets Commission
STA           State Tax Administration
STF           Systemic Transformation Facility
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
UFPAA         Ukrainian Federation of Professional Accountants and Auditors
IJNCTAD       United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UCPPS         Ukrainian Center for Post-Privatization Support
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
USE           Ukrainian Stock Exchange
VER           Voluntary Export Restraint
WTO           World Trade Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in  e
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



UKRANE:
SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary .........................i
INTRODUCTION
. BACKGROUND .1
Recent Economic Performance                             .1
Government's Economic Reform Priorities                      .2
II.  PROGRESS UNDER THE FIRST ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN ....4
Trade and Price Liberalization                          .4
Privatization                                   .5
Capital Markets Development                             .6
Technical Assistance Component                           .7
m. PROPOSED ACTION PROGRAM                                        .8
Enterprise Privatization                             .8
Capital Markets Development .10
Enterprise Accounting Reform .13
Bankruptcy Reform .16
Deregulation .20
IV. DONOR COORDINATION ........................                                              23
Geeneral ........................                                                    23
EU/TACIS ........................                                                    23
USAID ........................                                                       24
Other Donors ........................                                                24
V. PROPOSED LOAN .25
Background and Rationale for Bank InVolvement .25
Loan Objectives and Description .25
Project Implementation and Key Measures for Disbursement .25
Loan Administration, Procurement, Reporting and Auditing .31
Project Sustainability .32
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement .32
Environmental Aspects .33
Program Objective Categories .33
Benefits and Risks .33
VI. RECOMMENDATION ....................                                                      35



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1    Memorandum on Enterprise Sector Development Policy
ANNEX 2    Policy Matrix
ANNEX 3    Post-Privatization Equity Markets in Ukraine
ANNEX 4    Timetable of Key Processing Events
ANNEX 5    Status of Bank Group Operations in Ukraine
ANNEX 6      Status of IFC Operations
ANNEX 7    Ukraine: Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
ANNEX 8    Ukraine at a Glance
ANNEX 9    Key Economic Indicators
ANNEX 10   External Financing



UKRAINE: SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Ukraine
Implementing Agency:      Ministry of Economy
Amount:                   US$300 million
Terms:                    Single Currency Loan, at the Bank's standard US$ LIBOR-based interest
rate, with a proposed 5-year grace period and a 20-year maturity.
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The main objective of the loan is to support the Government's privatization,
capital markets development, accounting reform, bankruptcy reform and
deregulation programs.  Other objectives are to: (i) provide foreign
exchange for the purchase of critical imports and (ii) support the
development of the foreign exchange markets. The reform program to be
supported by the Loan will include the completion of a mass privatization
program of 9,500 medium and large enterprises as well as continuing the
individual privatization of large attractive enterprises. It will include the
consolidation of the legislative framework and institutions to regulate the
capital markets including the Securities and Stock Markets Commission,
self-regulatory organizations for market intermediaries and an effective
trading, depository and clearing and settlement infrastructure. The program
will support the implementation of international accounting and auditing
standards throughout the enterprise sector and the implementation of an
effective modern bankruptcy process in Ukraine. It will also support
measures to simplify and speed up the processes for private business
licensing, registration and inspections, and the institutionalization of the
deregulation processes including public/private consultative mechanisms.
Benefits:                 The reforms would ensure the primary ownership transfer of most
enterprises from the public to the private sectors and accelerate the
secondary ownership changes already underway, promoting private
initiative as the main engine of economic development and growth and
providing a competitive deregulated environment within which the private
sector can flourish. The loan would support the strengthening of well
regulated capital markets, promoting securities trading after privatization,
encouraging further ownership consolidation and other post-privatization
restructuring and governance improvements and the mobilization of
domestic and foreign resources for equity investment.
The loan would also promote improved accountability in the enterprise
sector and the capital markets, directly encouraging foreign and local
i



investment, and would promote an orderly bankruptcy process which would
ensure effective enterprise exit and asset reallocation mechanisms.
Risks:                    The main risk is the possible loss of political commitment to reform due to
opposition from vested interests. Experience elsewhere and also during the
first EDAL program, however, has shown that effective and rapid
privatization creates a momentum that is very difficult to reverse, especially
if the program is designed, as this one has been, to promote rapid change
and enterprise restructuring and adaptation to the market after privatization.
A second risk is that the implementing agencies will not be able to handle a
program of this magnitude. This risk has been effectively minimized by
promoting a bottom-up approach to privatization which harnesses the
dynamics at work at the enterprise level and by ensuring that the enterprise
employees and population at large are able to participate fully in the
program. The experience of the first EDAL showed that judicious use of
technical assistance, largely in the form of grants from other donors, very
effectively helped to ease implementation bottlenecks and this technical
assistance will continue during the EDAL II period. The third major risk is
that the level of donor support needed to maintain the reform program in
Ukraine may not be maintained. This risk has increased recently with some
of the failures in other parts of the reform program. This risk will be
minimized if the program supported by the Loan is successful but the Bank
will also keep up its donor coordination efforts to try to ensure continued
support for Ukrainian privatization, capital markets development,
accounting reform, bankruptcy reform and deregulation, as the program
proceeds,
Schedule of Disbursement:  Three tranche disbursement, the first immediately after loan effectiveness
(expected in March 1998); the second and third--provided the
macroeconomic framework remains satisfactory--when the policy actions
specified in this document have been implemented (expected in July 1998
and December 1998, respectively).
Economic Rate of Return:   N/A
Project ID Number:        UA-PE-49502
Poverty Category:         N/A
This report is based on the work of missions that visited Ukraine between January 1997 and November 1997
comprising Messrs/Mmes. Bernard Drum, Nikolai Korol, Beth Shair, Igor Artemiev, Gregory Jedrzejczak,
Lilia Burunciuc, Sandra Durham, Nena Manley, Andrew Stone and Arlene Mirsky. Messrs/Mmes Vesna
Petrovic, Rizalino Zamora and Chau Bui provided administrative support and helped process the
documentation. The peer reviewers were Mr./Mrne. John Nellis and Cheryl Gray. Messrs. Paul Siegelbaum
and Lajos Bokros are the Country Director and Sector Director, respectively.
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO UKRAINE
INTRODUCTION
I submit for your approval the following report on a proposed Second Enterprise Development
Adjustment Loan to Ukraine for US$300 million. The Loan would be at the Bank's standard US$
LIBOR-based interest rate with a maturity of twenty years, including five years of grace.
I. BACKGROUND
Recent Economic Performance
1.    Transforming Ukraine's economy from a centrally planned system to a market-oriented one has
proven to be a daunting challenge. Policy failures during the first three years of Ukraine's independence,
combined with major external shocks compounded the macroeconomic instability. By 1994, officially
recorded output had fallen by 50 percent since 1990 and inflation, while coming down from
hyperinflationary levels, was still in triple digits. And, although the fiscal deficit was reduced, the
current account deficit widened and the external situation became increasingly tenuous with a large
accumulation of payment arrears (mainly on gas imports from the former Soviet Union (FSU)). Living
standards deteriorated sharply and poverty increased.
2.    In October 1994, a clear break was made from past policies as Ukraine began to lay the
foundations for macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms. An IMF-supported stabilization
program (through a systemic transformation facility, and three stand-by arrangements) entailed tight
fiscal and monetary policies with the aim of lowering inflation to about 1 percent monthly. The World
Bank has supported a wide-ranging series of measures aimed at reducing Government intervention in the
economy, developing competitive markets and introducing elements of a social safety net through a
Rehabilitation Loan followed by adjustment loans in the enterprise, agricultural and energy sectors.
3.    Much has been accomplished over the last three years. Inflation has been sharply reduced (to 40
percent annually in 1996 and 16 percent in 1997); the exchange rate was unified and a substantial degree
of current account convertibility established; a new currency was successfully introduced; the trade
regime has been liberalized; domestic prices have been largely decontrolled, consumer subsidies reduced
and energy prices increased to world levels for non-household users (and substantially raised for
household users); tax reform has been initiated; the state order system has been abolished; a mass
privatization program is being implemented successfully; agricultural land reform is being initiated; and
a radical restructuring of the electricity and coal sectors is underway.
1



4.    There are, however, a number of factors that point to the fragility of these early successes and
indicate the considerable challenges ahead in securing macroeconomic stability and restoring growth.
First the stabilization effort is fragile. Tight monetary policy has not been accompanied by sufficient
structural measures to reduce expenditures. In effect, the fiscal situation appears better than it is; the
cash deficit was contained to a substantial extent by running up arrears and postponing expenditures.
Such a stance is clearly not sustainable even in the short-term and the Government needs to address the
immediate precarious fiscal situation in addition to key structural causes of the fiscal imbalance. Second
economic activity remains weak. Officially recorded GDP fell by a further 10 percent in 1996 and
continued to fall, albeit at a slower rate, during 1997. But much private sector activity appears to be
channeled into the unofficial economy which is large and growing. Although the informal economy has
cushioned the impact of the decline in officially recorded GDP, it has negative sides too: it reduces the
tax and foreign exchange base and makes macroeconomic stability that much harder to sustain. nird
there have been setbacks in several areas of the reform program, notably in the slow progress in tax
reform, the inability to achieve greater cost recovery in the energy sector, in the slow progress in
agricultural sector reform, and in a tendency to create or reinforce monopolistic state structures, notably
in agriculture, to handle market activities.
Government's Economic Reform Priorities
5.    Today, the major challenge facing Ukraine is how to restore the confidence of its financiers,
domestic and international, as well as multilateral. Plainly, a program of broad and deep structural
reforms is needed to do this, complementing a dramatic fiscal austerity program to deal with the
immediate fiscal pressures. The government recognizes this need, yet is forced to balance it against the
political realities of seeking consensus with a fragmented and increasingly hostile Parliament in an
election year. Avoiding fiscal crisis, restoring a sustainable fiscal balance and positioning the economy
to restore growth all depend on the government's ability to manage this challenge.
6.    For the medium term, achieving sustained economic growth and accelerating the transition to a
market economy will be the Government's overriding priorities. The development of a dynamic private
sector is intended to play a key role in the achievement of these priorities and both macro and micro level
reforms will be aimed at promoting a stable business environment in which private sector activity can
flourish. The reform program will include monetary and fiscal policies aimed at achieving low and
stable inflation. The tax burden on enterprises will be reduced and a more stable legal framework
created.  Continued privatization and enterprise restructuring, maintaining a competitive trade
environment and implementing financial sector reforms are planned to be accompanied by reducing the
burden of regulation on enterprises and streamlining the public administration to make it more market
friendly. These measures will be accompanied by targeted assistance to the poor.
7.    In terms of macroeconomic objectives, the aim is to halt the decline in output and for growth to
recover to around 4-6 percent annually over the next few years. Inflation fell to around 16 percent in
1997 and is expected to continue decreasing over the next few years. The annual deficit for 1998 is
targeted at 3.7 percent of GDP and at 2.5 percent of GDP by the year 2000. To achieve this, there will be
a strong emphasis on fiscal reform including better budgeting and reform of the taxation system. The
social safety net will be rationalized, the pension system will be reformed. Measures will be taken to
overhaul the tax administration. Fiscal reforms will be accompanied by improved monetary policies and
development of better financial relations between Government and the National Bank, while the
2



payments system will also be improved. The structures within Government for developing and
implementing economic policies will also be improved.
8.    Systemic reforms will continue, including completion of the mass privatization program by the
end of 1998 and the individual privatization of large infrastructure and other enterprises. Post
privatization enterprise reforms will continue. International accounting standards will be introduced.
New business start-ups will be encouraged by dramatically streamlining the regulatory processes, and
exit mechanisms will be improved with the creation of a modem framework and process for bankruptcy.
Reforms will continue in the structure of the capital markets necessary to mobilize new investment
capital for enterprises and to facilitate further ownership transfer in the secondary markets. In the
agricultural sector the focus will be on land privatization and farm reform, restructuring and
demonopolization of agro-industry, marketing and input supply, reduction of subsidies and liberalization
of international trade. In energy the emphasis will be on privatization, price liberalization and cost
recovery.
3



II. PROGRESS UNDER THE FIRST ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
9.    The first Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan (EDAL) was approved by the Bank's Board
on June 27, 1996. Its main objectives were to support the Government's trade and price liberalization,
privatization, capital markets development and post-privatization restructuring programs. It consisted of
an adjustment component of US$300 million to be disbursed in three tranches against satisfactory
implementation of the agreed program and conditions, and a technical assistance component of US$10
million intended to assist primarily post-privatization restructuring of the enterprise sector. The first
tranche was released in July 1996 based on satisfactory implementation of the pre-Board action program.
The second tranche was released in March, 1997 and the third tranche in October, 1997.
Trade and Price Liberalization
10.   The trade and price liberalization measures supported by the EDAL program consisted largely of
the completion of the actions initiated in 1994 under Bank's Rehabilitation Loan program. Prior to early
1996, Ukraine had accomplished much in the area of trade and price liberalization. The exchange rate
had been unified and convertibility established for most current account transactions. Import and export
quotas had been eliminated and export contract registration almost completely eliminated. Most
domestic prices had been completely liberalized. Energy prices at that time had been adjusted to world
equivalent levels. Subsidies to households had been substantially reduced and cost recovery on public
services increased.  The system  of state purchases had been abolished except for budgetary
organizations, and the majority of ceilings on price markups and profit margins had been abolished.
11.   However, a number of impediments to a competitive environment still remained in place in early
1996. The Special Export Regime (SER), which required the granting of permission to export certain
commodities, still applied to around six percent of Ukraine's exports. Export registration was still
required for goods subject to the SER and to goods sensitive to anti-dumping requirements, and subject
to international agreements and voluntary export restraints (VERs). Minimum prices on exports
(indicative prices) were applied to around half of Ukraine's exports despite the official removal of this
restriction during the previous year. Ukraine still applied the system of import quality certification
inherited from the Soviet Union and this required extensive certification of imported goods. Price and
profit margin controls were still applied to "artificial monopolies" and the price inspection units were
actively enforcing these restrictions. Also despite the earlier formal removal of many trade and price
restrictions there had been many instances where branch ministries and local administrations tried to
reimpose them, usually illegally but sometimes successfully in an informal manner.
12.   Under the EDAL pre-Board action program, a Presidential decree limited the application of
indicative prices to exports of 14 narrowly defined commodities, and profit and trade margins on bread
and bread products were removed. Import tariffs were maintained at less than 30 percent. Most of the
EDAL trade and price liberalization conditions were for second tranche and despite difficulties most of
them were effectively met. The main obstacle was Parliamentary refusal to rescind the SER and to
remove export duties on live animals and skins. However, the Government was able to neutralize the
SER without new legislation. Export registration was also neutralized by issuing an order that
registration was to be for statistical purposes only and could not be used as a means of preventing
exports. Indicative prices on metals and scrap were removed. Remaining price controls on artificial
monopolies were removed and the activities of the price inspection units were limited, as agreed, to
4



goods whose prices are administratively set. The Bank waived the condition to abolish import quality
certification and replaced it with a requirement for satisfactory progress towards compliance with
international norms as determined by the World Trade Organization. The second tranche condition to
abolish remaining export duties (and these are applied only to live animals and skins) were transferred to
third tranche but could not be met since Parliament refused four times to take the necessary action. This
condition, and the related condition requiring removal of indicative prices on these products, were
waived since they were not central to the EDAL privatization and capital markets programs which had
been implemented successfully. They were, however, maintained as second tranche release conditions of
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSECAL).
13.    Despite good progress since 1994, protectionist lobbies, some branch ministries and local level
officials have put up a strong resistance to trade and price liberalization and this resistance continues.
Trade and price liberalization strike at the heart of the old order and at the opportunities for rents and
bribes that the old restrictions provided. It will be some time before the reality at the customs posts and
the behavior of local bureaucrats fully reflect the liberalizing policy actions taken by the central
Government.
Privatization
14.    The privatization program supported by the EDAL has been one of the most notable successes of
economic reform in Ukraine. Privatization had made a painfully slow start during the early 1990s, with
many delays and much initial hostility from Parliament, including the creation of a negative list of 6,000
enterprises not subject to privatization. However, the framework for mass privatization in Ukraine was
dramatically streamlined under the Rehabilitation Loan program in late 1994/early 1995. The previously
tortuous and complicated procedures for enterprise preparation and share sales were simplified at that
time by a series of decrees and regulations. For the 8,000 medium/large enterprises required by decree to
be subject to mass privatization, the requirement for detailed valuation was removed and simple book
value applied in its place. Transparent share allocation plans for these enterprises were required by
decree. Sales of at least 70 percent of the shares of large enterprises and 100 percent of the shares of
medium-sized enterprises were also required.  The procedures and membership of privatization
commissions were greatly simplified. Tight deadlines were set for every stage of the mass privatization
process. The State Property Fund (SPF) of Ukraine was given full authority to implement privatization.
Incentives were given to enterprise managers who cooperated with the privatization process. Standard
document packages for preparing enterprises for privatization were prepared and distributed to all
enterprises on the privatization list.
15.    Paper privatization certificates were introduced and distributed to the population free of charge.
During 1995, an auction center network with over 1,000 bid collection sites throughout Ukraine was
created. A country wide public information campaign was implemented. Later in 1995, a new form of
privatization certificate known as a compensation certificate was introduced. Compensation certificates
were intended to compensate citizens for the loss of their savings due to inflation during the early 1990s.
These certificates, unlike privatization certificates, are tradable between individuals and are also able to
clear the privatization auctions with no floor price restrictions. They are, therefore, a very useful means
of speeding up privatization in that their use guarantees that all shares offered for sale for compensation
certificates will actually be sold.
5



16.   The streamlined methodology proved very effective. The EDAL pre-Board condition of 2,000
medium/large enterprises transferred at least 70 percent to private hands was met on schedule. The
second and third tranche conditions of 3,500 and then 5,000 medium/large enterprises privatized were
met ahead of schedule. The second tranche condition that procedures for agro-industrial enterprises be
simplified and brought into line with those for enterprises in other sectors was met. This required
considerable political will and action by the President. Agro-industrial enterprises, as a percent of the
total number of enterprises privatized, consistently exceeded the targets agreed under the EDAL
program. The Cabinet of Ministers identified a number of large monopoly enterprises for individual
privatization and work has begun on the privatization of these enterprises.
17.   Small scale enterprise privatization had also suffered in the early 1990s from overcomplicated
procedures and lack of political will, especially at the local level. During the pre-Board period of the
EDAL, however, a number of actions were taken that strengthened the authority of the SPF to implement
the program, including taking disciplinary measures against local officials. The signing of new leases by
workers collectives was stopped.  Measures were taken to simplify the small scale enterprise
privatization procedures and improve incentives for local authorities to sell small businesses and for
employees to go through the privatization process. The donors, in particular IFC, provided effective
support to cities willing to implement the small scale privatization program. As a result of all of the
above measures, and the hard budget constraint on local authorities which pushed them to sell small
enterprises to generate revenues, the speed of small scale privatization accelerated dramatically towards
the end of 1995. By early 1996, small scale privatization was proceeding at the rate of about 1,500
enterprises per month. This rate continued throughout the period of the EDAL program and small scale
privatization is now virtually complete in all major cities throughout Ukraine and around 90 percent
complete throughout most of the country.
18.   The agreed EDAL privatization program was therefore successfully completed and surpassed in
all areas. The Chairman of the SPF has on several occasions stated that this success could not have
occurred without the strong incentive of the EDAL's policy conditionality which kept the spotlight on the
need to meet the agreed privatization targets on time.
Capital Markets Development
19.   By 1995, experience in other transitional countries had shown that for mass privatization to
realize its full potential there was a strong need to create a capital markets infrastructure which could
permit and promote further ownership transfer through the secondary trading of enterprise shares.
Furthermore, a number of highly visible frauds had occurred in neighboring countries, where unregulated
financial intermediaries had taken advantage of small investors. Ukraine learned from these lessons, and
worked on developing its capital markets infrastructure before the mass privatization program was able
to deliver large volumes of shares to the market. The pre-Board action program of EDAL included the
creation of a new Securities and Stock Markets Commission and the transfer to the Commission of
responsibility for supervising investment funds, investment companies, registrars and depositories.
Work also began, with help from the donors, on the development of self-regulatory organizations (SROs)
of market participants. The intention was eventually to transfer some responsibility for market
regulation to these SROs, as in advanced market economies.
20.   The EDAL program required that the Commission be given a full mandate to supervise all
aspects of the securities markets, by decree or by Law. This was to include implementation of all aspects
6



of investor protection, creation and licensing of independent registrars, depositories and custodians,
licensing of broker/dealers, investment advisors, portfolio managers and their SROs, and licensing of
market trading systems. The program also required that membership of SROs be made compulsory for
all professional market participants, that there should be unimpeded transfer of share registries to
independent registrars, and that the national depository system for securities should begin operations.
21.   Progress in implementing the agreed program  surpassed expectations.  The strategy of
developing the necessary market supervision mechanisms and infrastructure before a large volume of
shares became available proved very effective. In the absence of large trading volumes, the capital
markets reform program was relatively non-controversial and was implemented with little opposition,
particularly in the early stages of the program. Parliament approved a Law in late 1996 giving the
Commission most of the power it needed and the Commission was then able to issue regulations to give
effect to its mandate. In the later stages of the EDAL program period, as securities trading started to
accelerate, there were unsuccessful efforts from opponents of the programn to undermine the role and
authority of the Securities Commission, and even some reluctance by the Commission itself to empower
SROs. However, pre-Board, second and third tranche capital markets conditions were met on time and
the program was completed during the first half of 1997.
22.   As a result of the effective mass privatization program, there has been a rapid build up in share
trading, on the over-the-counter (OTC) market and through the stock exchanges. There are already an
estimated US$3 billion of securities in circulation in Ukraine and of these, enterprise shares account for
around 75 percent. Trading on the Kiev OTC market increased very rapidly during the first half of 1997
and reached US$22 million in July, 1997 alone before slowing down during the second half of the year
following the decline in the international securities markets. The Securities Commission has already
been playing its enforcement role, canceling several operating licenses of market participants following
investor complaints.
Technical Assistance Component
23.   The EDAL technical assistance (TA) component was subject to predictable delays in
implementation, due mainly to the lack of experience in Ukraine in implementing externally financed TA
programs. Nevertheless, the lessons learned from the Institution Building Loan proved effective,
particularly the need to avoid too many bureaucratic approvals in the procurement and implementation
processes. The creation of a project implementation unit (PIU) within the SPF and the innovative
implementation agreement between the PIU and the autonomous Ukrainian Center for Post-Privatization
Support (UCPPS) avoided the kinds of initial implementation problems that the IBL and some other
Bank projects in Ukraine have suffered.
24.   EDAL-financed personnel are in place both in the UCPPS and PIU, office accommodation and
facilities are now adequate, a long term procurement advisor has completed a one year assignment,
operational manuals have been prepared, the two first major enterprise restructuring sub-components are
already under implementation and procurement is almost complete for a further three sub-components.
7



III. PROPOSED ACTION PROGRAM
25.   Constraints to private sector activity such as punitive and arbitrarily applied taxation, over-
regulation, corruption, ambiguous, complex and constantly changing laws, and the poor state of
development of the financial sector, will be addressed in a number of proposed Bank lending operations.
These include the proposed Public Resources Management Loan, the Public Administration Reform
Loan, the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and the two financial sector credit lines. The proposed
EDAL II will complement these loans as well as donor financed activities and focus on completing the
privatization process which is now well underway, consolidating capital markets reform, beginning
"second generation" enterprise reforms in the areas of accounting and bankruptcy to promote competitive
activity and enterprise restructuring in the post-privatization environment, and initiating an action
program in deregulation and improved public/private consultation.
Enterprise Privatization
26.   In early 1997, the privatization program supported by the first EDAL was reaching completion.
However, a number of issues were giving cause for concern. Mass privatization, although only half
completed, was losing momentum and appeared in danger of grinding to a halt. The pace of new
corporatization had decreased, the numbers of enterprises reaching the 70 percent privatization target
each month were steadily falling, the number and value of share packages offered for sale by the SPF
were falling and there was increasing use of non-transparent methods of privatization such as non-
commercial tenders. There were a number of factors contributing to these negative developments,
including (i) serious undermining of the use of compensation certificates after Parliament, in late 1996,
offered cash compensation for certificates to the citizens as an alternative to using the certificates for
privatization, (ii) delay by Parliament in adopting the 1997 Privatization Program, (iii) the complexity
and size of enterprises remaining in the privatization pipeline, (iv) moves by branch ministries to create
state holding companies to maintain state ownership in "privatized" firms, and (v) a change in leadership
in the State Property Fund, followed by rejection by Parliament of the new Chairman, which created an
effective vacuum in SPF leadership for several weeks.
27.   In a joint letter to the Prime Minister in April, 1997, the IMF, World Bank, USAID and
EU/TACIS voiced their concerns about these problems. They warned of the likely negative impact on
international support for Ukraine that a slowdown in privatization would cause, and made a set of
recommendations aimed at bringing the privatization program back on track and up to speed. In
summary, the major recommendations were (i) restoring the volume of enterprise shares offered for sale
each month and re-confirming the Government's commitment to reach the end- 1997 target of privatizing
at least 70 percent of the shares of 8,000 medium/large enterprises since January 1, 1995; (ii) vigorously
promoting the use of compensation certificates as a privatization instrument, since these certificates can
clear the auctions with no floor price restrictions, and de-linking the use of these certificates from the
loss of any possible cash compensation; (iii) offering shares in highly attractive, large and "strategic"
enterprises for sale in the compensation certificate auctions with the aim of privatizing 40 percent of the
statutory funds and 80 percent of the numbers of these enterprises by the end of 1997; (iv) halting the use
of non-transparent methods for privatization; (v) committing to an annual privatization plan for 1997 that
clearly sets forth the targets agreed with the donors; (vi) stopping the creation of state holding companies
or the enlarging of the negative list; (vii) ensuring that agro-industrial privatization proceeds according to
the agreed streamlined procedures; and (viii) allowing all registered securities market structures to
8



participate in the privatization process. In subsequent discussions, the new acting Chairman of the State
Property Fund gave his endorsement to the recommendations and took rapid and decisive action to
implement them. Parliament approved, and President Kuchma later signed into Law, a 1997
Privatization Program which gave strong support to most of these recommendations.
28.   In September, 1997, the Parliament approved in first reading a bill to reduce the negative list of
enterprises not subject to privatization from around 6,000 enterprises to only 2,541 enterprises and in
November, 1997, approved the bill in second reading. Many of the "enterprises" which would remain on
the list would be non-commercial entities such. as libraries, museums, etc., that are not readily
privatizable and are not really enterprises as commonly understood. Other initiatives taken by the SPF
Chairman include measures to streamline the organization structure and functioning of the SPF itself and
to improve information flows on the privatization process, particularly with respect to the use of
privatization proceeds. The Acting SPF Chairman has encountered much hostility from Parliament and
it remains to be seen whether he will be able to achieve his ambitious goals but his results to date are
impressive and he has asked for and has been promised the full commitment of the donors to continue
supporting his program.
29.   The proposed program to be supported by EDAL II is outlined in the attached policy matrix. By
the end of the EDAL II program, estimated for late 1998, the mass privatization process will be virtually
completed in Ukraine. Current estimates are that the total universe of privatizable medium/large
enterprises was not much more than 12,000. By the end of 1998 close to 11,000 of these medium/large
enterprises will have been at least 70 percent transferred since privatization began in 1992. Numerical
targets have been established as tranche release conditions. In addition to the 11,000, several hundred
more medium/large enterprises will be more than 50 percent privatized and several hundreds more
already corporatized and on the way to privatization. Targets have also been established for privatization
of residual government shareholdings in medium/large enterprises. By the end of 1998, more than half
of the total workforce in Ukraine will be working in privatized medium/large enterprises. In addition to
this, around 44,000 small scale enterprises will have been privatized since independence and small scale
privatization in Ukraine will be to all intents and purposes complete.
30.   Substantial progress will also have been made in privatizing grain storage and distribution
facilities, which, up to recently had been virtually untouched by privatization. The Government issued a
decree in November, 1997, demonopolizing the Khlib Ukrainy grain conglomerate and targets for
privatization of grain marketing and distribution enterprises have been agreed to be implemented as
tranche release conditions. The program also includes actions to privatize monopoly, infrastructure and
other enterprises not suitable for mass privatization. Prior to Board presentation, the Government
initiated the privatization of ten large enterprises which will be privatized through IPOs and trade sales
in 1998 and the action program will include rapid progress in the implementation of these transactions.
It is also planned to continue rapid privatization of unfinished construction sites. These sites are a
potentially valuable resource to the new private sector and so far they have been largely unavailable for
development. The EDAL II program includes quantitative targets for privatization of unfinished
construction sites. Finally, improvements will continue to be made in the quality of information
reporting on the results of privatization.
9



Capital Markets Development
31.   Under the first EDAL program, the Government took important first steps in establishing a
capital markets infrastructure in Ukraine so that the markets would not be inundated by a large volume of
unregulated securities trading resulting from the mass privatization program. The window of opportunity
offered by the late start of mass privatization also allowed action to be taken while the reforms were still
relatively non-controversial and had not attracted opposition. As a result, the capital markets in Ukraine
are now relatively well regulated compared with other FSU countries. But the achievements to date need
to be consolidated and more needs to be done before Ukraine's capital markets infrastructure can provide
the basis for secure and efficient secondary securities trading and mobilization of new equity flows
necessary for Ukraine's development.
32.   Despite the already established legal mandate of the Securities Commission to regulate the
markets, the Commission is still relatively weak in terms of implementation capacity. However,
following intensive efforts with donor support to help create self-regulatory organizations (SROs) of
market participants, three SROs have now been licensed. Much more remains to be done in improving
the legal and regulatory environment for market operations and in encouraging the creation of a well-
functioning, privately-owned market infrastructure.
33.   The program proposed to be supported by EDAL II is outlined below and summarized in the
attached matrix. The process of creation of a network of private independent registrars, begun under the
first EDAL, will be continued. The role of SROs will be strengthened and the requirement for
compulsory membership in SROs for all professional market participants will be enforced. The national
depository system for securities will be made fully operational and improvements will be made in market
transparency by improving disclosure requirements. The Commission itself will be strengthened to
allow it to exercise its regulatory functions but at the same time there will be a commitment from
Govermment not to own any interest in market structures or to discriminate in any way against or
between market participants.  Further improvements will be made to the legal and regulatory
environment, and reforms in the securities taxation will be implemented. To stimulate investor interest
in the markets, initial public offerings (IPOs) will be made for ten attractive state enterprises. This
initiative will be taken in conjunction with the State Property Fund's case by case privatization program.
By the end of the EDAL II program, Ukraine should be well on its way to having the structures and
supervision mechanisms necessary to allow the capital markets to realize their full potential in
mobilizing private capital flows within Ukraine and into Ukraine from abroad.
Consolidation of the Regulatory Functions of a State Securities and Stock Market Commission (SSMC)
34.   In July 1996, the Parliament adopted a Law on the State Regulation of Securities Markets. The
Law strengthened the position of the SSMC (previously established by a Presidential Decree) as a truly
independent regulatory body and transferred to the Commission all regulatory authority in the areas of
licensing professional market participants and issuing and trading in securities, previously scattered
among various governmental bodies. The Chairman of the Commission and its Commissioners were
appointed according to the new Law and started their statutory activities. The Commission issued a
number of its own regulations which, together with the new Law on Regulation and an old Law on
Securities and Stock Exchanges, create a comprehensive temporary base for regulation of capital markets
activities.
10



35.   The Commission has since advanced in building its professional capacity in the areas of review
and approval of prospectuses, licensing and inspection of market participants, and imposition of
sanctions for violation of securities legislation and regulations (in a number of cases successfully
defending it in court). Under the EDAL II program, the Government will further strengthen the mandate
of the SSMC as a principal supervisory body of all activities related to securities markets. Firstly the
division of responsibilities for licensing and supervisory responsibilities between the Commission and
the National Bank of Ukraine has recently been agreed. Banks will establish their activities in securities
markets (trading, custodian, etc.) as separate internal departments--with their own management and staff,
accounting, and financial reporting. This is a necessary prerequisite for the Commission to supervise
banks' activities in securities markets and to establish clear separation between capital market and
lending activities of the banks, according to international standards. Government is also committed
throughout the EDAL II period to refrain from giving a supervisory mandate on capital markets issues to
any organization other than the Securities Commission, thereby further consolidating its role and
functions.
Promotion of Self-Regulatory Organizations
36.   The Government's program recognizes SROs of market participants as essential for the SSMC to
be able to regulate the markets. SROs will also be essential in improving the professional standards of
their participants. A number of measures have been taken to encourage establishment of SROs --
initially for traders and registrars -- as strong partners for the Commission. Trading systems are the best,
"natural" candidates for the SRO function. A Ukrainian Interbank Currency Exchange and a USAID-
sponsored OTC system (PFTS) have received licenses for trading in securities. Three SROs have so far
been licensed. The Commission issued a regulation in mid-1997 requiring mandatory membership of all
market participants in an SRO of their choice. This was the best way to eliminate weak or inactive
participants who had received their license before the Commission was established. Part of the resources
available under the TA component of the first EDAL will be used to strengthen the SROs, and to provide
expertise to the Commission necessary for its supervision of the SROs. By the end of the EDAL II
program period, all licensed professional market participants will either have become members of SROs
or their licenses will have been revoked.
Regulation
37.   A significant effort has been made to improve legislation directly or indirectly influencing
capital markets, and to bring it into line. with EU and IOSCO standards. Improvements will continue
during the EDAL II program. Specifically:
38.   Disclosure.  Regulations have been approved requiring reporting to the Commission and
subsequent publication of all block share transactions of more than 10 percent of a company's total share
capital. Listing procedures by trading systems will be required and enforced by the Commission and
international and EU standards will be applied to all new share issues.
39.   Securities Law. The Commission, assisted by foreign experts and in consultation with the World
Bank, drafted a completely new comprehensive Securities Law. The Law was submitted to the
Parliament and is expected to be approved soon. The new Securities Law regulates, in compliance with
the EU standards, initial public offering of securities, stock exchanges and OTC markets, broker/dealers
11



and other intermediaries, transactions with large blocks of shares, margin and short transactions, unfair
and disorderly market activities. It also provides effective enforcement tools for the Commission.
40.   National Depository System Law (NDS Law) and Regulations. The Parliament has approved in
second reading the NDS Law setting standards for an integrated system for depositing dematerialized
securities. The law has been supplemented by specific SSMC regulations for depositories, custodians
and clearance and settlement. The National Depository System and clearance and settlement systems for
corporate securities will become fully operational during the EDAL II program and regulations
conforming to IOSCO and EU standards will be issued for their operation.
41.   Investment Fund Law. To protect investors against the kinds of massive frauds which recently
affected some transition economies, the Government has given a high priority to preparing a new
Investment Fund Law. The draft, following relevant EU Directives, was submitted to the Parliament for
consideration and adoption is expected soon.
42.   Company Law. Amendments to the Law on Business Associations (a Company Law) have been
submitted to Parliament. These amendments will improve and streamline corporate governance of
publicly traded companies and strengthen shareholders protection in a manner which meets EU
standards.
Taxation
43.   The EDAL II program includes reform of the tax system to encourage growth of regulated
securities markets. First, for tax purposes, transactions concluded at any of regulated trading systems--
stock exchanges and OTC markets--will be treated equally. Second, an analysis has been prepared by the
Securities Commission of taxation of market services related to and revenues from corporate securities in
comparison with state securities and bank products (deposits, certificates of deposits, etc.). Efforts have
been maintained to secure Parliamentary approval to remove the transaction tax (stamp duty) for all
transactions concluded through regulated markets. Changes have also been proposed in the tax law
which would result in all forms of financial investments (corporate stock and bonds, Treasury bills and
bonds, banks deposits and certificates, investment funds, etc.) being treated in a tax-neutral way.
Market Infrastructure
44.   There has been good progress, compared with other FSU countries, in registration of share
ownership of mass privatized companies. About 75 percent of privatized companies have consolidated
the lists of their original shareholders and transferred them to registrars. Some 330 registrars have been
operational, of which about 130 operated by banks or financial groups. The rest, some 200 registrars,
have been organized and financed by issuers. There has been a visible progress in building depository
capacity. In particular, a depository called MFS, established by the major banks and traders has a real
chance of becoming an all-Ukrainian depository for shares. The MFS has been supported by technical
assistance from USAID. An SRO of registrars, custodians and depositories (PARD) was organized
during 1997 and presently has 102 members and is becoming a partner to the SSMC in regulating its
members. The EDAL II program includes targets on the transfer of share registries to independent
registrars and requirements on the publication of shareholder information with imposition of sanctions
for non-compliance.
12



45.   There have been positive developments in building the capacity for regulated secondary trading
in shares. Three regulated market places operate in Kiev and at least one regional universal exchange
trades in shares (Donetsk). These, however, still handle only the minority of total corporate securities
trade in Ukraine. Government has encouraged greater transparency in the secondary markets by creating
incentives for concentration of trade in regulated markets and requiring public disclosure of trades of
large blocks of shares. The Commission has started to build a monitoring system to enforce these
recommendations.
46.   Despite progress, there is still much work to be done to create well functioning, transparent and
robust securities markets. One need is to establish adequate clearing and settlement infrastructure. At
present, transactions are settled on an individual basis. Re-registration (transfer) of shares and payment
arrangements are left to contracting parties. This apparently has hampered the trade of small blocks of
shares and trade between regions and added to market fragmentation and lack of transparency.
Establishment of a consolidated depository system should solve the problems in settlement of securities
(transfer of ownership). The payment side of settlement will require involvement of the NBU. Building
of the necessary market infrastructure requires financing, not always available from private sources.
Clearing and settlement is one area where public money is often used in emerging markets to build
necessary infrastructure. The National Depository System may be another area where the Government
financing is necessary. The SSMC has prepared a proposal for necessary investments to be financed
from the budget and by foreign aid.
Attractive Share Offerings
47.   Capital markets with even the best regulated  institutions cannot flourish without attractive
products to trade. The Mass Privatization Program created a very large number of shares owned by
employees and the public at large. At present, however, only a relatively small fraction of shares of
privatized companies are attractive enough for small investors, in terms of dividends and available
information (disclosure). To give regulated markets an additional incentive, the SPF has progressed with
IPOs of shares of ten attractive companies. Under the EDAL II program These IPOs will be
implemented as a part of the case-by-case privatization transactions, including offerings to strategic and
foreign portfolio investors.
Enterprise Accounting Reform
48.   The early imperative for the enterprise sector in Ukraine was the rapid withdrawal of the state
from enterprise ownership and management. The focus was on primary ownership change through
privatization, secondary ownership change through capital markets development and on creating a
favorable post privatization environment through trade and price liberalization. The emphasis will need
to be maintained in these areas until the processes are complete. However, as the privatization program
continues to create thousands of private enterprises, the focus will need to be increasingly on the "second
generation" of systemic enterprise reforms intended to transform Ukraine into a modem market
economy. Enterprises in Ukraine are operating at present in an environment which lacks transparency,
little disclosure of financial information and virtually no accountability. It is almost impossible to hold
managers accountable for performance. Enterprise managers themselves have no effective means of
making financially sound management decisions or monitoring their impact. There is little trust in
reported information and investors have little basis on which to make investment decisions or monitor
investment performance.  The EDAL II program  includes the implementation of International
13



Accounting Standards (IAS) in Ukraine. Accounting reform will be an indispensable element of the
array of second generation market reforms necessary over the coming years in Ukraine.
49.   Work has already begun, with help from the donors, in initiating the application of IAS. Most
work so far has been in the banking sector. An accounting reform unit was set up during 1996 within the
National Bank of Ukraine (NBU). The general ledger accounts of the NBU's central operations were
revised to incorporate IAS based principles in late 1996 and the consolidated balance sheet is now under
preparation. IAS conversion for the NBU is almost complete. Work has also started on conversion of
commercial banks to IAS. The process is proceeding in two steps, the creation of IAS consistent
reporting forms and then the actual conversion to IAS. 20-30 commercial banks are piloting a new chart
of accounts and reporting forms and official conversion to IAS of all banks took place in January 1998.
50.   Work has also been done on accounting reform in the enterprise sector. A USAID sponsored
accounting reform project started in early 1995. Work has been done with pilot enterprises on the
implementation and training of personnel in IAS, and on the creation of a national association of
accountants and auditors. But much more remains to be done. Short- and medium-term priorities will
include the implementation of the legal and regulatory reforms needed to give full effect to IAS and this
will need to be accompanied by an increased level of technical assistance to train practitioners in IAS.
51.   The proposed EDAL II accounting reform program outlined in detail below and in the matrix
would apply policy conditionality to support and accelerate the adoption and implementation of IAS for
the enterprise sector. As with all other aspects of the proposed EDAL II program, it could not be
successful without large amounts of technical assistance from the donors. During our preparation
missions, we helped create a working group on accounting reform consisting of representatives of all
interested parties from Government, the donors and the private sector. The reform program includes the
recent creation of an Accounting Standards Board, which will oversee the development and
implementation of LAS in the enterprise sector in Ukraine.
52.   One component of the reform program will use the mandate of the Securities Commission to
determine accounting methodologies, financial statement presentation formats and disclosure
requirements for capital markets participants (including all publicly held joint stock companies). The
Commission will initially work with pilot enterprises but will later require reporting according to LAS
from all publicly quoted companies. International Standards on Auditing (ISA) will also be implemented
during the program. Education and Training curricula incorporating IAS and ISA will be developed,
implemented and incorporated into programs for testing, certification and licensing. The recently-
created association of accountants and auditors, the Ukrainian Federation of Professional Accountants
and Auditors (UFPAA) which already has over 1,000 members in 18 regions, will be fully involved in all
aspects of the reform program.
14



53.   The main elements of the accounting reform program to be supported by EDAL II are as follows:
Establish an institutionalJrameworkfor the adoption of International Accounting Standards (IAS)
54.   An authoritative Accounting Standards Board (ASB) has been created. The ASB will provide
for the development of accounting standards in conformity with International Accounting Standards
(IAS) and will approve these standards. The ASB will use the self-regulatory professional body UFPAA
to create a prioritized timetable for the development of Ukrainian accounting standards in compliance
with IAS. The ASB will also provide for the development and issuance of regulations and instructions
on IAS compliance. The creation of the ASB will serve to further the separation of financial reporting
methodologies and presentation formats from tax reporting requirements. The ASB, comprised of a
cross-sector representation, could also serve as a body to coordinate accounting reform initiatives across
sectors and institutions (e.g. banking, tax, Securities Commission, etc.).
Adoptfinancial disclosure requirements in compliance with lASfor joint stock companies
55.   The mass privatization program has resulted in the rapid creation of new joint stock companies.
An important element in the EDAL II accounting reform program will be the issuing of a requirement by
the Securities Commission that these joint stock companies and all capital markets participants prepare
their financial reports according to IAS. This will create a strong momentum for the rapid country-wide
adoption of IAS.
Improve Auditing Standards
56.   Ukrainian auditing procedures and guidelines, currently oriented towards compliance with a
statutory based system, will need to be revised for compliance with ISA. In terms of priorities, as capital
market development is critical to the economic growth of Ukraine, auditing standards could be initially
developed to protect stock market participants (i.e., joint stock companies will be the initial target
requiring use of ISA). The Chamber of Auditors, together with UFPAA, has provided a timetable for the
development and adoption of auditing standards in compliance with ISA. Requiring the use of ISA by
the SSMC will accelerate the country-wide pace of adopting ISA.
Implement Educational programs
57.   With the introduction and adoption of IAS and ISA based accounting and auditing frameworks,
new educational programs and materials will be needed to bring these concepts to the classroom. At
present, selected accounting courses are offered in university curicula but accounting is not recognized
as a specific degree. The Ministry of Education, in coordination with UFPAA, has worked with a local
university in developing a pilot program to establish an accredited accounting program in conformity
with IAS and ISA at the undergraduate and graduate levels and will require implementation of that
program. Requiring the development and implementation of accredited university curricula on
accounting will contribute to generating a supply of qualified accountants necessary to meet the demand
for IAS-based financial reporting, as generated by the requirements of the Securities Commission.
15



Professional Quality Control
58.   For adequate quality assurance of the accounting profession, further developments are needed in
training, testing, certification and licensing. To address these needs, the Chamber of Auditors, in
conjunction with UFPAA, will develop a program and implementation timetable for the provision of
training courses, testing programs and adoption of certification requirements and licensing criteria which
incorporate IAS- and ISA-based concepts.
Bankruptcy Reform
59.   Bankruptcy law lies at the foundation of a market economy and, in the area of business activity,
has come to serve three principal functions: an exit mechanism for failed enterprises, terninating the
non-productive use of business assets (liquidation); a mechanism for rehabilitating enterprises which,
although at risk of failure, are worth more as a going concern than liquidated, and have the potential to
recover where such rehabilitation involves or requires financial restructuring (reorganization); and as a
final debt collection mechanism for creditors.
60.   As Ukraine moves forward with the transition to a market economy, procedures for restructuring
and liquidation will come to play an increasingly important role. The system of bankruptcy in Ukraine is
starting from a low base. Immediate attention is needed if it is to come to fulfill the demands that are
being made of it at this time and will be made of it in the coming years.
61.   The bankruptcy process in Ukraine is governed, generally, by one of the earlier pieces of
economic legislation adopted after independence, the Law of Ukraine "On Bankruptcy" enacted on May
14, 1992. The Law has been amended several times, most recently on March 14, 1995, and governs the
liquidation and "sanation" of insolvent legal entities. "Sanation" is a sub-set of reorganization-type
procedures, directed at fmding a party to assume all of a debtor's debts. In its current form, the
"Sanation" procedures are an inefficient and cumbersome mechanism to achieve the financial
restructuring of a financially distressed enterprise. Although containing an outline of the principal
provisions one would expect to find in a bankruptcy law, the existing Ukraine Law is brief, vague and
contains conflicts both internally and with other legislation.
62.   Although the use of bankruptcy proceedings is increasing, for a country of Ukraine's size, with
the large number of enterprises experiencing economic distress, the number of proceedings is still
comparatively small and few successful "sanations" have occurred. Additionally, the Law has been used
predominantly for the liquidation of small, undercapitalized companies in the private sector and rarely in
the public sector. The most frequent use of the Law is by the State taxing authorities as a debt collection
device, rather than for bankruptcy's more appropriate role as the start of a collective procedure for the
benefit of all creditors.
63.   Inadequate Legal Framework  Among the many reasons that the current legal framework is
inadequate to accommodate the efficient implementation of bankruptcy proceedings are the following:
* Existence of a patchwork of frequently changing and often inconsistent laws,
regulations and decrees related to bankruptcy issues; additionally, different
governmental agencies have overlapping and often conflicting authority in the
16



bankruptcy field, as well as different opinions on how to proceed, causing endless
delays and backlogs in the system. In addition to the Courts of Arbitration, which
have jurisdiction over bankruptcy cases, examples of other governmental agencies
involved in the process include: the State Property Fund; the Agency to Prevent
Bankruptcy; the State Tax Inspectorate and the Anti-Monopoly Committee;
*  Restructuring mechanisms in the existing Law are weak and cumbersome; and
* A set of confusing and overlapping procedures govern the duties and/or
responsibilities of the various participants in the bankruptcy process, with the case
overseen by the court, managed by the trustee and then the liquidation commission
with supervision by the creditors, their committee and, in the case of state-owned
enterprises, certain government or municipal bodies and employees.
64.   Lack of Implementation Capacity.  The Courts have been greatly overburdened with the
implementation of the bankruptcy law and lack the necessary infrastructure to assist them with the task.
This burden could be at least partially alleviated by the development and more extensive use of
supporting professions, such as bankruptcy trustees and liquidators, as well as the development of the
professions of accounting, investment banking, appraisers, auctioneers and lawyers knowledgeable about
the bankruptcy process.
65.   Lack of Incentives. At present, there are few incentives and many disincentives for using the
bankruptcy system. For example:
*  Initiation of bankruptcy proceedings is too expensive and time-consuming; e.g.,
before a debtor can initiate a bankruptcy case, it must obtain audited financial
statements, a process which is expensive and cumbersome; a creditor's need to pay a
filing fee of 5% of the face value of its debt in order to obtain a judgment and the
subsequent long procedure required before it can obtain "certified" documents in
order to be eligible to file a bankruptcy petition, are significant disincentives to
creditors to utilize the bankruptcy system;
* The banks' better hope of avoiding loan losses is through government support, and
fear of regulatory problems has been assuaged by soft application of capital
adequacy requirements (although full loan loss provisioning will be a condition of
the proposed FSAL program); and
*  The prospect of any recovery is very uncertain; the procedures tend to take very
long, especially asset sales; as a consequence, the liquidation commission often stops
working once it has realized that inflation has eroded asset values.
Government's Bankruptcy Reform Program
66.   Many of the problems of the bankruptcy system might be solved by the enactment of a new
bankruptcy law. The proposed bankruptcy law pending before the Parliament, if enacted, would go some
way to solving these problems but not all the way. Given the current difficulties in the Ukrainian
legislative process, the passing of an appropriate new bankruptcy law will take significant additional
17



work and is probably not imminent. An interim solution, which is being supported by the EDAL II
program, is the preparation and dissemination, by the Presidium of the Highest Arbitration Court of
Ukraine, of extensive written explanations on the existing Law.  The most extensive of those
Explanations was issued by the Presidium, in draft, in April, 1997 (the "Draft Explanations"). These
Draft Explanations recognized that at this early stage in the use of bankruptcy laws in Ukraine, the full
complement of supporting legislation is not yet in place or harmonized and that written explanations are
needed to fill in gaps in the existing law and to deal with the conflicts within it and with other Ukrainian
legislation.
67.   In addition to having prepared the Draft Explanations, representatives of the Highest Arbitration
Court held conferences in March, April, May and September, 1997 (with donor technical and financial
support), at which times they discussed the Draft Explanations and solicited and received written
comments from the many different Ukrainian constituencies involved in the development and
implementation of the bankruptcy system, such as, by way of example only, the Ukrainian Bankers
Association, the National Bank of Ukraine, the State Property Fund, the tax authorities, the relevant
Ministries, the law schools, legal practitioners, sitting bankruptcy judges throughout Ukraine, and donor-
sponsored consultants.
68.   These Explanations were finalized and formally issued in November, 1997. This was an
important pre-Board action of the EDAL II bankruptcy component.
69.   In addition to extensive written comments on the Draft Explanations in July, 1997, donor
consultants delivered a comprehensive new draft bankruptcy law (the "New Draft Law") to the
bankruptcy working group formed to implement the bankruptcy reform component of EDAL II which
draws heavily on existing Ukrainian legislation and legal practice. References are made at the end of
each section of the New Draft Law to the law's Ukrainian sources. Wherever possible, the New Draft
Law incorporates the Explanations. The New Draft Law, together with the final Presidium Explanations,
could form the basis for amending the existing Law.
70.   Another recent development was the enactment, on June 5, 1997, of the law "On Write-Offs and
Restructuring of Taxpayers' Liabilities as of March 31,1997." Among other things, this law permits the
restructuring of an enterprise's tax arrears (including pension fund liabilities) over a 10-year period (with
payments on this restructured debt being due monthly beginning in January, 1998) and permits the write-
off of certain historic tax liabilities incurred before June 30, 1994 (i.e., tax and pension arrears
accumulated during the early transition period), as well as the write-off of interest and penalties incurred
through March 31, 1997. If the restructured tax debt remains unpaid for 3 months, the taxing authority is
required to commence bankruptcy proceedings against the delinquent enterprise. This new law, which
permits real debt forgiveness as well as realistic debt rescheduling on the part of state budget creditors,
should facilitate the financial restructuring of enterprises under the existing bankruptcy law and, if
enforced, work towards improving financial discipline.
71.   The excessive special powers of collection provided to state budget creditors, however, including
the right to sequester assets and cash held at an enterprise's bank, still need to be reviewed and revised so
that the state, as creditor, is not permitted to act in a manner detrimental to the normal business
operations of debtor enterprises or in a manner which is potentially harmful to other creditors. Actions
by state budget creditors should also be governed by the "rule of law," including requirements for notice
of a proposed collection action to all interested parties and an opportunity for those parties to respond in
18



a court of law. In such a way, both the debtor enterprise and other creditors of the debtor will be able to
determine whether the commencement of a bankruptcy proceeding, leading to either a financial
restructuring or to liquidation, may be a more appropriate route to ensure fairness to all parties. One of
the important roles of bankruptcy law in a market economy is as a collective procedure for debt
collection for the benefit of all creditors. If, as now appears to be the case, state budget creditors are
permitted to seize and/or control all of a debtor's assets without adequate notice to the debtor or to other
creditors, there is little or no opportunity for the parties to avail themselves of the bankruptcy law's
protections and intended function. As a consequence, one of the elements of the proposed bankruptcy
reform program is to clarify and resolve the conflicting rules relating to the excessive special powers of
collection provided to state budget creditors in order to insure the proper functioning of the bankruptcy
laws.
72.    Another important element of the bankruptcy program to be supported by EDAL II is the work to
be performed to support and encourage the development of the profession of bankruptcy trustees and
liquidators to assist the courts in the implementation of the Law. This aspect of the program will include
the preparation and enactment of professional criteria and requirements for licensing of bankruptcy
trustees and liquidators, the creation of a trustee/liquidator SRO; and the development of an ongoing
education program to support these professionals.
73.    The bankruptcy program to be supported by EDAL II will be implemented by the Ministry of
Economy in conjunction with the Highest Court of Arbitration through the newly formed Inter-Agency
Committee for Bankruptcy Reform, which includes representatives of all interested Ukrainian and donor
parties. The summary bankruptcy action plan consists of eight main points: (i) improving existing court
procedures to facilitate restructuring of financially viable enterprises, or parts thereof, and the liquidation
of non-viable enterprises; (ii) the clarification and streamlining of procedures for initiating bankruptcy
proceedings and for ensuring notice to all creditors at the time of initial filing of the bankruptcy petition;
(iii) the clarification of mechanisms to permit writing off and writing down debt, to allow creditors to
accept less than 100% of debt recovery; (iv) the clarification of mechanisms under existing law which
would provide for a court-enforced moratorium on payments to creditors for pre-petition debts and a stay
or cessation of all creditor proceedings against the debtor and its assets as soon as a petition is filed; (v)
the clarification and resolution of the conflicting rules relating to the excessive special powers of
collection provided to state budget creditors and the proper functioning of the bankruptcy laws; (vi) the
development of training programs, professional standards, payment mechanisms and a self-regulatory
organization for bankruptcy trustees and liquidators; and (vii) following the reform of the bankruptcy
procedures described above, the initiation of court-led bankruptcy law proceedings for four post-
privatized former state-owned enterprises; two as liquidations and two as restructurings, initiated by
either private or public sector creditors, with the aim of identifying additional problems remaining in the
bankruptcy system for further reform.
19



Deregulation
The Needfor Deregulation
74.   Due to excessive government control and regulation of the economy, Ukraine has a high cost,
uncertain business environment that is preventing its private sector from growing and competing
domestically and internationally. Business environment cost and uncertainty is discouraging the
establishment of new businesses, the expansion of existing businesses, and foreign investment. If
entrepreneurs in privatized and new private enterprises are to lead Ukraine's economic recovery, they
require the incentives and flexibility to pursue profitable opportunities within a reliable structure of law
that permits fair competition and efficient resolution of disputes. Yet throughout their short and recent
history, Ukrainian private enterprises have suffered from complex, costly, unclear and inconsistent
regulations; as well as invasive and arbitrary regulatory enforcement.
75.   Recent analysis suggests that Ukrainian firms are severely hampered by excessive regulation and
taxation of their formal activities. Proprietors and managers spend almost 30% of their time simply
dealing with requirements imposed by the government, such as filling out myriad forms and negotiating
with numerous officials at different levels of government. This is about three times as high as countries
with well functioning tax and regulatory administration. It is not surprising that many businesses engage
in substantial informal activity or under-reporting to avoid a portion of this burden, while others operate
completely unofficially. Furthermore, harsh, unclear and inconsistent laws combined with weak
administrative discipline give bureaucrats substantial discretion. Heavy state controls, unclear rules and
bureaucratic discretion result in similar firms being treated differently, based on their willingness and
ability to negotiate. Furthermore, its costs fall disproportionately on small firms, deterring new firms
from starting up and informal firms from joining the official economy.
76.   The complex web of regulation in the form rules, forms, inspections and other procedures
divides into several key areas, including:
* tax administration,
* business registration and start-up procedures;
- business licensing;
* customs and trade regulation;
* regulation of financial transactions;
* regulations on property;
* business inspections procedures (by multiple agencies of government).
This complex set of issues is proposed to be addressed in a number of forthcoming Bank loans including
the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), the Public Administration Reform Loan
(PARL) and the Public Resource Management Loan (PRML). Meanwhile, since initial action on
deregulation cannot wait until all these loans are processed, it has been agreed with the Government that
some of the most urgent measures needed to launch the deregulation process, most of which are included
as pre-appraisal actions in the proposed PARL deregulation program, will be included also in the EDAL
II program.
20



Recent Government Initiatives
77.   The Government's December, 1996 legislative reform package went far in addressing some of
the constraints, including proposals to simplify business registration; reduce dramatically the number of
activities subject to licensing, expand and secure private property rights, remove restrictive financial
regulations, simplify and reduce payroll taxes, improve customs and import quality certification
administration, and remove restrictions on employee residence. However, the "package" has made little
progress in Parliament.
78.   As part of its April 11, 1997 anti-corruption package of proposals, the Ministry of Justice also
proposed certain regulatory reforms, including a national registry of laws and legal acts, a reduction in
the numbers of licenses and permits issued by government Ministries, and closer scrutiny of tax and
customs administration. At the same time, the anti-corruption program contained an element of stricter
business regulation, to check all businesses on the legitimacy of their activities in conjunction with
current legislation (a challenging task, given the complexity and internal contradictions of existing laws
and regulations).
79.   In addition, as part of its new focus on small business, the Ministry of Economy is initiating a
"program of small-scale business development in 1997-98," designed to "turn the small business sector
into a leading branch" of the Ukrainian economy. This includes new laws on state support of small-scale
entrepreneurship, on private property, on leasing, on licensing, and on credit unions; and amendments to
laws on entrepreneurship, on enterprises in Ukraine, on Property,' and on economic societies. It also
provides for the launching of a Congress on Entrepreneurship to discuss problems confronted by
entrepreneurs.
80.   An Expert Council on Deregulation has been created under the Vice-Prime Minister for
Economic Reform. A State Committee for Entrepreneurship has been created and given a mandate by
Presidential decree for deregulation and other measures for creating a more friendly business
environment.  These two entities have prepared and adopted a draft Government strategy for
deregulation. The Parliament recently approved and the President enacted changes to the Law on
Entrepreneurship, which lowers from more than 100 to 41 the number of licenses required for different
enterprise activities.
81.   Finally, the President has recently created an Advisory Board on Foreign Investments in Ukraine
of which he is the Chairman. Major goals of the Board are as follows:
*   an analysis of the problems blocking the process of foreign investment inflow into the
country;
*   preparation of proposals aimed at streamlining forms and methods of economy
management;
*   development of attractive image of Ukraine among potential foreign investors.
82.   In spite of these efforts, the Government lacks any way to systematically review laws and
regulations to determine their consistency with government or parliamentary intent, their effect on
private business development, or their relative costs and benefits.
21



The EDAL II Deregulation Program
83.   The following high priority actions have been agreed with Government for inclusion in the
EDAL II program. These actions will also pave the way for further reforms under the proposed PARL:
* Deregulation Strategy. The Government has formally adopted the deregulation
strategy developed by the Expert Council on Deregulation and the State Committee
for Entrepreneurship.
*  Business Licensing. Legislation has already been approved by Parliament that
reduces the number of business activities subject to licensing from 101 to 41. The
Government has completed its analysis of licensing problems and will take action to
solve any licensing problems that it has the power to deal with. Analysis will also be
completed on the problems relating to obtaining permits other than licenses and
measures will be prepared to deal with them. For those licenses that will remain in
place, measures to simplify and accelerate them will be prepared. Institutional
mechanisms will be prepared that will automatically screen and limit any new
proposals to extend licensing to new activities.
84.   Business Registration. Legislation has already been drafted to simplify documentation and
permissions required for business registration and start-up and to make it a ten-day, one-stop process.
Detailed implementation proposals for this legislation have already been prepared.
85.   Business Inspections. Under EDAL II, analytical work will be completed on the complex web of
inspection procedures at the central and local levels. Comprehensive measures will be proposed that will
eliminate unnecessary inspections and standardize inspections that will remain. These measures will
include the enforcement of uniform standards for inspections in terns of frequency, transparency,
accountability, due cause for seizures, and appeals process.
86.   Institutionalization of Deregulation. Institutional mechanisms will be created for continuing the
process of deregulation and subjecting any new regulations to consistent critical review. A consultative
process with the private sector will also be established and will be made fully functional on a permanent
basis. The public/private consultative group will regularly submit recommendations to the Cabinet for
action on high priority deregulation issues.
22



IV. DONOR COORDINATION
General
87.   Over the two to three years leading up to the initiation of the first EDAL, there was a very close
dialogue between the Bank and the donors supporting privatization and capital markets reform in
Ukraine. It was marked by a series of donor meetings in Washington, London and Kiev and, in
February, 1994, by the signature of a joint Memorandum of Understanding by the major donors and the
Government on the future direction of the mass privatization program and on the extemal support that
could be provided for it. Bi-weekly meetings are held in Kiev to discuss privatization and capital markets
reform issues. These meetings are attended by the major donors and by their contractors and sometimes
by key Ukrainian counterparts. There have been a number of joint donor initiatives to approach the
Government on critical privatization and capital markets issues over the implementation period of the
first EDAL. This combined action has proven extremely effective in bringing about necessary policy
changes. It has continued during the preparation of EDAL II and it will continue as required over the
EDAL II implementation period.
88.   The combination of policy analysis and conditionality from the Bank and the IMF with grant
financed technical assistance from other donors has worked particularly well in the Ukrainian context.
The Program supported by this loan has therefore been designed in full cooperation with the other major
donors, in particular the IMF, USAID and EU/TACIS, and has their full support. The latter two donors
will continue to provide most of the technical assistance necessary to complete the mass privatization
program, to move on to case by case privatization, to continue capital markets reforms, to work on
accounting reform, bankruptcy reform  and deregulation and to promote the post-privatization
restructuring and growth that will be the major objectives and benefits of the program. They are
depending on the Bank and have asked the Bank to maintain, through EDAL II, the leverage of
conditionality that has achieved policy reforms that their TA alone could not have brought about.
Conversely, the detailed work carried out by donor financed TA personnel has done much to enhance the
design of the reform program to be supported by EDAL II. Inter-agency working groups, including
donor representatives, were created to prepare each component of the EDAL II program and they will
continue to monitor implementation progress during the program period.
89.   The long standing productive cooperation between the Bank and IFC will be maintained. IFC
intends to continue its support for privatization implementation throughout the EDAL II period.
EUITACIS
90.   The conditions for disbursement of the EU's ECU 200 million program loan to Ukraine were
closely linked to the implementation of the policy conditionality of the first EDAL. EU/TACIS has been
actively supporting the privatization process in Ukraine since independence. Early support was for the
SPF and for pilot privatization transactions. Since 1994, the programs have focused more on mass
privatization and on the development of the capital markets. EU/TACIS consultants have helped with the
implementation of the privatization auction process in several oblasts and also with the institutional
strengthening of new investment funds. EU/TACIS completed an organizational review of the SPF
during 1997 and made recommendations for streamlining its structure.  EU/TACIS were also
instrumental in creating the capacity of the Ukrainian Center for Post-Privatization Support (UCPPS),
23



which is the main implementing agency for the first EDAL's TA component. As mass privatization
moves to completion, EU/TACIS operational support has begun for case-by-case privatization through
the SPF and also for further post-privatization assistance programs similar to the one implemented by the
UCPPS. Work has been done by EU/TACIS on the methodology for divestment of social assets by
enterprises and support is also planned for improving the bankruptcy process.
USAID
91.   USAID has financed major costs associated with the mass privatization program, including
printing and distribution of the privatization certificates, the operational costs of the enterprise auction
centers and the public information campaign for privatization in the national and local media. USAID
was also the major source of finance for IFC's support to the small scale privatization process in several
cities throughout Ukraine and will continue to finance IFC's forthcoming program of help in the
privatization of unfinished construction. Other USAID initiatives include support for the development of
private investment funds and for the creation of a self-regulatory organizations for market intermediaries,
creation and running of a capital markets monitoring unit, support for US SEC staff from Washington
and other securities markets professionals to advise the Government on creating new capital markets
legislation and supervisory bodies, and support for creating a share registry and a clearing and settlement
organization. The Bank has provided high level advisors on privatization directly to the Chairman of the
SPF and financing for these advisors has now been taken over by USAID. USAID has also provided
consulting and other support to the creation of the Ukrainian Federation of Professional Accountants and
Auditors. USAID has provided legal expertise in drafting a proposed new bankruptcy law and in
drafting the explanations recently adopted by the Presidium of the Highest Arbitration Court in
streamlining the bankruptcy process. USAID has also provided help to the Government in identifying a
strategy for deregulation.
Other Donors
92.   The Bank and many donors, including EU/TACIS and USAID have provided city and enterprise
level support for privatization and private sector development programs. The EDAL's TA component
will provide support for professional associations and self-regulatory organizations in the capital
markets. IFC has been particularly active in promoting small scale enterprise privatization at city level
and also some large scale pilot privatization transactions, support to mass privatization in some oblasts,
land privatization and post-privatization support, and intends to work during the coming year on
privatization of unfinished construction. The EBRD was active early in supporting the SPF and is
beginning to replicate in Ukraine the Regional Venture Fund concept that been a vehicle for direct EBRD
equity investments in newly privatized enterprises in several Russian cities. Bi-lateral donors such as
Switzerland, Netherlands, UK Know-How Fund and Japan have also been active in supporting the
privatization process in Ukraine and the UK Know-how Fund has worked on training of accountants. A
Japanese technical assistance grant and a grant from the Irish Government, both managed by the Bank,
helped in the preparation of the first EDAL. EDAL II has been prepared in close cooperation with the
IMF and many of the actions proposed under EDAL II are also included in the IMF's Standby program.
24



V. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement
93.   This project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Ukraine (CAS)
discussed by the Executives Directors on June 1996, and the CAS Progress Report being presented
together with this operation which puts the promotion of private sector development, including
accelerating the shift to private ownership, as a top priority. The proposed loan will provide a significant
portion of the external balance of payments support necessary to maintain the Ukrainian economy during
the economic transition period while at the same time, supporting through policy conditionality, reforms
critical to the success of this transition. It will continue the balance of payments support initiated by the
IMF in its Standby Arrangements and Systemic Transformation Facility and the Bank through its
Rehabilitation Loan and existing and proposed sector adjustment loans. The Loan design has followed
the successful formula, demonstrated clearly in the Ukrainian context, of focused Bank-financed policy
conditionality working alongside the IMF program and grant financed technical assistance from other
donors.
Loan Objectives and Description
94.   The main objectives of the proposed EDAL II will be to continue the support for the
Government's privatization and capital markets development programs begun under the first EDAL and
the more recently initiated accounting, bankruptcy reform and deregulation programs. It is intended,
through policy conditionality and donor financed technical assistance, to complete the economic
transformation of the enterprise sector from a primarily state owned to a primarily private ownership
structure, to realize the necessary enterprise governance improvements and accelerate the restructuring
and enhance the efficiency of the enterprise sector following privatization. It will therefore complement
the reforms supported by the Bank's other existing and proposed sector adjustment loans.
95.   Given the urgent need for balance of payments support, the loan, consisting of three equal
tranches of US$100 million each, is expected to disburse quickly and the completion date will therefore
be December 31, 1999. The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed in three tranches upon evidence that
the agreed adjustment measures have been satisfactorily implemented. Non-eligible imports would
comprise only those goods on the World Bank's standard negative list. As agreed with the Government,
disbursements will be made through the NBU and an account of the Ministry of Finance at the NBU will
be credited with the Hrivnya equivalent at the market exchange rate as determined on the interbank
exchange market. The foreign exchange receipts of the loan will be sold by the NBU in the interbank
exchange market or will be held in reserve in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy. The
Government will therefore receive non-inflationary budget support.
Project Implementation and Key Measures for Disbursement
96.   Implementation of the policy reforms began during early 1997, as the third tranche conditions of
the first EDAL began to be met, and has continued throughout 1997. The first tranche will be disbursed
based on satisfactory implementation of the pre-Board action program described below. The Ministry of
Economy is the coordinating agency for the action program but the reforms will be implemented by a
number of agencies including the State Property Fund, the Securities and Stock Markets Commission,
25



the Ministry of Finance, the Highest Arbitration Court of Ukraine, and the State Committee for
Entrepreneurship.
The following measures have been completed and constituted the pre-Board action program and
conditions for release of the first tranche of the proposed loan:
(a) Privatization
(i)    the SPF has completed the privatization of more than least 7,500 medium/large
enterprises (i.e., transfer of at least 70 percent of the shares of each enterprise to
private hands) since January 1, 1995;
(ii)   an order demonopolizing the grain marketing conglomerate Khlib was issued,
share sales of more than 150 grain marketing and distribution enterprises have
begun;
(iii)   at least 70 percent of the shares of each of more than 40 grain marketing and
distribution enterprises have been transferred to private hands;
(iv)   a list of all large enterprises to be included in the privatization and a schedule for
their privatization have been prepared;
(v)    at least 40 percent of the shares of each of 50 large enterprises have been
transferred to private hands;
(vi)   100 percent of the shares in each of more than 3,750 medium/large enterprises
have been transferred to private hands since January 1, 1995;
(vii)  regulations for transparent procedures for issuing tenders and selecting advisors
for case-by-case privatization transactions have been drafted;
(viii)  ten major case-by-case privatization transactions have been initiated, providing
for eventual privatization of at least 51 percent of the shares in each enterprise to
strategic investors;
(ix)   there has been and will be no reversal of the favorable environment for small
scale enterprise privatization in Ukraine throughout the loan period;
(x)    more than 1,500 unfinished construction sites have been transferred to private
hands; and
(xi)  lists of all privatized medium and large enterprises have been made publicly
available and this will continue throughout the period of the loan.
26



(b) Capital Markets
(i)  during the pre-Board period and throughout the period of the Loan, the
Government will refrain from empowering any institutions other than the
Securities and Stock Markets Commission to regulate securities markets;
(ii)  the Securities Commission and the National Bank of Ukraine have reached
agreement confirming the Securities Commission as the primary regulator of
banks' activities in securities markets;
(iii) membership in self-regulatory organizations is now required for all professional
capital markets participants;
(iv) the Securities Commission has approved a regulation requiring reporting to the
Commission of all transactions for blocks of shares greater than 10 percent of an
enterprise's share capital and public announcement by the Commission of the
details of the transaction;
(v)  the Law on the National Depository System has already been approved by
Parliament and one depository has already been licensed;
(vi) the Securities Commission completed an analysis of the taxation of securities and
issued an interpretation to the tax authorities for equal tax treatment of the stock
exchanges and over the counter securities markets; and
(vii) throughout the Loan period, the Government has not and will not create unequal
conditions for market participants and will not own controlling or blocking
interests in commercially viable capital markets institutions.
(c) Accounting Reform
(i)  the Government has established an Accounting Standards Board, which has met
and decided on its operational procedures and agenda;
(ii) the Securities Commission has amended annual reporting formats for issuers to
follow IAS;
(iii) pilot issuers have been selected to adopt disclosure requirements in compliance
with IAS;
(iv) the Chamber of Auditors, in cooperation with the Securities Commission and all
significant accounting associations has provided a timetable for the implementation
of ISA; and
(v) the Ministry of Education and a leading University have developed accounting
curnicula to provide training in IAS and ISA at the undergraduate and graduate
27



levels, and the Ukrainian Federation of Accountants and Auditors has already
conducted training of accountants incorporating IAS concepts.
(d) Bankruptcy Reform
(i)  the Highest Arbitration Court has issued "Explanations" of the existing Bankruptcy
Law which will give practical legal effect to all the elements included in the EDAL
II bankruptcy reform program;
(ii) the "Explanations" are being and will be implemented throughout the period of
EDAL II;
(iii) special powers of state budget creditors have been identified and a plan prepared
to remove those that do not conform with international practice;
(iv) a professional working group has been established and this group has prepared
draft professional criteria for licensing bankruptcy professionals; and
(v)  draft procedures clarifying compensation rules for bankruptcy professionals have
been prepared.
(e) Deregulation
(i)  the Government has adopted a deregulation strategy;
(ii) an analysis of business licensing problems has been completed, identifying
problems that are within Government's authority to solve;
(iii) a detailed proposal to make business registration a ten-day, one-stop process has
been prepared; and
(iv) the Committee on Entrepreneurship has developed criteria to review the impact of
all new and existing legislation for its impact on private sector development.
The following measures will be implemented prior to release of the second tranche:
(a) Privatization
(i)  at least 70 percent of the shares of at least 8,500 medium/large enterprises will
have been transferred to private hands since January 1, 1995;
(ii)  share sales of at least 300 grain marketing enterprises will have begun;
(iii) at least 70 percent of the shares of at least 60 grain marketing and distribution
enterprises will have been transferred to private hands;
28



(iv) at least 40 percent of the shares in at least 60 large enterprises will have been
transferred to private hands;
(v)  100 percent of the shares in at least 4,250 medium/large enterprises will have been
transferred to private hands since January 1, 1995;
(vi) documents and IPO distribution channels for three case by case privatization
transactions will have been finalized;
(vii) 2,500 unfinished construction sites will have been transferred to private hands;
and
(viii) a full set of regulations for transparent procedures for case-by-case privatization
transactions will have been approved.
(b) Capital Markets
(i)  shareholder lists for all privatized enterprises will be consolidated and made
available to the public;
(ii)  the Securities Commission and the National Bank will have adopted rules for the
organization of capital markets activities within commercial banks;
(iii) all securities markets trading systems will have been either licensed or closed;
(iv) regulations meeting EU standards for depositories, custodians, and clearance and
settlement will have been issued;
(v)  all privatization IPOs will use dematerialized shares placed in a depository and
sold through regulated trading systems;
(vi) changes to the taxation structure for securities will be submitted to Parliament; and
(vii) stock exchanges and over the counter markets will be treated equally for tax
purposes.
(c) Accounting Reform
(i)  A timetable for adopting a National Accounting System in compliance with IAS
will be prepared;
(ii)  instructions for annual reporting according to IAS will be disseminated to issuers
by the Securities Commission; and
(iii) the Chamber of Auditors in  conjunction  with  all significant accounting
associations will prepare a program and timetable for staffing, testing and
certification to increase professional capacity in the use of NAS and NSA.
29



(d) Deregulation
(i)  a plan to take all deregulation measures that are within Government's power to
implement will have been adopted;
(ii)  proposals for simplifying obtaining permits other than licenses will have been
prepared;
(iii) draft measures to simplify licensing procedures remaining in place will have been
prepared;
(iv) analysis of problems relating to inspection procedures will have been completed;
and
(v)  institutional arrangements to continuously review legislation and also to consult
formally with the private sector will be fully operational.
The following measures will be implemented prior to release of the third tranche:
(a) Privatization
(i)  At least 70 percent of the shares in at least 9,500 medium/large enterprises will
have been transferred to private hands since January 1, 1995;
(ii)  share sales of at least 450 grain marketing and distribution enterprises will have
begun;
(iii) 70 percent of the shares in at least 100 grain marketing and distribution enterprises
will have been transferred to private hands;
(iv) 40 percent of the shares in at least 100 large enterprises will have been transferred
to private hands;
(v)  100 percent of the shares in at least 4,750 medium/large enterprises will have been
transferred to private hands;
(vi) three case by case privatization transactions will have been brought to the stage of
final negotiations with investors, three prospectuses will have been registered with
the Securities Commission and a further 10 case by case privatization transactions
will have been initiated; and
(vii) 3,600 unfinished construction sites will have been transferred to private hands.
30



(b) Capital Markets
(i)  The Securities Commission will have started to impose sanctions on enterprises
which have not transferred their share registries to independent registrars as
required;
(ii) banks will have organized their capital markets activities in organizationally and
financially separate internal departments or subsidiaries;
(iii) all broker dealers and registrars will have either become members of a SRO or will
have had their licenses revoked;
(iv) SROs will have been delegated full responsibility for issuing rules of conduct and
out-of-court arbitration between investors and their members;
(v) EU standards will be applied for disclosure of information on all new share
offerings; and
(vi) a depository system, clearance and settlement system and settlement payment
system (with NBU participation) for all regulated trading systems will become
operational.
(c) Accounting Reform
(i) An accounting education program incorporating IAS and ISA in at least one
graduate level institution will be underway; and
(d) Deregulation
(i) principles and procedures for reducing problems and abuses with inspections will
have been specified and a plan prepared for dealing with these problems at the
central and local levels.
(ii) regulations to simplify the licensing procedures remaining in place will have been
enacted.
Loan Administration, Procurement, Disbursement, Reporting and Auditing
97.   Administration of the adjustment component will be the responsibility of the EDAL II
Monitoring Unit (MU) located in the Ministry of Economy which reports through the Chief of the
Division for Collaboration with International Financial Institutions in the Cabinet of Ministers to the
Deputy Prime Minister for Economics. The MU's main responsibility will be to monitor implementation
of the Loan program and provide progress reports to the Government and the Bank every three months
after Board approval. The progress reports will contain an evaluation of the progress made on the policy
reform program and will indicate progress made towards fulfilling tranche release conditions. These
31



reports will be sent to the Bank every three months in English. The MU will also prepare Ukraine's
contribution to the Project Completion Report within six months of the closing date.
98.   In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the Simplification of
Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans, the proposed EDAL II
proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including
compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions and achievement of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases: hence, evidence will not be
needed to support disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be needed. The standard negative
list will be applied.
99.   Once the Loan is approved by the Board, the Borrower will be required to open and maintain a
Deposit Account in its central bank. As each tranche is released, the Borrower will submit a simplified
withdrawal application, against which the Bank will disburse the Loan proceeds into the Deposit
Account for Borrower's use. If any portion of the Loan is used for ineligible purposes as defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Bank requires the Borrower to either (a) return that amount the Deposit Account
for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will
cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Loan.
100.  The project manager will be located in the Ministry of Finance and will be responsible for
submitting to the Bank the simplified Application for Withdrawal formn upon receiving clearance from
the MU and the Bank that all conditions have been met for a tranche release, and the Project Manager
will maintain the project accounts. Although the Bank will not routinely require an audit of the use of
Loan proceeds, it reserves the right to do so.
Project Sustainability
101.  The main objectives of the Loan are to bring to completion the primary stages of transformation
in the ownership structure and management of Ukrainian enterprises, to accelerate the development of
the private sector through deregulation measures, to create capital markets infrastructure that will serve
Ukraine indefinitely in the future, to promote the use of International Accounting Standards which will
improve enterprise accountability and financial discipline and to create a modern bankruptcy process
which will promote further restructuring of the enterprise sector. By definition these objectives are to
bring about sustainable change.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
102.  The experiences of the Rehabilitation Loan and the first EDAL have shown that well designed
policy conditionality in the area of privatization and capital markets reform can bring about dramatic
reforms that were previously unobtainable. The experience of the first EDAL has also shown that the
weak implementation capacity that has held up the implementation of other projects does not have to be
a major constraint, if the program is designed, as is the EDAL II program, to minimize the burden on
existing institutions and to work in close coordination with grant financed technical assistance from other
donors. Very close cooperation has been and will continue to be maintained with the other donors during
loan preparation and execution. The major donors have participated, along with Government, in the
design of the project and have expressed their strong support for it. Experience under the first EDAL as
32



well as experience gained during the preparation of this loan have also shown that project preparation is
a valuable opportunity to deliver hands on assistance to Government authorities in defining and dealing
with operational issues in both design and implementation. Experience has also shown that Ukraine does
not wish to borrow large amounts for TA and is able to mobilize substantial grant funds for this purpose.
The TA component of the first EDAL will continue disbursing through the end of 1998. For these
reasons, we are not proposing any additional Bank-financed TA to work along with this loan although we
shall continue to mobilize donor financed grants where appropriate.
Environmental Aspects
103.  The loan will have no direct environmental impact. Therefore, the project has been classified as
a Category "C" project.
Program Objective Categories
104.  The proposed project supports the Bank's program objectives of development of a policy
framework conducive to fiscal and macroeconomic stability, and to private sector development.
Benefits and Risks
105.  Benefits. The continued implementation under EDAL II of the reform program initiated under
the first EDAL would end the dominance of the state enterprise sector in Ukraine and help create a
dynamic private enterprise sector. It would pave the way for the informal sector to move into the
economic mainstream and move Ukraine substantially through the transition to a market economy. It
would consolidate the basis for well-functioning capital markets and create a critical mass of private
enterprises that will be a main driving force for economic recovery. The implementation of International
Accounting Standards and a modem bankruptcy process in Ukraine would further promote enterprise
accountability and restructuring and, along with the proposed deregulation measures, would also improve
the climate for private investment, domestic and foreign. Given Ukraine's human and physical potential
the economic benefits to be obtained from these reforms will be enormous. The Loan would also
provide critical balance of payments support to finance imports needed for economic recovery. The
channeling of the Loan funds would support the foreign exchange markets in Ukraine.
106.  Risks. The successful implementation of the first EDAL showed that its benefits justified taking
the risks. However, the same risks will apply to EDAL II. The most important risk is the possibility of
loss of policy commitment due to lack of consensus and possible growing opposition among key
constituencies. This opposition was evident throughout the period of the first EDAL but the Government
was able to overcome it. The next stages of privatization and restructuring of the enterprise sector are
already involving some of Ukraine's largest state enterprises. Powerful interests are being challenged.
The changes, although necessary and very urgent, could be painful to certain sections of the population,
particularly in those areas where large enterprise closures could occur. The risk of policy reversal will be
higher if lost employment opportunities are not quickly replaced by new ones. The relationship between
Parliament and Government is no easier than it was at the beginning of the first EDAL program and
sections of Parliament continue to declare themselves openly hostile to privatization and market reforms
in general. The most important factor mitigating the risk of loss of political commitment is the
likelihood, based on the experience of other countries as well as Ukraine, that once market reforms have
taken hold and a critical mass of enterprises has passed through the privatization process the reform
33



process will be seen to benefit the population, gather momentum and be difficult to reverse. There is
much evidence that this point has already been reached in Ukraine and that there can be no going back.
107.  Another important risk is that the SPF and other agencies responsible for implementing the
program will not have the capacity to do so. Few countries in history have attempted to implement such
an ambitious program and there is little experience anywhere in completing one successfully. This risk
has been taken into account in the program design by keeping it simple and maximizing bottom up
incentives and initiatives, capitalizing on the dynamics that already exist within the enterprise sector.
The experience of the first EDAL confirned the effectiveness of these principles. The use of external
technical assistance has also been planned to help in key implementation areas and relieve bottlenecks
such as running the auction centers, drafting of laws and procedures, setting up capital markets
institutions and training of accountants and bankruptcy specialists. The experience of the first EDAL
showed that limited implementation capacity did not seriously hold up the program. However there will
be a need for continued massive technical assistance in the areas of privatization and capital markets
reform and also in the new areas of accounting and bankruptcy reform and deregulation.
108.  The third risk is that the benefits of the program may not appear immediately, that economic
recovery may be delayed and that donor and government commitment may start to wane. Bad publicity
received by Ukraine during 1997 from a number of foreign investors and the international media,
combined with recent failures in a number of other areas of economic reform, have already produced
negative reactions from western governments. Reductions in external support would make the inevitable
adjustment process in Ukraine even more painful. This was also an identified risk under the first EDAL
but in the event it did not prove to be a problem. The Bank will attempt to reduce this risk through
continuing the dialogue with Government on the need to improve the climate for private investment and
also through maintaining its donor coordination activities.
109.  A fourth risk is that mass privatization, with its built in bias towards insider and fragmented
ownership, may not bring about the degree of restructuring of enterprises after privatization, necessary
for economic recovery. The evidence so far is limited but it suggests that enterprise restructuring is
taking place after and even before privatization. Secondary trading in enterprise shares is increasing
rapidly, many individuals have preferred to trade their privatization certificates for shares in investment
funds rather than for individual shares, thereby promoting block ownership of shares by these funds; and
anecdotal evidence from the enterprise level shows that there is considerable restructuring taking place in
terms of employment reduction, seeking and finding new markets and adapting product mixes.
However, EDAL II and other planned Bank operations as well as activities of other donors will be
increasingly focusing on improving the post-privatized enterprise environment and governance so that
enterprise restructuring continues.
34



VI. RECOMMENDATION
110.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
February 25, 1998
35



ANNEX 1
Page la of 6
CABINET OF MINISTERS OF UKRAINE
M Hrushevsky St., 12/2, Kyiv-008, Ukraine Tel.: (380 44) 293 5227, Fax (380 44) 293 2093
24 February, 1998                                            No.27-504/9
Translation-from Ukrainian
Paul Siegelbaum
Country Director for Ukraine and Belarus
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Siegelbaum,
Please find enclosed the Memorandum of the policies for enterprise development and the
Memorandum of the financial sector strategy, which highlight our program of
privatization, capital markets reform, accounting, bankruptcy, deregulation, banking
sector reform.
Provisions of the memoranda confirm the continuation of Ukrainian strategy for the
consolidation of a stable macroeconomic environment, as an important prerequisite of the
economic reform program implementation.
We ask the World Bank to support our enterprise and financial sector reform programs
through the allocation of the Second Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan, in the amount of
US $ 300 million and the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, in the amount of US $ 300
million.
Sincerely,
Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine
S. Tigipko
1
36a



24-FEB-98 16:13 FROM: KabminUKR                      ID: 0442933132              PAGE  2
ANNEX 9
Pagelb of 6
KAEIHET MIHICTPIB  JI   CABINET OF MINISTERS
YKPAIHU                   1             OF UKRAINE
M. Hrushevsky St., 12/2, Kyiv 008, Ukraine Tel.: (380 44) 293 5227, Fax (380 441 293 2093
- 24 '     MT0Lro      19 98                 JM  27-504/9
gupeicroponi CBihORoro 6aHICy
no YlKpaiHi ra 6inopyci
perioH (:nponii i CopeIl4dboi A3il
iauHOni IIoJIy Cirehb6ayMy
IaHOBsHHii naHe floi Cirenb6ayny!
,Ao BamoliY yBarm  IoAamOtbc  MeMopaHgy,, rnpo nodirurKy B raly3i
PO3BBUTKY  rianXIpHeMCTB  Ta  MeMopaH,mgym   npo  CTpaTerilo  pO3BWVKY
iiHaHcoBoro ceETopy, rKi BHcBiiTEoloTh Haiy r!porpaMy nptBaTn3aLgil,
pe4opM   pHHKiB  KaniT8JTy,  6yxraA'TepcsKoro  o6Jriky,  6aHKpyTCTBa,
,2eperyxsuaiY,- pe4opMysaHHAr 6aHxiBcmcoro ceKIopy.
HaMipid, sumazAeHi B MeMopaRpyMax, nixmep;,WyimT   npoRomBKeH
xypcy YKpaYHH Ha 3MiLlHeHHl cTa6inJbgoro MaWoeKoJioMiqHoro cepegomiua
qiK Ba)KJwIBOI nepeaylYMoBm  ycnilmHoro BTieICHHus nporpamii eKoHoMiiH4x
pedopM.
MEI 3BepTacMocsi  o CaiToBoro 6aHKy 3 npOXaHHSmM nizATpk1MaTK HaLuy
nporpamy pe4OpM B ranyy3i p03BHTKy nliAr1pBlCMCTB Ta 6a1TxiBcbloro ceKTopy
UIUJXOM  HaAlaHHR  Alpyroi IIO3HKH  Hia  pO.3B1TrK rlilIpHllCMCTB y pO3Mipi
300 MJIH. aouapin CLLIA Ta nio3HxH Ha peC(opMyBaHH5l t)imaHcosoro ceCtopy B
po3mipi 300 MJIH. jionapin CILIA.
3 noBarolo
Biue-upeM'ep-miuiicrp YicpiUf                          C. Til inico
36b



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
UKRAINE: SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Memorandum on Enterprise Sector Development Policy
In late 1994, Ukraine began a radical and far-reaching economic reforn program. A main
component of this program was the promotion of the private sector as the main engine of market led
economic growth. Important elements of this have included: (i) implementing an ambitious program of
privatization of small, medium and large enterprises, (ii) developing the capital markets supervisory
structures and infrastructure that have promoted further ownership change and governance improvements
in the secondary markets as well as mobilized new equity finance for enterprises, and (iii) maintaining a
liberalized trade and pricing environment to ensure that Ukrainian enterprises are subjected to market
forces. The first stage of this program has been very successful. The Cabinet of Ministers (hereafter
referred to as the Government) intends to continue the momentum of these reforms until the enterprise
privatization process is complete and Ukraine has solid, well functioning capital markets. The Government
also intends to extend the program to include second generation enterprise reforms in the areas of
accounting and bankruptcy reform and to promote the development of the newly privatized and new private
enterprises by removing unnecessary restrictions on business activities. These reforms will ensure greater
transparency and accountability in enterprise activities, will ensure easier mechanisms for enterprise exit,
restructuring and reallocation of resources, and will continue moving Ukraine along the path to becoming a
modem market economy. As an essential underpinning to these actions, we intend to maintain a stable
macroeconomic environment conducive to economic growth.
Privatization
Since Presidential Decree No. 699 of November, 1994 radically streamlined the procedures for
mass privatization in Ukraine, the privatization process has gathered speed and public support, and this
momentum continues today. The Government remains committed to continuing enterprise privatization
until it is complete. Measures implemented during 1995 and 1996 to ensure rapid privatization included
granting a full mandate to the SPF to implement the program, reducing the role of branch ministries in the
privatization process, providing for simplified standard enterprise preparation packages to be completed by
each enterprise according to tight deadlines, mandating that book value and most recent inventory should be
taken as the valuation of the enterprise, requiring standard allocation of blocks of shares to the auction
process and providing for a simple bidding system.
A widespread public information program was initiated in early 1995 and continues today. An
auction center network was created throughout Ukraine. Enterprise auctions started in January, 1995 and
the numbers of enterprise shares put up for auction has steadily increased. Fully clearing auctions were
introduced in 1996 using the compensation certificates that were made available to the population to
compensate them for the loss in value of their savings due to inflation since independence. Procedures for
the privatization of agro-industrial enterprises were strearnlined in late 1996 to bring them into line with
those for other enterprises and privatization of the agro-industrial sector has proceeded rapidly on target.
By January 1997, more than 5,000 medium/large enterprises had been transferred at least 70 percent to
private hands since the mass privatization program began in early 1995. Of these enterprises, more than
one half were from the agro-industrial sector.
37



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
During 1997, the Government renewed efforts to speed up mass privatization. We have been
giving increased publicity to the use of compensation certificates, as a means of rapidly clearing the
auctions, ensuring that all shares offered are sold. We also began increasing the numbers of shares made
available at the auctions and began offering shares in very large attractive enterprises. The President of
Ukraine signed into Law the 1997 Privatization Program approved by Parliament, which provides for rapid
implementation of privatization. We submitted a bill to Parliatnent to reduce the negative list of enterprises
not subject to privatization from 6,000 enterprises to only 2,541 enterprises and the bill was approved in
two readings. We have also developed an accelerated implementation plan for the completion of mass
privatization during 1998. We have taken steps to improve the structure of the State Property Fund and to
improve information availability on the results of privatization.
These efforts have been rewarded by excellent results. As of December, 1997, more than 7,000
medium/large enterprises have been transferred at least 70 percent to private hands since January 1, 1995
and more than 8,200 since privatization began in 1992. About ninety percent of the population has
collected their privatization certificates and over 80 percent of those collected have been invested,
demonstrating the massive public support for the program. During 1997, we began selling shares in the
largest and most attractive enterprises in Ukraine.
The Government accelerated small-scale privatization during 1995 and maintained the pace at
around 1,500 enterprises per month throughout 1996 and into early 1997. Small-scale privatization in
Ukraine is now virtually complete and will continue until it is completed.
The Government's intention is to complete mass privatization of medium and large enterprises
during 1998. By the end of 1998, around 11,000 medium/large enterprises will have been transferred at
least 70 per cent and around 44,000 small scale enterprises transferred 100 percent to private hands since
privatization began in 1992. We intend to continue divesting residual shareholdings in those enterprises not
yet completely privatized. During 1998, we intend to continue increasing the depth of privatization by
including large and strategic "Group D" enterprises in the program, to privatize the enterprises involved in
grain marketing and distribution and to continue rapid privatization of unfinished construction sites. In
addition to mass privatization for certificates, we shall approve new regulations for case by case
privatization of large infrastructure and other strategic enterprises and will launch initial public offerings
for 10-20 of these enterprises with the intention of attracting core private investors and raising revenues for
the budget.
Capital Markets Reform
In mid-1995, the capital markets trading infrastructure and regulatory framework in Ukraine was
only rudimentary in comparison with the large number of enterprise shares that were already in private
hands and available for trading, the growing number of shares being issued every week as a result of the
mass privatization program and the growing number of investment companies and other market players
who had become active. The Govenmment took action to create efficient, well-regulated capital markets as
a means of enabling enterprise ownership changes, promoting restructuring and better governance in the
period following mass privatization as well as in mobilizing new equity investments. We also took action
to protect Ukrainian and foreign investors in Ukraine from capital markets frauds.
From 1995 to mid-1997, we built a legal and institutional structure for capital markets operation
and supervision in Ukraine. This included the creation of the Securities and Stock Market Commission
(SSMC) and the transfer to the SSMC for the regulation of activities of all capital markets participants.
We also took action to ensure the transfer of joint stock company share registries from the issuers to
38



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
independent share registrars and to create a depository system for securities. We took steps to promote the
development of self-regulatory organizations (SROs) of professional market participants and made
membership in these SROs mandatory for all professional market participants. As expected, secondary
trading in corporate securities generated by the mass privatization program increased very rapidly during
1997. The Ukrainian capital markets supervisory structures and infrastructure were prepared for this in
advance.
During 1998, the Government intends to consolidate and strengthen the supervisory mechanisms
and market infrastructure, ensuring that we lay the foundations for capital markets institutions and
operations appropriate for a developed market economy. The transfer of share registries for medium and
large enterprises to independent share registrars will be completed and shareholder lists will be made
available to the public. Reporting will be required of all block transactions involving sales of more than 10
percent of the shares of an enterprise. By mid-1998, at least 90 percent of issuers with more than 500
shareholders will have completed the transfer of registries to independent share registrars. The Securities
Commission's mandate will be strengthened to regulate all capital markets activities of banking institutions
and no mandate will be given to any other institution to regulate the capital markets. Mandatory
membership of market participants in SROs will be fully implemented and the role of SROs further
strengthened. Regulations improving disclosure of information on new share issues and secondary share
trades will be implemented and EU standards will be applied to all new share issues. Depository and
clearance and settlement mechanisms will be further developed and strengthened and rules issued for their
operation complying with EU and IOSCO norms. Improvements in securities taxation will be implemented
to ensure equal treatment of earnings from the stock exchanges and OTC markets and Government will
refrain from creating unequal conditions for different groups of market participants or from owning a
controUing or blocking vote in any commercially viable capital markets institution.
Accounting Reform
The Government is aware that there is an urgent need for Ukraine to improve the accountability of
enterprises which, at present, are operating with very little transparency. Ukraine needs to harmonize the
existing accounting system with International Accounting Standards (IAS) to provide an adequate basis for
monitoring financial performance and making investment decisions, also promoting foreign investment
flows. Since January 1998, the Ukrainian banking system has been using IAS. Work will also begin on
implementing IAS throughout the enterprise sector. The first step was the recent establishment of a
Methodological Council on Accounting comprised of representatives of all the main agencies involved in
accounting reform, including the professional associations of practitioners, to function as a body to
facilitate the development and adoption of a national accounting system in compliance with IAS. In
coordination with the Methodological Council on Accounting, the Securities Commission will require
professional capital markets participants (e.g. brokers and dealers) and joint stock companies, shares of
which are traded on regulated markets, to provide financial statements in compliance with LAS. In
addition, pilot companies have been selected by the Securities Commission to introduce and implement
IAS. Furthermore, steps have been taken, in part with the recently approved Tax Law, to provide a
comprehensive basis of tax accounting separate from financial accounting standards (i.e., tax laws will no
longer be the only determinant of financial reporting). Audit standards, which are in compliance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA), will be adopted. Full and successful implementation of the
above will require several years and the Government, together with professional accounting associations,
will begin immediately developing training, testing, certification and licensing prograns and educational
curricula incorporating IAS and ISA to strengthen the accounting profession.
39



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
Bankruptcy Reform
The Government is aware that the present bankruptcy process in Ukraine is inadequate. It does not
provide an adequate exit mechanism for failed enterprises, nor does it allow for restructuring of enterprises
at risk of failure without liquidating them, nor does it serve adequately as a final debt collection mechanism
for creditors. The existing law contains internal inconsistencies and also conflicts with other legislation.
So far, the Law has been used almost exclusively by the tax authorities to collect overdue tax payments
rather than as the start of a collective procedure for all creditors. In addition to shortcomings in the law,
there is little implementation capacity in Ukraine for bankruptcy proceedings. Also, there are few
incentives to initiate bankruptcy in Ukraine and many reasons not to do so, including the complexity and
cost of the process, the soft capital adequacy requirements on the banking sector which provide an
alternative to debt recovery, and the very uncertain prospects of success after initiating the bankruptcy
process.
The Government will attempt to obtain improvements in the bankruptcy legislation during 1998.
But the process of changing the law is likely to be lengthy and its outcome in the short term uncertain. We
shall proceed in the interim with the effective solution of working with the Highest Arbitration Court of
Ukraine to implement the recently issued Presidium explanations to the existing law. These explanations
were prepared with help from international donors and will be put into effect throughout the period of the
EDAL II program. They provide for adequate court procedures for restructuring enterprises, adequate
procedures for initiating bankruptcy proceedings, clarification of mechanisms for writing off and writing
down debt, a stay on payments as soon as documents to initiate bankruptcy proceedings are filed, and
resolution of problems concerning excessive powers of state creditors. During 1998, the government will
take necessary action to revise enforcement procedures for state budget creditors. Also, during 1998, the
government will take necessary action to adopt professional criteria and requirements for licensing
bankruptcy trustees and liquidators. The Government will also promote the development of training
programs, professional standards, payment mechanisms and the creation of a SRO for trustees in
bankruptcy, and will initiate several pilot bankruptcy processes to identify any remaining problems and
their solutions. Before the end of the EDAL II period, the Government will prepare a report based on the
experience of the pilot bankruptcy proceedings with suggestions of possible solutions to the problems
identified.
Deregulation
We are aware of the high economic costs of the unfriendly investment climate in Ukraine, caused
by the many constraints imposed on the private sector by excessive regulation. The Govermrent intends to
implement a comprehensive program of deregulation that will address problems such as excessive taxation,
difficulties in starting up new businesses, excessive customs and trade restrictions, burdensome regulations
on financial transactions and on property, and the excessive number of inspections imposed on businesses
by a myriad of government agencies. This comprehensive deregulation program will be implemented with
the support of the donors and from several proposed World Bank loans.
In the context of the EDAL II program, the Government will take specific measures aimed at
simplifyring business licensing, registration and inspections and will institutionalize the deregulation
process. We have already taken the first steps. These have included the creation of an Expert Council on
Deregulation under the Vice-Prime Minister for Economic Reform, and the creation of a State Committee
for Entrepreneurship Development intended to promote deregulation and a more hospitable business
environment. The Supreme Rada has approved and the President of Ukraine signed changes to the Law on
Entrepreneurship, which lowers to 41 the number of licenses required for different activities and simplifies
40



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
the registration of enterprises. We have begun analyzing the complex web of permits required from central
and local level government agencies in order to operate a business. An ombudsman for international
investors has been appointed, a Foreign Investment Advisory Council has been created and the State
Committee for Entrepreneurship Development has already begun consulting with the private sector to
identify constraints to private business activities in Ukraine.
The President of Ukraine has signed a decree removing constraints to the development of
entrepreneurship, which provides a framework for the implementation of the deregulation process in
Ukraine. We have analyzed which business licensing problems are within the Goverunent's authority to
solve and shall solve them quickly. We shall extend our analysis to cover problems relating to permits
other than licenses. We shall simplify and accelerate those licensing procedures that will remain in place
and, in mid-1998, we shall propose measures to limit the extension of licensing to new activities. We shall
prepare a plan for a comprehensive rationalization of inspection procedures at the central and local levels.
Finally, we shall ensure that the deregulation process is perpetuated by creating permanent mechanisms for
deregulation and for consultation between the public and private sectors on deregulation issues.
41



UKRAINE: PROPOSED SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN ACTION PROGRAM
grow^.                ~~~~~Arrangement with the IMF and in
preparing an EFF.
Piivaiization of Small, Medium
and Large Enterprises and
Unfinished  Construction  sites__                                  _  _  _  _ _  _  _   _  __    _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _
Increase the pipeline and maintain   Since 1992 9,650 medium/large
the momentum of mass           enterprises have entered the
privatization of medium and large   corporatization/privatization
enterprises (Groups B, C and D).   process.
w                          ~~~~~~~~~~Parliament has approved in third
reading a bill to reduce the negative
list to 2,541 enterprises.
Over 7,500 medium/large        Privatize at least 70 percent of the   Privatize at least 70 percent of the
enterprises have been at least 70    shares of at least 8,500  shares of at least 9,500
percent privatized since January 1,  medium/large enterprises since  medium/large enterprises since
1995.                          January 1, 1995.                Januaryv 1, 1995.
The deadline for the use of
privatization and compensation
certificates has been extended to the
end  of  1998.                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Privatize the enterprises involved in An order has been issued to reduce
grain marketing and distribution    the number of enterprises within
including processing plants, mixed  the grain marketing monopoly  ______________   ______________
- .z



ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO   ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY   ACTIONS TO BE TAIKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                   SECOND TRANCIIE                      TIHRD TRANCHE
fodder plants, grain storage and   "Khlib Ukrainiy" to only 100 by
grain procurement sites and grain   the end of 1998 and to privatize all
elevators.                        the rest.
Share sales of 150 grain marketing   Begin the share sales of at least 300  Begin the share sales of at least 450
and distribution enterprises have  grain marketing and distribution   grain marketing and distribution
begun.                             enterprises.                       enterprises.
At least 70 percent of the shares of  Privatize at least 70 percent of the    Privatize at least 70 percent of the
40 grain marketing and distribution   shares of at least 60 grain     shares of at least 100 grain
enterprises have been privatized.    marketing and distribution       marketing and
enterprises.                       distribution enterprises.
Increase the depth of privatization    Sales of shares in large enterprises
by selling the shares of large    began to accelerate in mid-1997.
enterprises (enterprises with an
indexed fixed asset value of at least  A list of all large enterprises to be
W     UAH 170 million as of January 1,   included in the privatization
1997).                            program and a schedule for their
privatization have been prepared.
At least 40 percent of the shares of  Privatize at least 40 percent of the    Privatize at least 40 percent of the
at least 50 large enterprises have  shares of at least 60 large       shares of at least 100 large
been privatized.                   enterprises.                       enterprises.
Divest residual share holdings in  More than 3,750 medium/large       At least 4,250 medium/large        At least 4,750 medium/large
medium/large enterprises.         enterprises have been 100 percent   enterprises to be 100 percent      enterprises to be 100 percent
privatized since January 1, 1995.    privatized since January 1, 1995.    privatized since January 1, 1995.
Complete major privatization      Draft regulations have been        Issue all necessary remaining
transactions.                     prepared for transparent procedures  regulations to ensure that case by
for (i) tenders and (ii) selection of   case privatization procedures are in
advisors, for case-by-case tender    line with international best practice.
transactions including an IPO
component for cash for a significant
______________________________ percentage of shares.



i  13 .I'  S;                              03X  .I :!1^   5uiS2                        i  
10 major case-by-case privatization   Finalize documents for at least 3  Bring the three cases to the stage of
transactions have been initiated   cases and prepare prospectuses,     negotiations with strategic
with share allocation plans that   and organize distribution channels   investors.
provide for at least 51 percent of    for the IPO component.
shares to be purchased by strategic                                    Register 3 prospectuses with the
investors.                                                             Securities Commission.
Select and initiate 10 additional
case-by-case privatization
transactions.
Complete small scale enterprise    Small scale enterprise privatization
privatization (Group A objects).   is 90 percent complete throughout
Ukraine.
The rapid rate of small scale
enterprise privatization will
continue and an environment will
be maintained favorable for the
completion of the process
throughout Ukraine during 1998.
Accelerate the privatization of    The proposed 1997 Privatization
unfinished construction sites.     Program includes the objective of
accelerating privatization of
unfinished construction sites.
The procedures and environment
for privatization of unfinished
construction sites will remain
favorable for rapid implementation
throughout the EDAL II period.
1,500 unfinished construction sites   Privatize 2,500 unfinished       Privatize 3,600 unfinished
have been privatized.              construction sites.                 construction sites.



ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO           ACTIONS To BE TAKEN BY            ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY'
BOARD PRESENTATION                 SECOND TRANCHE                     THIRD TRANCHE
Improve the availability of      Reguiar reports are available from
information on privatization.   the SPF on privatization results and
the SPF has begun including
information on numbers of
employees, size of fixed assets and
a complete breakdown of sales by
various methods in statistics on
privatized enterprises.
Lists of all privatized medium and
large enterprises are now being
made publicly available.
Capital Markets Reform
hIprove the registration of stock    Instructions were issued in late  Consolidate and make available to   The Conmmission will have started
ownership of privatized companies.  1996 that all issuers with more than  the public on request shareholder   to impose sanctions for non-
500 shareholders should transfer   lists for all privatized enterprises.   compliance.
their share registries to independent
registrars and the transfer is   At least 90 percent of issuers with
continuing.                      more than 500 shareholders will
have completed the transfer of
registries to independent registrars.
Consolidate the mandate of the   The Securities Commission has
Securities Commission.           been established, staffed, and given
a legal mandate to regulate and
supervise all aspects of capital
markets operations.
The SSMC has reached an          The Commission and the NBU will  Banks will have organized their
agreement with the NBU           have adopted rules of organization   capital market activities in
confirming the SSMC as the       of capital market activities within   organizationally and financially
primary regulator and supervisor of commercial banks.             separate internal departments.
banks' operations with securities.                                or subsidiaries.
eo QJ



lufag    9 v                              - - l al- 
Through the period of the loan the 
Government will refrain from
empowering other institutions to
regulate securities markets,
including derivatives in securities,
commodities and currencies.
Strengthen the role of self-     An Association of Investment      All trading systems will have been   All broker/dealer firms and
regulatory organizations (SROs).    Businesses, an Association of  either licensed by the Commission   registrars will have become
Registrars and Depositories, and an  or closed.                    members of SROs of their choice
OTC trading system, PFTS, have                                     or their license will have been
been granted temporary (six                                        revoked.
months) SRO licenses.
The responsibility for issuing rules
Membership in SROs is required                                     of conduct and their
for all professional participants of                               implementation, and arbitrating out
regulated markets.                                                 of court between investors and
members will have been fully
The requirement that at least 25                                   delegated to SROs.
percent of all licensed market
participants should belong to an
association before it can qualify as
an SRO was replaced with the
requirement that the association will
have sufficient resources to carry
out the statutory obligations of an
SRO.
Improve disclosure of information   The SSMC has issued regulations to  All trading systems will have  Apply EU standards to disclosure
on publicly traded companies and    improve disclosure and market  securities listing procedures     of information for all new public
on secondary trade of shares.    transparency.                     approved by the Commission.       share issues.
A draft Securities Law includes a
clause to require reporting by
beneficiaries of block transactions.
L X



ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO           ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY            ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                 SECOND TRANCHE                     THIRD TRANCHE
A regulation requiring (i) reporting
to the Commission of all
transactions for blocks of shares
greater than 10% of the total share
capital of an enterprise and (ii)
public announcement by the
Commission of the details of the
transaction has been approved by
the Commission.
Develop the depository and       A dematerialized depository for  Issue regulations which meet      A depository system for corporate
clearance and settlement systems    government securities is in   IOSCO and EU standards for       securities traded through regulated
for corporate securities.        operation; a depository and      depositories, custodians and     trading systems will be operational.
settlement system for corporate  clearance and settlement.
securities is being set up.                                       A clearance and settlement system
All privatization IPOs will use  for corporate securities traded
One depository for corporate     dematerialized shares which will   through regulated trading systems
securities, MFS, has already been   have been placed in a depository,    will be fully operational.
licensed and is operating.       and will be sold through regulated
trading systems.                 A settlement payment system for
The Law on the National                                           regulated trading systems, with the
Depository System and Electronic                                  participation of the NBU, will be
Circulation of Securities was                                     operational.
approved by Parliament.
Reform the taxation system to    The Commission has completed an   The proposed changes in taxation
support the development of       analysis of taxation of securities    will be submitted to Parliament.
securities markets.              market services and revenues, and
drafted a law on taxation of
securities, to encourage the
development of regulated markets
for corporate securities.
The Commission has issued an     Stock exchanges and regulated
interpretation to the tax authorities   OTC markets will be treated
y x



a t j ll iI Is                           !*_ ! L!E !        1        1, I I la IN* l
for equal treatment of the stock  equally for tax purposes.
exchanges and the regulated OTC
markets.
Clarify Govermnent's role in the    Government has already established
securities markets.             its regulatory role for the securities
markets and this is implemented
through the independent SSMC.
Throughout the period of the loan
the Government will refrain from
creating unequal conditions for
market participants and will not
own controlling or blocking
ownership vote in commercially
viable capital market institutions.
Enterprise Accounftng Reform
00    Adopt and disseminate a National   MOF has created a Board (ASB) to  MOF will, in coordination with the  Satisfactory progress in
Accounting System (NAS) in      adopt a NAS in compliance with    Board, develop a timetable for the   implementation of NAS.
compliance with International   IAS. The composition of the Board  development and adoption of a
Accounting Standards (IAS).     includes, among others, members    NAS which will be in compliance
nominated by the following entities: with IAS.
all significant professional
accounting associations, educational
associations, STA, SSMC, NBU,
MOS, MOE, MINED and MOF.
The ASB has met and decided on
its operational procedures and
agenda.
Adopt financial disclosure      The Securities Commission has    Instructions for annual report
requirements, in compliance with   amended annual reporting formats   preparation by CMPs will be
IAS, for capital market participants  for CMPs to follow IAS.    prepared by the Securities
z



(CMps).                                                        Commission and disseminated to
Pilot CMPs have been selected to   issuers.
adopt financial disclosure
requirements in compliance with
IAS.
Adopt and disseminate a National   Most of the ISA standards from the                          Satisfactory progress in
System on Auditing (NSA) which   1994 International Federation of                              implementation of a NSA.
is in compliance with International  Accountants publication have been
Standards on Auditing (ISA).   translated into Russian.
Seven audit standards, which are in
compliance with ISA, have been
developed and adopted in Ukraine.
The Chamber of Auditors, in
coordination with the Securities
Commnission, and all significant
accounting associations, has
provided a timetable for the
adoption of: a) a NSA which is in
compliance with ISA; and b) the
requirement of the use of a NSA by
CMPs.
Reform educational curricula for   A Ukrainian/ British association of                         An accounting curricula program
accountants and auditors to    accounting and auditing teachers                                will be prepared based on the pilot,
incorporate IAS and ISA.       has been working on accounting                                  incorporating IAS and ISA, to
curricula development and training                             begin in at least one graduate level
of specialists in higher education                             institution in Fall 1998.
institutions.
The Ministry of Education and a
leading Ukrainian university has, in
coordination with all significant
oD 1



accounting associations, jointly
developed a pilot accounting
curricula program incorporating
IAS and ISA to be conducted at
bo fi the undergraduate and
graduate levels.
Enhance the professional capacity    The Ukrainian Federation of    The Chamber of Auditors, in       Satisfactory ieplementation of
of the accounting profession.     Professional Accountants and      conjunction with all significant  training, testing, certification and
Auditors (Ur PAA) has conducted    accounting associations, will oSAer criteria for professional
training and examinations for the    develop a program and timnetable to  development; adoption of this
first of a diree level certification  provide training, testing,    criteria in the requirements to
program (preliminary, intermediate  certification and other criteria to  obtain and maintain an audit
and fully certified) which        increase professional capacity on    license.
incorporates IAS concepts; training  NAS and NSA which are in
is currently being conducted for the  compliance widi IAS and ISA.
second level certification.
o     Bankruptcy Reform
Improve existing court procedures   A final version of Presidium    Satisfactory progress in          Satisfactory progress in
to facilitate restructuring of    Explanations was issued which     implementation.                   implementation.
financially viable enterprises, or  includes, to the extent permitted
parts thereof, and the liquidation of  under existing law, all relevant
non-viable enterprises; clarify   bankruptcy reform elements
mechanisms that would be available  described in the proposed action
to permit post-petition financing  plan and recommended by the
and thereby preserve the underlying  donors, their consultants and other
value of the business during the  interested parties.
restructuring process.
An inter-Agency Working Group
on Bankruptcy Reform has been
established by the Cabinet of
Ministers.
'J i



ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO           ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY            ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                  SECOND TRANCHE                    THIRD TRANCHE
Clarify mechanisms in existing law   Consultants' and the Ukrainian  Satisfactory progress in       Satisfactory progress in
for requirements for filing a    Bankers' Association have prepared  implementation.               implementation.
bankruptcy petition, providing   written comments on Draft
notice to all parties before the  Explanations re improving these
initial hearing, and commencing  mechanisms.
either a restructuring or liquidation
case.
Clarify mechanisms in existing law   A law "On Write-Offs and     Satisfactory progress in          Satisfactory progress in
for writing off and writing down  Restructuring of Taxpayers'     implementation.                   implementation.
debts (i.e., permitting creditors to   Liabilities as of March 31, 1997"
accept less than 100% of their debt  was enacted on June 5,1997.
if they wish).
Clarify mechanisms under existing   The high court explanations have    Satisfactory progress in    Satisfactory progress in
law to provide for a court-enforced  clarified the necessary mechanisms.  imnplementation.         implementation.
moratorium on payments to
creditors for pre-petition debts and
a stay or cessation of all creditor
proceedings against the debtor and
its assets as soon as a petition is
filed.
Clarify and resolve the conflicting   Conflicting special powers of  Prepare draft of revised      Cabinet of Ministers (or President)
rules relating to the excessive  collection provided to state budget   enforcement procedures for state  will issue a decree adopting revised
special powers of collection     creditors, in particular those which   budget creditors.          enforcement procedures for state
provided to state budget creditors    may be in conflict with existing                             budget creditors.
and the proper functioning of the    court procedures and/or those
bankruptcy laws.                 which may impede the smooth                                       Satisfactory progress in
functioning of the bankruptcy laws                                implementation.
were identified and action plan to
remedy problems identified was
prepared.
oz
X



*                **'  0       ;      0S  01.    !             1         0      0i,Li& ...  41l ;.   
Develop training programs,        A "Professional Working Group"    Cabinet of Ministers (or President)   Satisfactory progress in
professional standards, payment   has been established comprised of   will issue a decree adopting      implementation
mechanisms and a self-regulatory    representatives from the Highest  professional criteria and
organization for bankruptcy trustees  Arbitration Court, Ministry of  requirements for licensing of
and liquidators                   Justice, Ministry of Education,    bankruptcy trustees and liquidators.
Kiev Economic University,
Ukrainian Federation of            Trustee/liquidator remuneration
Professional Accountants and       measures will be adopted,
Auditors, Ukrainian Bankers        publicized and implemented.
Association, Ministry of Economy,
Agency for Prevention of           A Trustees and Liquidators self
Bankruptcy and Ukrainian Lawyers  regulatory organization will be
Association.                       established.
The Highest Arbitration Court,    Inaugurate an education program
Ukrainian Bankers Association and   for trustees/liquidators.
State Property Fund have identified
experienced Ukrainian liquidators
and trustees, of the highest
qualifications and integrity, to be
included in pilot trustee training
program and to establish an initial
organizing group for the
Trustee/Liquidator self-regulatory
organization.
Draft professional criteria and
requirements for licensing of
bankruptcy trustees and liquidators
were prepared, with input from
SRO initial organizing group
Draft procedures clarifying        _
CD



ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY           ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY
BOARD PRESENTATION                 SECOND TRANCIIE                  THIRD TRANCHE1
compensation issues for trustees
and liquidators under existing law
were prepared, which, to the extent
possible, establish remuneration
measures based on a percentage of
returns to creditors, rewarding
success and penalizing long, drawn
out proceedings.
Following the reform of the                                     Identify post-privatized enterprises   Satisfactory progress in
bankruptcy procedures described                                 to be liquidated or restructured and  implementation.
above, initiate proceedings, under                              begin court-led proceedings.
the court-led bankruptcy law, to                                                                 Prepare a report detailing problems
liquidate 2 post-privatized former                                                               encountered within the bankruptcy
state-owned debtor enterprises and                                                               system during the course of these
to restructure 2 post-privatized                                                                 proceedings, with suggestions for
former state-owned debtor                                                                        possible solutions to these
s     enterprises (these proceedings may                                                               problems.
be initiated by either private or
public sector creditors).
Deregulation
Develop a policy framework and    An Expert Council on Deregulation
strategy for deregulation of the  was created under the Economic
Ukrainian economy.              Reform Group headed by the Vice-
Prime Minister.
The Expert Council has formally
adopted a government strategy for
deregulation.
Government has created a State
Committee on Entrepreneurship,
charged with deregulation and other
measures to create a friendly   __



:4 kippiz      p  mg       m Lug *101
business environment. A draft
strategy for deregulation has been
prepared by the Expert Council on
Deregulation and the Committee
for Entrepreneurship.
Simplify business licensing     Legislation has been approved by    Prepare draft regulations necessary  Implement regulations to resolve
processes and reduce the time for   the Parliament and signed into Law  to resolve business licensing  business licensing problems that are
their completion.               to reduce the number of activities    problems that are within     within Government's power to
subject to licensing from 101 to 41,  Government's power to implement.  implement.
based on consistent criteria of
protecting public health and safety,  Complete the analysis of problems
the environment and national    relating to obtaining permits other
security.                       than licenses and prepare proposals
to resolve them.
Analysis has been completed of
business licensing problems and  Propose institutional mechanisms to
any necessary actions that are   screen and limit any proposals that
within Government's power to    would extend licensing to new
imnplement.                     activities.
Simplify permissions and formal    Government has completed an
documentation for business      analysis of business registration
registration with the aim of making  problems and has prepared
it a quick, one stop process.   proposals to simplify registration
and to make it more uniform.
Under draft enabling legislation and
a draft Presidential decree,
registration would be handled by a
single office under a simplified,
accelerated procedure that should
take no more than ten working days
for processing.
up



ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY           ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY'
BOARD PRESENTATION                SECOND TRANCHE                    TIIIRID TRANCHIE
Detailed implementation proposals
to make registration a ten working
day, one stop process have been
prepared.
Eliminate unnecessary inspection    Work has begun on the        Complete analytical work on     Specify principles and standard
procedures and standardize      identification and analysis of  inspection procedures.           procedures to reduce problems and
remaining ones under the principles  existing inspection procedures,                             abuses and outline a plan for
of: one per year (except where  problems and abuses, and                                         reforms at the central and local
there is an overriding technical  constraints imposed on businesses.                             levels.
need for higher frequency);
adequate advance notice for routine
inspections; no inspections without
the approval of the management of
the inspection agency; clear rules
for due process in inspections
including the rights of the
inspected, clear rules for seizures
and appeals.
Institutionalize deregulation,  An ombudsman for international    Make the institutional arrangements
making it the continuing work of    investors has been appointed.  fully functional.
government by launching a
systematic review of new and    A Foreign Investment Advisory
existing regulation by a specialized   Council has been created
unit with real power.
Increase transparency and       The newly created State Committee  Make the consultative process with
accountability of government by  on Entrepreneurship has been   the private sector fully functional
creating a private              consulting with the private sector to  with regular meetings and
business/government consultative    identify constraints with the  recommendations submitted to the
mechanism.                      intention of taking the role of  Cabinet.
reviewing all proposed regulations
and other legislation for their
impact on private business. A
_ C



I |--              S                      =                     hID
consultative process involving the
private sector has already been
approved.
An inter-agency Expert Council on
Deregulation has been created to
promote a stable, continuing
process of deregulation. In support
of the work of the Expert Council
criteria have been developed to
review continuously and
consistently all new and existing
legislation and rules, with the aim
of assessing their impact on private
business development and the
economy.
_ h
-Ax



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
Post-Privatization Equity Markets in Ukraine
Market Potential
Rapid and massive privatization has created a large potential for secondary trading in stock of
mass-privatized companies and further flotation of new stock and corporate debt. The primary
privatization offers have been mostly bought by managers, employees and financial intermediaries
(investment funds and companies, and commercial banks). According to the privatization legislation,
employees can sell their shares after the national currency was introduced on September 1, 1996. With
the growing interest from foreign and domestic investors and increasing supply of shares of privatized
companies from employees and domestic financial intermediaries, the development of the secondary
equity market is likely to accelerate dramatically.
Around 7,000 privatized companies are formally available for public trading but it is not easy to
find good investments among them. The Ukrainian economy is going through a dramatic adjustment,
both at sectoral and enterprise levels. Collapse of the Soviet Union and price liberalization combined
with the austerity program have resulted in severe internal and external disequilibria which, in turn, have
changed the structure of industry. The share in the economy of the metal processing and electricity
production industries has increased at the expense of engineering, light industry and food processing.
This increase has been relative, as the metal and electricity production sectors shrank more slowly that
the average 50 percent for the economy as a whole. At the industry/enterprise level, the most
fundamental reasons for the low attractiveness of Ukrainian firms to investors are:
*  overcapacity of many companies, such as steel and fertilizers producers, which were built to
supply the whole Soviet Union. The only possible outlet for their products and source of
financing for restructuring would be export. However, even in the FSU, Ukrainian companies
have to compete with world-wide producers who have gained access to FSU markets and can
also provide higher quality and lower priced products.
*   obsolete technologies and outdated equipment are the legacies of the Soviet Union. Most of
Ukrainian industry was built during the 1930s and rebuilt during the 1940s and early 1950s. The
limitations of outdated equipment in light industry have been magnified by generally poor
quality and product design during the Soviet central planning period.
*  the obscure financial position of companies as a result of inter-enterprise arrears, heavy use of
barter transactions, and inadequate accounting standards. Poor information about companies is
also the result of the vested interest of managers who want to maintain the control of ownership
and, therefore, suppress secondary trade in shares of "their" companies, by keeping information
for themselves.
Portfolio Investors
Under these circumstances, investors look for bargain basement equity prices. For investors, the
expected dividends are not a main consideration as the main components of the calculation--risk
assessment and cash flow projections--are not reliable. Investment decisions are based on the broad
fundamental analysis of the growth potential of particular firms and/or branches of the economy.
57



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
One group of important investors are Privatization Investment Funds (PIF's). PIFs have used
discounted privatization certificates during the primary privatization auctions to buy shares of companies
which are believed to have good long-term prospects. Funds buy shares on their own account (to build
portfolios for their own shareholders), or act as the agents for other investors, mostly foreign.
Acquisitions, in this case, are pre-arranged deals between PIFs and foreign investors. A PIF acts as a de
facto broker buying shares from individuals, mostly employees, packaging them and offering them to
foreign investors. It is a niche created by regulatory and institutional imperfections of Ukrainian
markets. Foreign investors, or western brokers acting on their behalf, have less information about
current shareholders and they do not want to bother about retail re-registration of shares ard payment
settlement.
The second important group of investors are insiders--managers and employees. Protection of
jobs and retaining control are essential factors for insiders. Usually, they use leveraged buy-out
financing to take-over their own companies.
Foreign portfolio investors are a growing part of the equity market. Their first, and still
prevailing, interest have been in government debt instruments. It is estimated that some $2 billion worth
of foreign capital was invested in high-yielding T-bills in 1997. There is also, however, growing
investment in equity by specialized funds or western institutional investors (pension funds, etc.). For
example, in mid-July 1997, the Societe Generale raised $80 million for a Ukraine country fund which
will focus on private equity and is hoped to be fully invested within 12 months.
Investors are taking a long-term view -- believing in a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to acquire
Ukrainian companies at low prices. The distinction between strategic and portfolio investment is not
always clear. Low liquidity of secondary markets often forces investors to follow a "buy-and-keep"
investment strategy. Trading of large blocks of shares takes place when an investor emerges. Public
secondary trade in shares, in the traditional Western sense, is very limited.
Market Regulation and Supervision.
The Ukrainian capital market is relatively well-regulated, compared with other FSU republics.
Unlike in Russia, where securities regulation and supervision are struggling to catch up with rapidly
growing trade, Ukrainian market infrastructure is being established ahead of secondary stock trading. In
July, 1996, the Parliament adopted a Law on the State Regulation of Securities Markets. The Law
strengthened the position of the State Securities and Stock Exchange Commission (SSMC)--previously
established by a Presidential Decree--as an independent regulatory body. It also transferred to the
Commission all regulatory authority in the area of licensing, issuing, and trading in securities, previously
scattered among various governmental bodies.  The Chairman of the Commission and the
Commissioners were appointed according to the new Law and started their statutory activities. The
Commission issued a number of its own regulations which, together with the new Law on Regulation and
an old Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges, created a comprehensive although temporary base for
regulation of capital markets activities.
The Commission started to build its professional capacity in the areas of reviewing and
approving prospectuses, licensing and inspecting market participants, imposing sanctions for violation of
securities legislation and regulations.  In particular, the Commission entered into a "twinning
arrangement" with the Polish Securities Commission which has resulted in the transfer of know-how and
hands-on experience in regulation of an emerging capital market. Staff of the Commission have also
58



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
participated in training activities offered by the US SEC. In March 1997 the SSMC practically launched
its enforcement program by investigating an investment company, as a result of an investor's complaint,
and subsequently suspending their operating license.
Regulation and supervision of commercial banks in their capacity of securities dealers is an area
of potential regulatory conflict between the SSMC and the NBU. The model of universal banking
adopted in Ukraine comprises, in addition to basic banking services, brokerage services and insurance
activities. Progressive interconnection between banking, insurance and securities activities requires close
coordination of work of regulatory agencies. Integration of supervisory activities based on a long-term
coordination plan is needed. It should lead to joint on-site examination of universal banks by the NBU
and SSMC.
Stock Ownership Registration
There has been good progress, compared with other FSU republics, in registration of share
ownership of mass-privatized companies. About 65 percent of privatized companies consolidated the
lists of their original shareholders and transferred them to registrars.  Some 330 registrars are
operational, of which about 130 are operated by banks or financial groups and can be considered as truly
independent and having a stable financial and organizational base. The rest, some 200 registrars, have
been organized and financed by issuers; these are "pocket registrars" with managers of companies at
least trying to influence their statutory functions. Problems which will have to be addressed soon are
consolidation of registration functions and costs of services. The number of registrars is apparently to
large and financially not sustainable. Operating registrars try to survive by charging very high fees;
reportedly, re-registration fees can be as high as 8 percent of the transaction volume.
There has been visible progress in building depository capacity. In particular, a depository
called MFS, established by the major banks and traders has a real chance of becoming an all-Ukrainian
depository for shares. The MFS has been supported by TA from USAID. A SRO of registrars,
custodians and depositories (PARD) was organized and presently has 102 members and is becoming a
partner to the SSMC in regulating its members.
Market Intermediation
In theory, the market is intermediated by more than 600 licensed broker/dealer firms but in
practice no more than 10 percent of them are active. Commercial banks are active and important market
participants, most notably Bank Ukraina, the Savings Bank (both state-owned) and the privately owned
Privatbank and Gradobank. They offer brokerage services, custodian services and also buy shares on
their own account. The weak financial position of the banks limits their opportunities for further
expansion into the securities market.
Secondary Trading
Secondary trade is fragmented. Three market places operate in Kiev and at least one regional
universal exchange trades in shares (Donetsk). The OTC trading system (PFTS) is the most promising
one. It was established by the Ukrainian Securities Traders Association in June 1996. The system is
similar to Russia's PORTAL and is broadly modeled on the US NASDAQ. The PFTS connects 65
broker/dealers in major Ukrainian cities who post on an electronic board their bids and offers.
Transactions are fixed over the phone and settled individually between the parties. Over 70 stocks are
59



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
listed, of which some 10 are actively traded on a regular basis. PFTS also trades in compensation
(privatization) certificates and T-Bills.
Regulated markets, however, still handle a minority of overall trade taking place in Ukraine.
Reportedly, about 80 percent of transactions are concluded off the market. Information about prices and
volumes traded is scarce and unreliable. A business journal, IntelNews, publishes its own stock index
which, however, has a limited and vague stock base. Presently, there is no tax incentive for
concentration of trade on regulated markets. Public disclosure of trade in large blocks of shares is not
required. The SSMC plans to build a sufficient monitoring system to effectively enforce larger
transparency of the market.
Clearance and Settlement
There is still much work to be done to create well functioning, transparent and robust secondary
securities markets. One area of need is to establish necessary clearing and settlement infrastructure.
Presently, transactions are settled individually on cash-versus-delivery basis. Re-registration (transfer)
of shares and payment arrangements are left to contracting parties. This apparently has hampered the
trade of small blocks of shares between small investors and between regions, and added to market
fragmentation and lack of transparency. Establishment of a consolidated depository system will
hopefully solve the problems on the side of settlement of securities (transfer of ownership). The
payment side of settlement will require involvement of the NBU. The plans in this area will be
coordinated by the end of 1997. Building the necessary market infrastructure requires financing, not
always available from private sources. Clearing and settlement is one area where public money is often
used in emerging markets to build necessary infrastructure. The National Depository System may be
another area where Government financing is necessary. The SSMC is preparing a study regarding
necessary investments in this area to be financed from the budget and foreign aid.
Corporate Securities versus Public Debt: Crowding-out
A large budget deficit and its financing through the public debt led to the fast growth of the T-
bills primary market. Growing popularity of government securities has helped curb the inflation rate but
has been crowding-out investment in stock by local and foreign investors. In 1996 and in early 1997, the
yield offered on three-month T-bills was 40 percent. The need for deficit financing will not go away
soon. The government is also raising capital in the international markets. In December 1997, it issued
US$400 million in bonds with a minimum guaranteed yield of 22% in dollars; and, in February 1998, the
government sold a 750 million DM placement with a 16% yield. Apparently, corporate stock cannot
offer anything close to it, particularly after risk adjustment.
The Government also has a unique international exposure related to its overdue U$1.4 billion
debt to the (formally) private Russian company Gazprom. The debt was replaced with the equivalent
dollar-denominated state bonds, with 12 years maturity, two years grace period and 8.5 percent interest
(in dollar terms). It is possible that part of the debt may be swapped for equity of privatized companies.
If handled properly, this could stimulate trade in corporate equity.
60



ANNEX 4
UKRAINE: SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
g7g *~-<  ;L>9,t, ? r RAw-
4..*T, ?-TR riLtg9-
.~~~~Y.'  t"A--~~~~C        .C~ t
61



CAS Annex B8
Generated: OV19/19
StatUs of Bank Group Operations in  Ukraiice
IBRD Loans anid IDA Credits in Ile Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Originial Amounist in USS Millions               and actual                Last ARPP-
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Suipervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                      PuLpose
No.                                                                           IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj           Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 2
Active Loans
UA-PE-9106    IBRD 36140   1993  MIIJISTRY OF FINANCE, UJKRA         INSTITUTION BUILDING         27.00        0.00            0.00          11.48      11.48      11.48       s             S
UA-PE-9117    IBRD 38910   1995  GOVT. OF UKRAINE                   AGRIC. SEED DEVELoPM          32.00        0.00            0.00          31.04      28.63       1.05       s             S
UA-PE-38820   IBRD 38650   1995  GOVT. OF UKRAINE                   HYDROPOltER REHAB.           114.00        0.00            0.00          99.90      38.67       0.00       S             S
UA-PE-35814   IBRD 40570   1996  UKRAINE                            ENTER. DEV. ADJUST.          310.00        0.00            0.00           9.40       4.65       0.00       S             S
UA-PE-44110   IBRD 40160   1996  GOVERttMENT OF UKRAINE             COAL PILOT                    15.81        0.00            0.00          10.01       5.37       0.00       S             S
UA-PE-40564   IBRD 41180   1997  GOVERIIMENT OF UKRAINE             COAL SECAL                   300.00        0.00            0.00         150.00     150.00       0.00      H(J           ItU
UA-PE-44851   IBRD 41070   1997  STATE EXPORT/IMPORT BAtIK          EXPOIRT DEVELOPMENT           70.00        0.00            0.00          65.71      -5.50      -5.50       s             S
UA-PE-9113    IBRD 41030   1997  UKRAIIIE                           AGRICULTURE SECAL            300.00        0.00            0.00         150.00    150.00        0.00       S             U
UA-PE-44444   IBRO 40980   1997  UKRAINE                            ELECTRICITY MARKET           317.40        0.00            0.00         240.88    247.78        0.00      flU            U
UA-PE-45940   IBRD 40970   1997  UKRAINE                            SOCIAI. PROTECT. SUPP          2.60        0.00            0.00           2.60       2.27       0.00       S             S
Total                                                                                          1,41U.41        0.00            0.00         770.89    653,03        7.03
a'
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 715.84               500.00            1,215.84
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,488.41               500.00            1,988.41
Amount sold                     :                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid                                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Vndisbursed               :               770.89                 0,00              770.89
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (IlS   highly Satisfactory, S   satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, ItU -
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Dlsburseaenet data Is updated at the end of thu first week of the amonth.
C:\vesttbazeAxby   e        n       i
Urt
Cicncroted by the Operations Infonnationl System (018)



-    ANNEX 6
Ukraine
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994/96               Ukraine VC Fund         0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.10    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.10    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Cormnitment
Loan   Eauity  Ouasi  Partic
1998                  CREDITANSTALT-          5.00    2.36    0.00    0.00
-    UK
1996                  FUIB                   10.00    6.50    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         15.00    8.86    0.00    0.00
63



ANNEX 7
CAS Annex B2
Generated: 02/19/98
Ukraine - Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                             1995        1996        1997         1998
Porfolio Assessment
Numnber of Projects under implementation!                4           7           11          10
Average implementation period (years)b                 .72         1.04        1.38        1.97
Percent of problem projects"
by number                                      25.00        42.86       54.55       30.00
by amount                                       4.01        17.03       50.91       61.61
Percent of projects at risked
by number                                      25.00        50.00       72.73       60.00
by amount                                       4.01       33.54        72.96       70.51
Disbursement ratio (%/)'                              7.97          .61       32.86        8.59
Portfolio Managernent
CPPR during the year (yes/no)
Supervision resources (total US$ thousands)         307.79      345.12     1,361.78      467.68
Average Supervision (USS/project)                    76.95        49.30      123.80       42.52
Memorandum item                                   Since FY80    Last five FYs
Projects evaluated by OED
by number                                                             1
by coimmitment amount* (US$ millions)               500             500
Percent rated U or HU
by number                                             0               0
by commitnent amount*                                  0              0
* the cormitments are nominal amounts
a.  As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY)
b. Average age of projects in the Banks country portfolio.
c.  Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (E).
i. As defined under the Portfolio Tinprovement Program
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the beginning of the
year: investment projects only.
C:Avesna~anexb2.rtf
64



ANNEX 8
Ukraine at a glance                                                            8/2&97
Europe & Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central middle-
Ukraine     Asia  income       Development dlamond
Population mrd-1996 (millions)                       51.4      479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                           1,180     2,180    1,750               Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                              60.7     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                      -0.2       0.3      1.4      GNP                           Gross
Labor force (%)                                      -0.2       0.5     1.8      per    II                        ary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable sInce 1989)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpopulation)             32
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                70        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (yewaS)                      69        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIve bIrffis)             15        26       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children unrier 5)
Access to safe water (% orpopulaton)                  97         ..      78
Illiterary (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    2                            -         Ukraine
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoo/-age population)  87        97      104
Male                                                87        97      105               Lower-mddle,4rncone group
Female                                              87        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1986      1995    1996
Economic rattos
GOP (bilions USS)                                             47.5    46.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                  26.7    22.7
Exports of goods and services/GOP                             47.1    45.5              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                     23.5    20.5
Gross national savings/GOP                                     22.9    20.4
Current account balance/GOP                    ..      ..      -3.2    -2.6
Interest payments/GDP                         ..       ..       1 A      1.2     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..      ..      17.3    19.6
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..       6.9      6.3
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debVexports                  ..                                             Indebtedness
1S9S-86  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                    Ukraine
GOP                                   ..   -9.0    -12.2      -10.0     5.4          - ower-mlrcle-incomegroup
GNP per capita                       ..       ..   -11.5       -9.6     5.4
Exports of goods and services        ..       ..      2.7      19.1     7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                G1975    1S         19  1996           Growth rates of output and Investment (%
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      15.0    13.0       o
Industry                                      ..       ..      50.3    46.2    -19
Manufacturing                                                           S      -20
Services                                       .        .      34.7    40.6 
430
Private consumption                           ..       ..      65.1    57.8    -40
General government consumption                ..       ..      21.1    21.7
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      50.2    47.9                     G01   --a-GOP
1975-86  1986-96     1995    1996
(avwage annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Imports f%7
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      -4.6    -10.3    20
Industry                                      ..       ..    -15.7   -10.2    is
Manufacturing                                    ..       ..        ..
Services                                       ..      ..      -6.4    -8.5    10
Private consumption                           ..       ..      -0.1     -5.6       .
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..      -3.5    -8.2      a
Gross domestic investment                     ..       ..    -33.7   -23.5              91   92   93   94   es   so
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       1.5    17.4             -     Expors  tmports
Gross Domestic Product                        ..   -9.5       -12.1     -9.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for yeam other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.
65



ANNEX 8
Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
197S    1NSS       1995    1996
Domestdc prices                                                                    InSatlon 1%)
(fS change)                                                                        c.rm
Consumer prices                                 ..      ..    377.0       80.0 
Implicit GOP deflator                         *0.5    -1.3      415.6     64.1     't
Government fnance                                                                                             _
(% of GOP)
Current revenue                                 ,,      ..       37.8     37.2              91   92   92   94   95   ff
Current budget balance                          ..       ..      -5.0    -3.1                     GDP d<f.   r
Overall surplusadeficit                        ..       ..       -4.9    -3.2
TRADE
1S76    4116'5     1316     1116
(ml/lions USS)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..   13,647   15,118      2oo00
Commodity 1 - ferrous metals                  ..       .,    4,484    4,847
Commodity 2 - ores, stags, ashes              ..       .,       560      605      IS,=0
Manufactures                                  .
Total imports (ci.    15,946   19.376                                              10.00
Food                                          .        .        746      811
Fuel and energy                                .        ..    6,946    8,107       $.X
Capital goods                                                 3,281    4.891
Export price index (1995-100)                  ..        ..      100       102            so  91   n   9   94  95  Se
Import price index (199S.100)                  ..        ..      100        99                  osxports  . Mimports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                       ..       .        100      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    19SS       1396     1996
(nillIons US$)                                                                      Current account balance t GODP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  ..        ..   16,436   19.935
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..   17,643   21,067       o     .     0
Resource balance                                ..       ..   -1,207   -1,132      -5
Net income                                      ,.       .,     .608      .579     .10
Net current transfers                           ..   ..   200   512                                   F
Current account balance,                                                           -20
before official capital transfers             ,,       ,,   -t,515   -1t199
Financing items (net                            ..       ..      475   -1,296 
Changes in net reserves                         _        ..    1,039       -97     *501
Memo:                                                                              __
Reserves including gold (mii. USS)              .,       ..    1,069    2,087
Conversion rate (loca/USS)                          ..           1.11     1.83
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1166      1ff6    1916; _              
(mllions US$)                                                                       Compositn of total debt 1916 (mill. USs)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..       ,,    8.219    9,122
IBRO                                          ..       .       491       659                       G    A
IDA                                           ,,0                          0                      231  5i
F
Total debt service                                               1,137    1,247         214
IBRD                                          .        .         8        32
IDA                                           ..       ..        0         0                                    c
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                22I
Official grants                              ..        ..        0         0
Ofticial creditors ,m                                  ..      401       426
Private creditora                             ..       ..     -220      34                                   D
Foreign direct investment                     ..       ..      266      436                     E           266
Portfolio equity                              ..       .       517       350                   3300
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..        ..      146    1,260       A.-IBRD                     E-0ilathal
Disbursement                                 ..        ..      401      406       B. IDA    0 D Otr muNltatl  F . Print
Ptincipal repayments                         ..        ..        0         0      C-             . IMFSG .t4tn
Net fows                                      ..       ..      401       406
Interest payments                            ..        a.        8        32
Net transfers                                ..        ..      393       374
Development Economics                                                                                                S128197
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Sowet Union wre subject to more than the usual rnge of uncertainty.
66



ANNEX 9
Page I of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estmate         Proected
Indicator             1993   1994   1995    1996   1997    1998    1999    2000
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product               100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0
Agriculture'                        20.0   13.2   12.1    10.5        ..
Industay                            34.1   39.1   34.2    312         ..
Services'                           38.3   30.4   34.6   39.1         ..
Total Consumption                     64.2   68.1   76.5    79.7   83.8    82.4   82.0    11.7
Gross domestic fixed                  24.3   23.S   23.3    20.8   19.3    19.1    18.7    18.5
investment
Government investment                  ..     ..      ..      ..      ..
Private investment                    ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
(includes increas in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                       25.9   35.4   47.1   45.5   40.4    40.0   39.1    38.6
Inports (GNFS)                        26.2   38.6   50.2   47.9   45.3    43.3   41.5    40.6
Gross domestic savings                35.8   31.9   23.5    20.3   16.2    17.6    18.0    18.3
Gross national savings'                 ..   31.7   22.7    20.2        ..
Memorndum items
Gross domestic product              32,731  36,756  37,008  44,007  48,207  51,427  55,190  S8,733
(USS million at curent
prices)
Gross national product per           2,380   1.910   1,630   1,180      ..
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth maes
(%. calculated from 1995
prices)
Gross domestic product at         -14.2%  -23.0%  -12.2Ye -10.0%   -3.0%   -2.0%A   0.0%    1.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                  ..     ..      ..  -.8%   -5.0%   -0.7/o   1.0%    1.7%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at         -14.2%  -22.6%  -11.6%   -9.7%   -2.7%/*  -1.7%    0.3%    1.3%
market prices
Total consunption                      ..     ..      ..      ..      ..
Private consumption                   ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
(continued)
67



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual             E_liaU          Projected
Indicator             1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998    1999   2000
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFSP                    15,850  14,713  16,436  20,346  19,480  20,569  21,598  22,673
Merchandise FOB                 12,796  12,111  13,647  15,547  14,952  15,951  16,749  17,586
Inports (GNFS)b                   16,755  16,044  17,643  21,468  21,817  22,253  22,920  23,337
Merchandise FOB                 15,315  14,471  15,945  19,843  20,169  20,572  21,189  22,037
Resource balance                    -905  -1,331  1,207  -1,122  -2,337  -1,684  -1,323  -1,160
Net current transfers                120    200    200              770     300    225    169
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance             -854  -1,395  -1,515         -2,163  -2,021  -1,78S  -1,747
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreiga direct           200     91    266    526    437        550    589    630
investment
Long-tern loans (net)                709  -1,065   -347   -482   -176    -901   1,533   1,108
OtEicial                            307     98    385    241    -93    -619   -525   -208
Private                             402  -1,163   -732   -723    -43    -282   2,078   1,316
Other capital (net, including        -92   2,510    867       ..  2,311   2,327     408    509
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                   37   -141    729    -83   -409         44   -765   -500
Maemorandum items
Resource balance (% of              -2.8%   -3.6%   -3.3%   -2.5%   -4.8%    -3.3%   -2.4%   -2.0%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real anmual growth rates
(1995 prices)
Merchandise exports                 2.7Ye  -7.3%    9.8%      ..     ..
(FOB)
Primary                              ..  .        9.9       e ..    ..
Manufactures                          ..     ..  9.8%        ..     ..
Merchandise inports                25.6%   -7.4%    7.4%      ..     ..
(CF)
Public finance
(Ds % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                       ..     ..   37.6   36.9   36.9    33.9   31.8   30.7
Current expenditures                  .. ..   39.3   39.3   41.1    37.9   32.7   31.4
68



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual             Estimate         Preectd
Indicator              1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998    1999   2000
Currest account surplus (+)             ..     ..   -1.7   -24    -4.3    -4.1    -0.9    -0.7
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                    ..      ..    3.4    1.1    1.1        1.1     1.3     1.6
Foreign financing                      ..      ..    2.7    2.1    0.0        0.0       .
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market              ..      ..   261    34.2   442        50.1    56.5
prices)
Growth ofhl2 (%)                        ..     ..      ..   92.9   44.3    27.1    24.0
Private sector credit growth(           .. I.          ..     ..      ..
total credit growth (%/6)
Price indices( 1995 =100)
Merchandise export price            123.5  126.0  129.3        ..     ..
index
Merchandise import price            123.5  126.0  129.3        ..     ..
index
Merchandise terms of trade          100.0  100.0  100.0        ..      .
index
Real exchange rate                  243.7   33.3    4.5        ..     ..
(USSlLCU)
Real interest rates
Consumer price index               5371%  891.1%  376.8%  -94.9%   30.0%    12.0%   10.0%   10.0%
(% growth ate)
GDP detlator                       3334%  954.4%  415.8%   64.1%   15.3%    14.3%   10.0%    8.0%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be addet.
b. 'GNFS' denotes 'goods and nonfator services
c. Includes net unrequited transfies excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of F resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the goveromant to which the data refer.
t: fLCUt denotes 'local currnc units." Aa incrase in USSILCU denotes appreciation.
69



ANNEX 10
UKRAINE
SECOND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
External Financing
(US$ millions at current prices)
Estimated                P?ojecion
1997          1998         1999          2000
Sources                                   2,596         3,454         3,502         3,549
Disbursement                             1,278         1,309         2,913         2,919
IMF                                       235           354             0            0
Other medium- and long term               739           912         2,513         2,419
ofwhich EBRD                            306           824           594           584
Net short-term                            304            43           400          500
Direct foreign investment                  434           550           589          630
Debt relief                                884         1,595             0             0
Uses                                      2,596         3,454         3,502         3,549
Non-interest current account deficit     1,082           895           878          528
Debt service due                         1,346         2,467         2,262         2,245
ofwhich IBRD                             87           135          176           239
Repayments (including IME)                794         1,813         1,526         1,390
Interest payments                         551           654          735           855
Increase in gross reserves                 176             0           236          835
Other capital flows                         -7            92           126          -60
70



