                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                               Report No: 75405 v1




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

               PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                             OF
NIGERIA FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC REFORM AND GOVERNANCE
                          PROJECT
                       CREDIT 4011-UNI
              BOARD APPROVAL: DECEMBER 14, 2004

                                                TO THE

                              FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA


                     DATE OF RESTRUCTURING: JANUARY 11, 2013




AFTP3
AFRVP


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




EFCC - Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
GDDS - General Data Dissemination System
GIFMIS – Government Integrated Financial Management Information System
ICT – Information and Communication Technology
IFR – Interim Financial Report
IPPIS – Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System




               Regional Vice President:       Makhtar Diop
                     Country Director:        Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly
                      Sector Manager:         Mark Roland Thomas
                    Task Team Leader:         Gloria Aitalohi Joseph-Raji




                                          2
 NIGERIA – FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC REFORM AND GOVERNANCE
                            PROJECT
                         CREDIT 4011-UNI

                Restructuring Paper (Extension of Closing Date Only)

1.     The closing date for Nigeria Federal Government Economic Reform and
Governance Project, Cr. 4011-UNI, (P088150) will be extended from February 28,
2013 until June 30, 2013. This will be the second extension of the project; the first
being in 2009 for a period of 24 months. This current request is for an extension of a
further 4 months, which will cumulatively be 28 months. With this proposed
extension, the Project will be 8.2 years old at the time of the new closing date.

2.       Implementation progress has varied across the various project components
with some components (like the strengthening of statistics component) having fully
achieved their objectives while some others have experienced certain delays.
However, many of the components which had initially been off to a slow start or had
experienced delays have picked up considerably over the last eighteen months;
particularly the GIFMIS implementation, the tax administration reform component
and the modernization of external audit component. Some of the main results achieved
to date (PDO indicator outcomes) include: (i) The implementation of the biometric
Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) in the six pilot federal
government departments in 2007 led to the elimination of ghost workers and a
convergence between the nominal and payrolls; (ii) The support to capacity building
for EFCC operatives in financial intelligence gathering and other investigative
techniques has contributed to an increase in the number of economic and financial
crime prosecutions by the EFCC from 263 at end-2005 to 1,099 at end-2011; (iii)
Support to organizational and staffing reforms as well as to improvements in work
processes (through information technology) and capacity building in the pilot civil
service agencies contributed to improvements in the quality of services provided by
these agencies (as measured by a recent staff and service user survey); (iv) support to
organizational/institutional development, human resource development and data
development in the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has contributed to a
significant increase in the percentage of NBS statistical outputs that are released
within the IMF-General Data Dissemination System (GDDS) time and frequency
limits; and (v) the partial roll-out of the budget execution and treasury single account
module of the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System
(GIFMIS) has led to the availability of budget performance reports and monthly
financial statements on a real-time basis and prompt submission of these reports
(within 7 days of each month’s end) by 93 agencies of government, with this number
set to significantly increase by end-January 2013. Much of the overall success of the
project now hinges on the full implementation of the GIFMIS (first phase), which
concerns the majority of remaining resources under the project. Cumulative
disbursements now stand at US$ 118 million (of the Credit of US$ 143 million) – a
disbursement ratio of 83 per cent. All but the sum of about US$ 6 million are
expected to be disbursed by the new proposed closing date. This US$ 6 million will
still be outstanding for post-implementation support for the GIFMIS which is expected
to be cancelled from the ERGP and transferred to another active project in the Nigeria
                                            3
portfolio. While implementation progress has been hampered by some of the
delays earlier highlighted, the project objectives continue to be achievable as
indicated by the current outcomes on the PDO indicators outlined above, and
more so, with an extension of the closing date. The performance of the Borrower is
satisfactory and all audit reports and unaudited IFRs have been submitted to date.
There is neither outstanding external audit report nor IFR for any of the implementing
entities. Project performance is currently rated Moderately Satisfactory for IP and
Satisfactory for DO.

3.       The proposed extension is necessary to enable the full roll-out of the all the
modules under the first phase of the Government Integrated Financial Management
Information System (GIFMIS) as well as to enable the project provide adequate support
for the take-off of the newly-created Technical Services Department (comprising three
units - Oil & Gas, Public-Private Partnership and Tax Policy) within the Federal Ministry
of Finance as part of the continued organization restructuring of the Ministry. The ERGP
is supporting required technical (consultancy) services for this department as well as the
acquisition of office and ICT equipment. The Ministry of Finance has submitted to the
Bank, a work plan for the take-off of this Department which will be fully implemented
before the new project closing date. The full implementation of the GIFMIS (first phase)
is particularly critical to the overall success of the ERGP; however, due to administrative
and procurement delays, the contract for the supply, installation and implementation of
the GIFMIS system was only signed in May, 2011 and while an initial project
implementation plan had envisaged full roll-out of this phase by August 2012,
bureaucratic delays, especially relating to the budget preparation module, contributed to
stalling this process and a bit more time is required to achieve full roll-out. In the event
that the project is not extended, there is the risk that the GIFMIS vendor will make claims
for the delivery of certain modules which the necessary departments of government have
not yet tested and confirmed contractual acceptance. Based on a new implementation
plan agreed between the vendor and the Federal Government’s Office of the Accountant-
General, full roll-out would be achieved by end-June 2013.

4.      This will be the second extension of the project. The project closing date was in
2009 extended for 24 months. This current request is for extension for a further 4 months
to June, 30, 2013 which cumulatively, will be 28 months.




                                             4
