oQunwnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFOCIAL USE ONLY
Rpw  r. 9103
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1305-HA)
NOVEMBER 7, 1990
d Human Resources Operations Division
tment III
and the Caribbean Regional Office
restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the perfornce of
Its conterts may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.
c,,  -  r   ., t- I  .,  ,,,,,, I



*  '                                             ,:          1   
CARS          Cooperative for Amrican Relief to Xveryone
GTOIO         General International Trading Company
IDA           International Developmant Association
IDS           Inter-Amical  Development Bank
INAOHIX       National Institute for Management and
International Higher Studies
(Institut National de Gestion et Hautes Etudes
Intornationals)
IPN           National Pedagogical Institute
(Institut Pedagogique National)
M0E           Ministry of Education
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
VNDP          United Nations Development Program
aNESCO        United Nations Scientific and Cultural organization
USAID         United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD SANK                 FOR OMCIL US ONy
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S A.
Olhce CA OwDetw.Gt4
Op.tatmn, Evaluatim
November 7, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  HAITI - Third Education
Proiect - (Credit 1305-HA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Haiti - Third Education Project
(Credit 1305-HA)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this tim-.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be NWd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1305-HA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
Preface   .....................................................
Evaluation Summary ...........................................
I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  ...................1
Project Identity  ........................................1
Background  ...........................................1 .
Sector Development Objectives  .........................1
Policy Context ........................................                       1
Linkages Between Project, Sector and
Macro Policy Objectives  .............................                      2
Project Objectives and Description  ......................                       2
Project Objectives .................                                          2
Project Components ........... ........................                       3
Project Design and Organization  .........................                       4
Project Implementation  .......              ...........................         5
Critical Variances in Project Implementation  ....                 ......     5
Project Risks .........................................                       7
Major Results of Project ................................                        7
Project Objectives ....................................                       7
Impact ani Sustainability of the Project ....                  ..........     7
IDA's Performance  .......................................                       8
Major Strengths and Weaknesses ........................                       8
Lessons Learned  .........            ..............................          8
Borrower Performance  ........              ............................         9
Major Strengths and Weaknesses ........................                       9
Leasons Learned  .........            ..............................          9
Project Relationship  ........              ............................         9
IDA-Borrower Relationships ............................                       9
Consulting Services.                                                             9
Project Documentation and Data                          .9
Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Mission .10
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .11
III. PROJECT PROFILE AT TIME OF COMPLETION  ...................                       15
ANNEX 1 - List of Schools Constructed and Rehabilitated
and Housing Facilities ...........................                    27
ANNEX 2 - Participant on Completion Mission and People Met ...                        30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1305-HA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Education Project in Haiti, for which Credit 1305-HA in the amount of SDR
8,400,000 (US$9 million equivalent) was approved on November 30, 1982. The
credit was closed on December 31, 1987, one year behind schedule. It was
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement was on February 3, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Division of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, Department III (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II and some
statistical information included in Part III).
Part I is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Development Credit Agreement and its amendment; supervision reports;
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; internal IDA memoranda; and a
mission to the country in December 1989. Part II was prepared by the staff of
the Project Implementation Unit and submitted by the Government of Haiti.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1305-HA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives and Content
1.       The principal objectives were to implement important elements of the
Government's program of educational reform, involving curriculum change,
including greater use of Creole in primary schools, and improved access to the
lower primary education cycle; and to enhance efficiency, quality and
management of primary education. The project was also designed to improve the
training of accountants and to introduce a uniform examination for profes-
sional qualification at the National Institute for Management and
International Higher Studies (INAGHEI). The initial design of the project
included: (a) constructing, furnishing and equipping schools for grades 1-4
totaling 180 classrooms covering 45 schools, including also a pre-school
center and a family education room in each school to be used for literacy
classes for young adults and for community meetings, and the provision of
housing facilities for four teachers in all 45 schools; (b) accountants
training at INAGHEI; (c) the support of the educational reform by improving
the National Pedagogical Institute's (IPN) Curriculum Development Unit; and
(d) the provision of technical assistance by the United Nations Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) under the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) financed country assistance program. The project also financed ataff
salaries of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Education Reform
Committee, monitoring and evaluation studies, and technical assistance.
Delays in project implementation, mainly the civil works aspects, and the need
to limit recurrent expenditures, in view of austerity imposed on the budget by
weak economic performance, forced the Government to request an amendment in
project design. In June 1986 the credit was amended to: (a) limit
construction to 11 schools or 81 classrooms instead of 45 schools, to
construct ai,d furnish accommodations for 18 teachers instead of 180; (b)
repair and expand 20 existing schools and rehabilitate 78 schools damaged
during social disturbances of February 1986; (c) add a computer Laboratory at
INAGHEI for use of private schools; dnd (d) increase the percentage of
disbursement for construction from 65% to 99% due to the chronic lack of
counterpart funds. By the end of the project, 11 new schools were finished,
20 existing schools were rehabilitated, 64 instead of 78 schools built under
tho First and Second Education Projects were rehabilitated and accommodations
for eight teachers only (two housing facilities) were constructed.



Implementation Experience
2.       The project encountered numerous difficulties that tended to reduce
overall impact. Main entities responsible for project implementation were the
Ministry of Education (MOE) and IPN. Lack of counterpart funds caused delays
in the start up of civil works, and due to cost escalation the project had to
be scaled down. An Education Reform Committee formed by representatives of
the sector was created to develop a strategy to implement the reform and
supervise its execution. However, frequent changes of ministers and turnover
of high level personnel at MOE resulted in the dismantling of the committee
after a few months. Lack of full consensus for the reform program by all
concerned levels of the Goverunent, especially the policy for greater use of
Creols, may have also contributed to lower public acceptance of the new
methods. In addition, the MOE had not clearly instructed or prepared public
school. directors and inspectors to implement the reform. Government officials
judged that a gradual and successful introduction of the reform in the public
schools would result in its acceptance by the important private sector
(enrolling about 52% of students), which was not entirely the case. By the
end of project implementation, of a total of 1,003 public schools only 7%
introduced the integral reform program and 38% adopted it partially; in total
the reform was introduced in 45% of the public sector. Of a total of 3,813
private schools, 2% adopted the reform program in full and 6% adopted it
partially, i.e. 8% of the private sector adopted the reform program.
3.          The lack of capability for planning and weak management at MOE and
IPN, aggravated by frequent staff turnover, translated into poor coordination
between these two key entities, especially in the field. MOE trained reform
teachers through its secondary schools, and IPN was in charge of the training
and retraining of school teachers in the field through its pedagogical
advisors who, after being promoted to inspectors, were transferred to MOE.
Consequently, IPN had access to the pedagogical agents only through MOE, which
had the effect of reducing the amount and quality of pedagogical support
services available for the reform. IPN was also in charge of the design and
production of new curricula and textbooks.  Annual reviews of work programs
and budget, and yearly contracts between PIU and IPN staff directly involved
in project execution, were introduced during project implementatior to
counteract planning and managerial weaknesses in MOE and IPN and improve
programming and project execution in view of the chronic lack of counterpart
funds. Technical assistance offered by local consultants helped improve the
accounting system both in IPN and the PIU. A sufficient quantity of
educational materials was produced, but materials were often distributed late
in the school year. Pre-service and in-service teacher training was improved,
but the retrained teachers were not in all cases appointed to the targeted
schools.
4.          Furniture and equipment were procured in sufficient quantities,
using a procurement agent. The services of the selected procurement agent
were not without problem, however, and, in retrospect, insufficient attention
was devoted during project design to strengthening the Borrower's own capacity
to manage procurement. Better technical specifications would have avoided the
award of contracts for furniture that was less adapted to the climate and did



not follow the widely accepted standard design. Supervision of civil works
was enhanced with the contracting of an outside r nsulting enginozering firm
that helped exercise quality control. School design was adapted to the rural
setting, but adequate school maintenance is still not in place. UNESCO
technical assistance was devoted to curriculum development, teaching
materials, and radio education. A foreign consultant was involved in the
setting up of INAGHEI's computer laboratory.
Proiect gesults
5.       With some modifications, occasioned by the amendment of the Credit
Agreement in June 1986, quantitative goals of the project relating to the
provision of furniture, new curricula and educational materials have been
essentially met. The fact that tight budgetary limits made it impossible to
construct the full complement of 180 classrooms (45 schools) and corresponding
housing units as envisaged during appraisal is still felt in the system. A
better dissemination of the goals of the reform to the public at large and
more involvement of the private sector would have promoted an earlier
acceptance of the new educational system. The accountants education program
was fully and adequately executed.
Proiect Sustainability
6.       This project is part of a long term strategy.  It has been in-
strumental in initiating the process of educational reform prepared by the
Government, and in setting the basis for further investments as under IDA
Fourth Education Project and with financing from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
Despite the controversy of the reform program, the project has made
improvements in coverage and quality in selected locations of Haiti.
Evaluation of the reform program, where it has been implemented under the most
favorable condLtions (sufficient didactic materials, trained teachers and
adequate physical infrastructure), has contributed to dispel doubts about its
benefits. The decision to scale down new school and housing construction due
to budgetary constraints, and to include instead rehabilitation works for
schools constructed under the First and Second Education Projects and damaged
during political unrest in 1986 has been beneficial to make available
classrooms that otherwise would have been neglected because of lack of funds.
The project has also been successful in providing training and retraining of
school teachers. Moi effective monitoring by MOE and IPN could have enhanced
execution. However, lack of counterpart funding was and remains a major
constraint for education projects in the difficult political and economic
conditions of Haiti. Moreover, broad support by citizens and public
authorities for the reform needs to be strengthened by means of dissemination
and dialogue on the tenets and content of the reform. A broader base of
implementation, including the private sector, and decentralization of
administrative responsibilities would also facilitate further progress.



- vi -
Lndings and Le!sono Learned
The major lessons learned during project implementation ars
ammarized as follows:
(a)   Following chronic lack of counterpart funds, which was the
reason for delays in construction, and to counteract
planning and managerial weaknesses, joint IDA-Borrower
annual budgetary reviews were introduced. These reviews
helped clarify execution targets, specify annual budgetary
requirements and strengthen programming capabilities.
Furthermore, yearly contracts between IPN and PIU based on
work programs to be approved by MOE and IDA reinforced IPN's
planning capacity. The issue of lack of counterpart funds
did not improve after the system of reviews was introduced.
However, an increase in the disbursement percentage for
construction from 65% to 99% facilitated timely execution of
civil works, where lack of funds were highly felt.
(b)   The use of a procurement agent, while justified because of
inadequate local capacity tc manage all aspects of
procurement, was not successful. A higher priority should
have been given in project design to develop local
procurement capacity, reinforce institutional development,
and thus rely less on external agents.
(c)   Since this project was built around a major education reform
program, which proved controversial during implementation, a
more concerted strategy should have been adopted to involve
interested sectors of the population, includ.ng parents, in
formulating the objectives of the reform. The lack of
political support at the highest level of Government at the
beginning of project implementation may have alsD lessened
commitment for the reform. IDA should have asked for a
clearer strategy during the project preparation period.
(d)   Better coordination between MOE and IPN, including clearer
definition of respective roles, would have enhanced project
achievements. The respective roles of IPN pedagogical
agents and MOE district inspectors needed to be clarified
and communicated to inspectors, directors and teachers.
(e)   Continuity of IDA staff and UNESCO consultants during
preparation, appraisal, and supervision proved particularly
effective in helping to sustain project implementation, as
turnover of MOE personnel was quite frequent.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAIT
THIRi EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1305-HA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Progect Identity
- Project Name:  Third Education Project
- Credit No.:    1305-HA
- RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
Country Department III
- Country:       Haiti
- Sector:        Education
- Subsector:     Basic Education
2. Backaround
2.01      Sector Development Obiectives (at time of project appraisal).
General education in Haiti had a late start. Traditionally, education had
been an ecclesiastical function d rected to developing the urban elite.
Historically, French pedagogical values and methods dominated the education
system. The Second Five-Year Development Plan (1976-81) placed the provision
of basic education services among its four priority objectives (the others
being agricultural and industrial development, and investment in basic
infrastructure). The Plan's targets in basic education were: (a) an
enrollment growth of 5.1% annually; (b) the gradual reform of the curriculum
with the introduction of Creole as the main language of instruction for grades
1-4, and the development of related teaching and learning materials; (c) the
improvement and expansion of teacher training and recruitment to reduce the
public student/teacher ratio in rural schools from 74:1 to 50:1; and (d) the
st,engthening of educational manaqement by a reorganization of the ad-
ministration.
2.02      Policy Context.  The Government intended to address the problems of
low enrollment, inefficiency and inadequate quality at the primary level by
restructuring the education system and thus establishing the basis for new
investment. A reform program prepared with the assistance of the United
Nations Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), responsive to the
socio-economic and cultural conditions of Haitian society, was adopted in
September 1982. It built upon changes underway since 1978, when the
Government unified the urban and rural school systems under the Ministry of
Education (MOE); and the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) developed new
curricula, textbooks, and teacher training programs. In 1979, Creole was
introduced as the language of instruction in primary education and as a path



to eventual literacy in Frenchi, which would remain the main language of
instructioni at higher levels (i.e. after grade 7). Under the new struActure
the basic level consisted of a 4+3+3 year cycle (called "Fundamental
Education"). The important feature of the new structure was that school-
leavers at the end of the first cycle were expected to be functionally
literate, especially in Creole, and would have finished a self-contained
education package. Scnool leavers at the end of the second cycle were
expected to be fluent in French. The teaching 'nnovations under the reform
program consisted of: (a) the use of Creole as the main language of
instru.ction in grades 1 to 4. Reading and writing is in Creole; oral French
is used in grade 1, written French starts in grade 3; (b) each teacher remains
with a cohort of students for two yearE; (c) new curricila and myllabi are
developed, adapted to the Haitian culture and educational needs; (d) discovery
learning is used rather than memor.zation; and (e) teaching and learning
activities are supported by improved schonl supervision and inspection.  The
reform was introduced gradually, starting with grade 1 and moving each year to
a subsequent grade, with the expectation of having all 10 grades covered by
1990. An IPN evaluation study of April 1986 shows that the major objective of
the first cycle of the reform program was attained: the majority of students
have acquired literacy skills in Creole by the end of grade four. Under the
traditional sys4-em, those students who leave primary school retain little or
nothing from their two to six years of schooling because much of this period
has been spent in learning French, which students lose after dropping out of
school.
2.03      Linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives.  This
is not a project in isolation, but part of a lo..g term strategy. The
project's key activities, providing infrastructure, furniture, and education
materials; teacher preservice training and retraining; and improved training
for accountants at the National Institute for Management and International
Higher Studies (INAGHEI), clearly supported Government's objectives of
moderniziig the education sector. However, lack of broad support imong the
population, and even within ths Government, for the education reform,
especially the controversial decision to emphasize the use of Creole language,
hampe- d implementation.  The mandatory introduction of the reform without an
appropriate and widespread explanation of its philosophy led many to conclude
that "Creolization" of education was a means for further discrimination
instead of a tool for more efficient learning and a transition to French
language literacy.
3. Project Obiectives and Descrintion
3.01      Proiect Obiectives.  The principal objectives were to implement
important elemen-s of the educational reform, improve access to the lower
primary cycle, and enhance efficiency, quality and management of primary
education. In addition, the project provided assistance to improve the
t-aining of accountants and to introduce a uniform examination of profes-
sional qualification at INAGHEI. The project was initially planned for an
implementation period of five years, but tight limits in the availability of
IDA funds dictated a reduction of the scope of the project and a decision to
redesign the project for a period of only three and a half years. This first



phase was expected to finance a progressive introducticn of the ruform
starting with 40% of the crade 1 classrooms in 1982, 70% in 1983, and 100% in
1984, while grades 2, 3, and 4 would gradually follow, and grades 5, 6, anc 7
would test new educational materials.  According to this plan, a new project
would be appraised in 1985 to include, among other things, the activities
originally planned for the fourth and fifth years. A credit for SDR 8,400,000
(equivalent to US$9,000,000) was signed on January 14, 19^.3, and became
effective on March 28, 1983. Due to lack of sufficient counterrart funding,
which was a major factor of delay in the implementation of the construction
component, and evidence of some cost overruns, the Government and IDA decided
to scale down construction of new schools in order to keep investment
expenditares at the level of appraisal.  Fol'lowing social unrest that led to a
change in Government in February 1986, rehabilitation of classrooms
constructed under the Firat and Second Education Project was judged a
priority, 3nd funds from the Third Rducation Project were reallocated to that
aim.  The Credit Agreement was amended on June 12, 1986; an extension of the
closing date of one year was granted in November 1986 to December 31, 1987.
The Credit was fully disbursed on February 3, 1988.
3.02      Proiect Components.  There were three main components of the
prr'ect: to (a) improve access and enrollment, through the construction,
furnishing and equipping of schools for grades 1-4 totaling 180 class-ooms (45
schools), including also a pre-school conter and a family education rcom in
each school to be used for liter&cv programs for young adults and for
community meetings, and the provision of housing facilities for four teachers
in all 45 schools (about 180 teachers). The Care Foundation financed the
furniture and equipment for the pre-school centers. The location of the
schools in two geographic departments--Sud and Sud-Est--and one sub-depart-
ment, Nippes, in Grande Anse, was done after a school mapping exercise of the
region; (b) support the educational reform by improving IPN's Curriculum
Development Unit; designing and producing educational materials; and
reinforcing the pedagogical supervision service; and (c) improve education
management through accountants training at INAGHEI, and the establishment of a
national examination for accountants. The project also financed staff
salaries of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Education Reform
Committee; monitoring and evaluation studies; and technical assistance.
Technical assistance was also provided by UNESCO under the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP). Because of delays in execution and ,esulting cost
increases, by mid-1986 implementation of the school construction program would
have cost US$1.0 million more than originally anticip=ted, and its completion
would have required more time than available under the existing Closing Date.
In -ecognition of the cost increase and in view of tight budgetary controls,
the Government requested reduction of the program of new construction (from
180 to 81 classrooms). In June 1986 the Credit Agreement we._ amended to limit
construction of new schools to the 11 schools already under construction
instead of the original 45; to construct and furnish accommodations for 18
teachers instead of 180; to repair and expand 20 existing schools established
under the First Education Project (Credit 618-HA); to increase the
accountants' training component by providing a computer laboratory for use by
private schools; to rehabilitate 78 existing schools established under the
First and Second Education Projects (Cr. 618-HA and 770-HA), damaged during



- 4 -
social unrest in February 1986; and to increase the percentage of
disbursements for construction from 65% to 99%, due to the chronic lack of
counterpart funds. By the end of the project, 11 new schools were finished,
20 existing schools were rehabUlitater, 64 instead of 78 schools built under
the First and Second Education Projects were rehabilitated (82% of compliance)
and accommodations for eight teachers only (two housing units) were completed
(see Annex 1).
4. Prolect Design and Organization
4.01      The need for expansion of coverage and improvement of quality of
primary schooling in Haiti was shared by all parties concerned, and the
project design was basically geared to provide physical infrastructure and the
necessary education materials, including teachers training, to achieve an
expanded and improved service. At the same time, a revised educational format
and program of studies was designed for primary education under the aegis of
the education reform. Among other changes, the reform called for greater use
of Creole as a medium of instruction. However, there was no concerted
strategy to inform and discuss with the general public the objectives of the
reform through dissemination of information on the goal of the new education
progra..s. An Education Reform Committee formed by representatives of the
sector was created, aiming at developing a strategy to implement the reform
and super;ise its execution. However, frequent changes of ministers and
turnover of high level personnel at MOE resulted in the dismantling of the
Committee after a few months. The proposed use of Creole, in p'.rticular,
proved controversial. Opposition to the Creole language program was
apparently two-fold: an articulate opposition to the reform came from some
urban elites who were reluctant to have their children studying in Creole;
also many parents of lower and middle class households questioned whether
Creole would be as economically instrumental for their children as French. In
view of this external opposition, the reform also failee to receive broad
public defense by all concerned levels of the Government.  The issue was also
clouded in that the public was never informed clearly whether Creole literacy
was seen as a more efficient route to French, as intended by the education
authorities, or as an end in itself.  Most of the support for the reform came
from the educational authorities most closely associated with it.
4.02      The physical aspects of the project were well prepared.  Although
many elements of the curriculum reform were experimental, the scope of the
project was, however, appropriate in that it was the only vehicle at
Government's disposal to implement the reform of public education. And it was
widely judged that gradual successful introduction of the reform in the public
schools would result in its voluntary adoption by the private schools,
enrolling as much as 52% of children. During the implementation of the Third
Education Project, of a total of 1,003 public schools, 72 (7%) introduced the
integral reform program and 383 schools (38%) adopted it partially. In total,
the reform was applied in 45% of the public system. Of a total of 3,813
private schools, 86 (2%) adopted the reform program in full and 234 (6%)
adopted it partially; which means that 8% of the private sector applied the
reform program. Combining the public and private sectors, the reform was
adopted by 16% of tha schools. However, the roles and responsibilities of the



implementing institutions (MOE and IPN) needed to be better defined and
coordination between the two needed to be strengthened. First, teachers were
supervised at three levels: inspectors at the district level (depending from
MOE), pedagogical advisors attached to Regional Pedagogical Centers (depending
from IPN); and their own directors in the schools. The three levels were not
well coordinated; nor were the tasks of each group with respect to
implementation of the reform program clearly delineated. Second, IPN was in
charge of the training and retraining of school teachers in the field through
its pedagogical advisors. The latter were promoted to inspectors and
eventually transferred to MOE. Consequently, IPN had access to the
pedagogical agents only through MOE and this had the effect of reducing the
pedagogical support services available for the reform. Moreover, teachers
prepared in the reform curriculum were not always recruited or assigned to
reform program schools, and often reverted to traditional teaching style.
Third, IPN was responsible for developing textbooks, workbooks and teacher
guides under specifications agreed with IDA/UNESCO before contracting with
private sector enterprises for printing. By virtue of its superior technical
capacity with respect to pedagogical aspects of the reform, IPN eventually
assumed a leadership role. For its part, MOE often failed to support these
efforts, for example with respect to the assignment to targeted schools of
teachers trained in the new curriculum, or to monitor developments closely.
4.03      Original project design did not include the annual reviews of work
goals, plans and budget introduced during project implementation, to
facilitate adjustment and response to changing conditions and to counteract
the challenge of chronic shortage of local counterpart financing. The
expansion and improvement of education started with this project are also the
subject of a follow up project (Fourth Education Project, Cr. 1592-HA).
5. Project Implementation
5.01      Critical Variances in Project Implementation.  Three factors were
principally responsible for the slowness in project implementation and
ultimately for a project reformulation: (a) chronic shortages of counterpart
funds that were at the source of a delay of over one year in completion of
civil works; (b) the implementation of the reform falling behind schedule, due
to lack of broad public support, absence of full consensus within the
Government (the Presidency and the Cabinet), and the fact that the schools
were free to choose which program to implement (traditional or reform); and
(c) frequent turnover of high level personnel in MOE, weak management at MOE
and IPN, and poor coordination between the two institutions, especially in the
field.
5.02      After a year of project implementation, MOE had not yet clearly
instructed public school directors and inspectors on their role in supporting
the reform, nor had it publicly announced that the reform would continue after
grade 4, the first cycle of primary education. The respective roles of IPN
pedagogical agents and the district inspectors needed to be clarified and
communicated to inspect  i, directors and teachers.  Distribution of teaching
materials frequently did not take place at the beginning of the school period.
Programs and courses for pre-service and in-service teachers training were



performed on time, with varying degrees of success; but the retrained teachers
were often not appointed in reform schools because MOE did not know until well
into the school year which schools would implement the reform. Furthermore,
budgetary restrictions were another factor in the failure to appoint teachers
to schools that had chosen to introduce the reform program, and general lack
of coordination and cooperation between IPN and MOE was evidently a
contributing factor.
5.03      During implementation, planning, management and coordination
remained weak. Some steps were taken to reinforce IPN planning and management
capacities through the introduction of yearly contracts between IPN and the
PIU based on yearly work programs to be approved by MOE and IDA. The
appointment of an administrator in IPN, and technical assistance offered by
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. to reorganize the accounting system both in IPN
and the PIU, strengthened their capabilities to implement the project.
5.04      A positive outcome of project implementation was the creation of a
civil works unit which was absorbed by the MOE at the end of the construction
period and became the Directorate of School Engineering. During the
construction period, supervision of civil works had to be strengthened with
the contracting of an outside consulting engineering firm, which helped
exercise quality control. Consistent with the space requirements of the new
reform curriculum, the project constructed schools with seven classrooms, thus
improving the teaching conditions in all levels of primary education in rural
areas. School design was also less elaborate than the design of schools
included in previous IDA-financed projects, and more adapted to the rural
setting. However, visits to project sites confirm that an adequata system for
school maintenance is still not in place, largely because of budgetary
constraints and the failure to assign high priority to preservation of
existing assets.
5.05      During a major political upheaval in 1986, civil unrest resulted in
the burning of some schools, and the stealing of classroom furniture and of
raterials and furniture used in the family education rooms.  Generally,
vandalism was performed by people not living in the communities and over the
opposition of residents benefitting from the schools in their village.  It is
believed that the revolt was not directed against the educational reform, but
an expression of opposition to the previous political leadership.  It should
be noted that some furniture and materials have been subsequently returned to
the schools.
5.06      Chronic lack of counterpart funds, delays in the implementation of
the civil works component, as well as the damage caused during the social
disturbances of early 1986, led to a reformulation of the project in June
1986. New construction was reduced to 81 classrooms in 11 schools instead of
180 classrooms in 45 schools, and rehabilitation, repair and expansion was
increased to cover 98 schools constructed under the First and Second Education
Projects. This decision also allowed construction costs to remain within the
limits of credit funds. By the end of project activities, new construction
was finished but only 84 schools were rehabilitated and two housing units (for
8 teachers instead of 18) were constructed.



5.07      Because of the judgement of the appraisal mission that the capacity
of MOE to manage procurement was wee';, it was decided to contract procurement
services from an external procurement agent. However, the option of using an
agent for the procurement of furniture and vehicles was not successful in this
case. The agent selected became bankrupt during the project period.
Furthermore, the agent was unable to ensure that the supplier of the furniture
would honor its obligation of subcontracting a local firm for the assembly of
the furniture delivered unassembled. In addition, the PIU was unable to
prepare detailed specifications of furniture reflecting local needs and taste;
consequently furniture provided by the lowest evaluated bidder were not well
adapted to the climate and did not follow the widely accepted traditional
design. In retrospect, greater attention to strengthening the Borrower's own
capacity for management of procurement would have been justified.
5.08      The accountants education program was fully and adequately ex-
ecuted. Accounting manuals were prepared and distributed according to
schedule; and training proceeded on schedule.
5.09      Project Risks.  Project risks were correctly identified and
realistically calibrated by the appraisal mission. Due to the nature of the
project, the timely availability of counterpart funds was of significant
importance. This risk materialized during implementation of the civil works
aspects. To overcome it, in June 1986 the Credit Agreement was amended to
increase the percentage of disbursements for construction from 65% to 99%.
The reform failed to receive broad public support and even within the
Government (the Presidency, the Cabinet, and MOE) it received different
degrees of support. Despite intensive supervision by IDA, which allowed for
thorough discussions on the issue with the Government, a major political
upheaval in 1986 and frequent turnover of MOE persornel affected continuity in
the policy of informing the public at large about the restructuring of the
education system. These circumstances ultimately slowed effective
implementation.
6. Maior Results of Proiect
6.01      Project Obiectives.  Continued MOE budget shortages and political
unrest obliged IDA and the Government to change quantitative objectives. With
the exception of a significant decrease in new school and housing
construction, the project objectives of assisting the Government with the
provision of furniture, new curricula and educational materials were met.
lNAGHEI received appropriate technical assistance and now offers a good
program for training accountants. Qualitative objectives were less
successful, as the reform program, particularly the Creole language aspect,
yet lacks a broad acceptance despite continuing assistance under the Fourth
Education Project.
6.02      Impact and Sustainability of the Project.  The conditions of
education in Haiti remain inferior to most countries of Latin America and the
Caribbean. However, educational development in such a resource-constrained
environment is a long-term process composed of many challenges. Despite the



- 8 -
controversy of the reform program, the project has made undeniable
improvements in coverage and quality in selected locations of Haiti.
Evaluation of the reform program, where it has been implemented under the most
favorable conditions (sufficient didactic materials, trained teachers and
adequate physical infrastructure), has contributed to dispel doubts about its
benefits. The project has also been successful in providing training and
retraining of school teachers. A Teacher Charter spelling out a career path
and salary levels differentiated by years of service and qualifications was
signed into law in October 1984, providing for modest salary increases for
qualified teachers. Ill-defined lines of authority between MOE and IPN
produced ineffective field supervision. More effective monitoring by MOE and
IPN could have enhanced execution. The reduction in school and housing
construction affected the impact of infrastructure development. However, the
decision to rehabilitate schools built under the First and Second Education
Projects and damaged during political unrest has proven beneficial to maintain
existing assets and to make available classrooms that otherwise would have
been neglected because of lack of funds.
6.03      The main constraint that limits the reform program is not its
philosophy but its translation into educational programs with full acceptance
by the public and public authorities. Moreover, commitment of the Government
to expanded coverage and improved quality of basic education in both political
and financial terms is needed. A broader base of implementation, including
the private sector, and decentralization of administrative responsibilities
would also facilitate further progress. Timely distribution of educational
materials is essential.
7. IDA's Performance
7.01      Major Strengths and Weaknesses.  During preparation, appraisal, and
a greater part of supervision IDA maintained the same team, with the help of
consultants from UNESCO. Supervision missions were fielded frequently and at
regular intervals (see Table 8 B), and included a task manager, an education
planner, and an architect. IDA staff contributed to the success of the
project through supportive working relationships and professional advice,
which also allowed for quality control. Lack of institutional memory caused
by chronic changes of Government officials were counterbalanced by the
stability of IDA's team and UNESCO's consultants.
7.02      Lessons Learned.  To overcome weaknesses in project programming and
execution, a system of joint IDA-Borrower annual work program and budgetary
reviews was introduced. This arrangement helped ensure achievement of annual
agreed targets, but project impact remained lower than expected at the time of
appraisal due to lack of counterpart funds. Furthermore, yearly contracts
between IPN and PIU based on work programs to be appi ved by MOE and IDA
reinforced IPN's planning capacity, although IPN capacity deteriorated after
1987. In addition, IDA should have asked for a clearer strategy to ensure the
support of a broader segment of the population to the reform during the
project preparation period, and as part of an effort of Hissemination of the
objectives and methods of the reform during implementat. i. A higher priority
should have been given in project design to develop loca. procurement



capacity, reinforce institutional development, and rely lese on external
agents. Continuity of IDA staff and UNESCO consultants during preparation,
appraisal, and supervision proved particularly effective in helping to sustain
project implementation, as turnover of MOE personnel was quite frequent.
6. Borrower Performance
8.01      Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  Chronic lack of counterpart funds
affected project implementation. Frequent turnover of people responsible for
project implementation and decision-makers at MOE did not allow for continuity
in policy implementation. Management and coordination between MOE and IPN was
weak, and work programs were not always adequately formulated or implemented.
MOE did not design a strategy to involve the population in the reform or to
disseminate for broad public understanding the rationale and objectives of the
reform, in particular the use of Creole as a vehicle to literacy. Technical
assistance at PIU helped strengthen its civil works supervision capacity and
its accounting procedures, as well as the accounting procedures of IPN. Lack
of coordination between implementing divisions delayed technical assistance
offered by UNESCO. The PIU managed, with technical assistance, to achieve a
new, more functional standard design for schools, more in accordance with the
requirements of space for teaching, administration and support under the
reform curriculum. Improved equipment specifications prepared by the PIU
could have avoided the selection of furniture that is less adapted to the
climate and does not follow the widely accepted traditional type. MOE should
have exercised better coordination with IPN to ensure hiring and appropriate
assignment of teachers retrained in the reform curriculum. The respective
roles of IPN pedagogical agents and MOE district inspectors needed to be
clarified and communicated to inspectors, directors and teachers. Budgetary
constraints, as well as failure to assign priorities, have prevented the
development of a well organized maintenance system.
8.02      Lessons Learned.  The major lesson learned is that a more concerted
strategy should have been adopted to involve interested sectors of the
population in formulating the objectives of the reform. The lack of political
support at the highest level of Government at the beginning of project
implementation may have also lessened commitment for the reform. Better
coordination between MOE and IPN, including clearer definition of respective
roles, would have enhanced project achievements. Also, the ability to prepare
technical specifications should have been strengthened.
9. Project Relationship
9.01      IDA-Borrower Relationships.  The continuity of IDA supervision
mission members was sufficient to develop with the PIU and other Government
officials close professional rel-tionships essential to support effective
project implementation. The major lesson learned here is that continuity and
composition of supervision missioni were an important element of project
success.



- 10 -
10. Consulting Services
10.01     Continued support of UNESCO strengthened the dialogue on the reform
with the Government. Pzoject specialists worked in the PIU and in IPN
(financed under UNDP country assistance in cooperation with UNESCO). UNESCO
technical assistance was devoted to curriculum development and teaching
materials. A private consultant was involved in setting up INAGHEI's computer
laboratory. The quality of the consultants was very good.
11. Proiect Documentation and Data
11.01     The loan documents for the project, including the Credit Agreement
dated January 14, 1983, the Amendment dated June 12, 1986, that reduced the
scope of the project for cost containment purposes, and the Staff Appraisal
Report were adequate for purposes of project execution and supervision.
11.02     Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Missicn.  Despite efforte
throughout 1989 by IDA staff to have the Borrower rrupare sufficient data for
the PCR, none was readily available when a mission arrived in the field on
December 5, 1989. However, the mission was able to discuss with staff
involved with the execution of the project (see Annex 2), and staff of the PIU
prepared Part II of the PCR and provided some statistical information included
in Part III.



- 11 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
12.01     The Third Educatior. Project, considered as a logical follow-up to
the First and Second Education Projects that constructed and equipped schools
in different departments of the country, was conceived to continue to build up
the school infrastructure needed as part of the reform of the education
system. The specific objectives of the project were: the extension of primary
education by the construction of new schools; the improvement of the
effectiveness and the quality of the education system; the strengthening of
the management capabilities of MOE; and the organization of an accountants
training program and final examination for the candidates to the Certified
Public Accounting title at INAGHEI. Furthermore, in order to strengthen the
professional teaching capabilities, assistance was given to the National
Institute of Professional Teaching through the program of teachers training
for professional schools.
12.02     In spite of the difficult socio-political context in which it was
implemented, the project nonetheless achieved its principal objectives.
However, during project implementation, some changes were introduced aiming at
tatter adapting the project to the evolving financial and educational
conditions of the country.
12.03     Taking into consideration that the Departments Nord and Artibonite
have benefitted from school construction under the First and Second Education
Projects (79 in total), under the Third Education Project it was decided to
concentrate construction in the Departments Sud, Grande Anse, and Sud-Est as
they had less coverage. It is important to note that, at the time, a school
mapping service was introduced in the Planning Directorate of MOE, and
reliable statistical information available in this Directorate helped to
orientate the decision makers in the selection of the sites for school
construction. This was a very positive element of the project, because
previously the selection of the communities was done on a routine basis based
on a rudimentary school mapping exercise.
12.04     In the School Departments of Grande Anse, Sud and Sud-Est, the
physical status of the schools that were utilized was very bad. A high
percentage of children in that region did not live in a community with a
school. When a school was available, it functioned in poor physical
conditions generally failing to meet minimal standards. It was with very much
satisfaction that this project was adopted by the population of said
Departments, who facilitated the process of making the sites and other
resources available for the construction of some schools.
12.05     At the beginning, the project was designed for 180 classrooms to be
built as follows: 56 in the Sud Department, 64 in Grande Anse, and 60 in Sud-
Est, with 45 housing facilities for the teachers. This plan was changed.
Eleven schools totalling 81 classrooms were built, of which 56 (equivalent to
eight schools) in Sud, 11 classrooms (two schools) in Nippes, Grande Anse, and
14 classrooms corresponding to a double school in the Sud-Est; and two



- 12 -
residences for the teachers in Sud, at Ti Coma and Saut Mathurine. Twenty
schools built under the First and Second Education Projects were finished, and
64 schools of said projects that were damaged during the incidents of February
1986 were repaired.
12.06     At the time of project inception, the Fundamental Education Program
consisted of 10 years divided into cycles of four, three and three years.
With the aim of adapting the new structures to this pattern, and in order to
receive the children of the two first cycles, the school designs of the First
and Second Education Projects prepared for four and six classrooms were
modified, and the Third Education Project generally provided schools with
seven classrooms. All the schools had space for a pre-school center and a
center for family education that received the young people of the community
and gave then, practical training that would allow them to function efficiently
in the community in the future. The pre-school centers in the First and
Second Education Projects were located in separate buildings built by the
community with the assistance of the Care Foundation. In the context of the
Third Education Project, the PIU built the buildings for such centers. The
Care Foundation financed the furniture and equipment.
12.07     The Third Project benefitted from the experience of the First and
the Second Projects in the aspects of civil works. The structure of the
buildings has been changed. The metallic framework of the roof and the doors
were replaced by elements made of wood; the windows by a more appropriate grid
and transparent sheets were added to the roof to facilitate lighting and air
circulation. Furthermore, the services of an external firm were requested to
do the supervision of the civil works. In the PIU, a special section for
supervision of civil works was organized which was mainly responsible for the
follow-up of the 20 schools to be finished, and worked in close relationship
with the external firm to inspect works and to make recormendations in order
to achieve better results. Most of the schools had been functioning since
1986. The buildings are generally in good conditions with the exception of
minor repairs to be done to the floors in some cases.
12.08     The proposal to use a procurement agent for the acquisition of
furniture was not welcome by all the Haitian executors in MOE. And, in fact,
the satisfaction that we expected to obtain by contracting the General
International Trading Company (GITCO) was not attained. First, the furniture
(chairs and desks for the children) were made of plywood that seems to offer
no guarantee of security and durability taking into consideration the
conditions of the rural habitat of Haiti. Second, GITCO did not hono= its
obligations with a local firm for assembly and transportation of the
furniture. The PIU had to pay the local firm to finish its work. The
furniture is still in good shape with some exceptions that can be handled by
the schools with limited budgetary consequences.
12.09     The qualitative aspects of which IPN was responsible, i.e.
production, experimentation, training, distribution of materials, financed by
the project, have been accomplished in a fully satisfactory way taking into
consideration the particularly difficult conjuncture in which they were
developed. Individual contracts on the basis of terms of reference covering



- 13 -
at least one year were established between the IPN and the PIU for each member
of such institution working for the project.
12.10     The strengthening of the implementation of the Reform Program by MOE
through a Committee for the Supervision and Coordination of the Reform was
initiated, but the committee worked only a few months. It was eventually
dissolved by ministerial decision as also occurred with the Curriculum
Committee during the implementation of the First and Second Education
Projects.
12.11     Activities relating to the improvement of the training of
accountants were well implemented. Manuals were distributed on time following
requests from INAGHEI to the PIU. Training courses were well organized.
12.12     The project completion date of June 1986 could not be met due to
constraints of the Haitian political environment and to delays in the
availability of Haitian counterpart funds. This is the reason why civil works
at Bas-Limbe and Dolan could not be carried out. Due to some supplementary
works to be performed in some schools and the need to build cisterns, the
closing date was changed to December 31, 1987, and the project unit ceased to
work for the project in July 1988. The credit of US$9.0 million was fully
disbursed. Concerning counterpart funds, of the US$1.0 million agreed upon,
only US$713,724.60 were received. Hence, the total cost of the project was
decreased by US$286,275.40. However, because of the exchange rate of the SDR
vis-a-vis the US dollar, IDA actually disbursed US$9,151,471.08, which gives a
total cost of the project as follows:
IDA                        US$9,151,471.08
Government of Haiti        USS  713.724.60
TOTAL                      US$9,865,195.68
The total amount used was US$9,849,438.21. An amount of US$15,757.47 is
deposited in an account in the Banque Nationale de Credit to be used to
prepare the project completion report.
12.13     It should be noted that IDA participation was very positive.  The
credit helped finance construction and repairs that allowed five thousand
children to attend school, and opened other services to young adults of the
community who make use of the school facilities for literacy classes,
community meetings, medical clinics, cooperative meetings, and other social
activities of the community.   In many cases, the school is a center for the
community.
12.14     If the implementation schedule was not totally respected and if the
program was modified, it was due to the financial constraints and the
difficult socio-political environment in Haiti. But implementation was also
constrained by the instability of the decision-making authorities. Key
officials of MOE, including those responsible for project execution, were
changed frequently during the implementation period. From 1982 to 1988 seven
Ministers were appointed in the MOE, each of them having their own
interpretation of an educational reform in Haiti. There have been periods of



- 14 -
hesitation and the expectation that by 1990 all the public and private schools
were going to function under a fundamental education system totally renewed
did not materialize; on the contrary, what we find at present is that much of
the infrastructure remains in bad shape, parents are not convinced of the
benefits of the program, teachers are, in many cases, badly trained or
insufficiently trained and unmotivated, many schools still function under the
traditional system.
12.15     In such a context of instability and discontinuity, the PIU acted as
an effective liaison and motivating force for project execution. It
guaranteed the continuity of the actions bringing the financial, material and
technical contributions that were necessary for the execution and eupervision
of the project. The PIU's relative stability also assured internal coherence
and respect for the norms of operation and requirements of IDA in project
management, accounting and auditing.
12.16     The Third Education Project has again demonstrated the benefits of
cooperation between the Government of Haiti and IDA. Returns on the
investment cannot be seen in the short term but its effects are evident on the
coverage of school attendance and in the improvement of the quality of the
education services. Furthermore, in spite of the recurren_. costs created by
the project, the needs for a Fourth Education Project were felt in order to
secure the yields of ongoing actions and protect achievenments of the Third
Project. However, the lessons learned from the implementation of this project
indicate that a greater margin for maneuver should have been given to the
people responsible for the project, and supported by clearer articulation of
key project indicators and outputs and local technical assistance.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED IDA CREDITS
Credit                            Year of
Title       Purpose               Approval   Status                Comments
0618-HA     Construction of       1976        Completed        Completion was
First       primary schools                   December 1981   one year behind
Education   and community                                      schedule due to
learning centers                                  lack of counter-
in rural and                                      part funds and
urban areas,                                      conatruction
three primary                                     delays.  The
teacher training                                  project was a
institutions and                                  catalyst for
revision of                                       modernizing the
teacher training                                  education system.
curriculum.
0770-HA     Expansion of          1978        Completed        The educational
Second      basic  education,                December 1984   components were
Education   secondary                                          o.n schedule;
vocational and                                    however, infra-
agricultural                                      structure was cne
training. Other                                   year behind
components                                        schedule due 'to
consist of                                        uneconomical
teacher training,                                 contracting
a radio component                                 arrangements,
and limited                                       which were
primary education                                 amended to a
reform.                                           system of
negotiated
contracts under
direct
supervision by
the project unit.



- 16 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date            Date            Date
Item                 Planned         Revised         Actual
Identification                 12/80                           06/80
(Executive Project
Summary)
Project Brief                  09/80           02/81, 06/81   08/81
Preparation                    03-04/81                        03/81
Appraisal Mission              06-07/81                        07/81
Post Appraisal                 11/81                           03/82
Credit Negotiations            03/82           09/82           09/82
Board Approval                 05/82           07/82           11/82
Credit Signature               06/82                           01/83
Credit Effectiveness           09/82           01/83           03/83
Project Completion             06/86                           03/87
Closing Date                   12/86                           12/87
Closing of Credit Account                                      02/88
Comments on Timetable: At the time of project identification, 68%
of rural school-age children did not participate in primary education. The
education system was inefficient and education inputs (funds spent, teacher
qualifications, curriculum, learning facilities, etc.) and outcomes were of
poor quality, as indicated by high student grade repetition and dropout
rttes. Starting as early as grade 1, repetition rates were 31% for rural
&reas and 191 in urban areas, with dropout rates of 13% in rural areas and
142 in urban areas. Although these percentages decrease toward the end of
the vrimary grade cycle, it was estimated that 59% of the urban students
and 76% of the rural students drop out before they attain full literacy.
No legal instrument existed to support the far-reaching education
reform, i.e., new school cycle, universalization of a 10-year basic
education program and curriculum development, restructuring of
decentralization of Education administration and institution of Creole as
the language of instruction. However, a decree was paseed by the
Government on March 30, 1982 for the introduction of the planned country-
wide reform which was scheduled to begin in September 1982.



- 17 -
Table 3At CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA FY            1983       1984      1985       1986       1987      1988
Appraisal Estimates        0.90       2.25      4.50       9.00
Actual                     0.97       3.00      4.84       7.28       8.51       9.15
Actual as S of
Estimktes             107.78    133.33    107.56       80.89     94.56    101.67
Date of Final Disburs.    February 3, 1988
Time Line of Planned, Revised and Actual Disbursement Schedules
TABLE 3 B
Tlme Line of Planned. Revised and Actual
Disbursement Schedules
(in us MiliHon)
10
86
7
6
23        /
1! 
1983        1984        1985        19861       1987        1988
-   Appraisal Estimate      Aotual          Revied 01/01/84
-0- Revised UG/30/86    Revised 03/31/86



- 18 -
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMP,.ENTS
Planned        Actual          Months of
Project Components                  Completion     Completion        Delay
Civil Works                    06/86           06/88              24
Furniture                      06/86           10/87              16
Equipment                      06/86           10/87              16
Staff                          06/86           06/86
Local Consultants              06/86           12/87              30
Foreign Consultants            06/86           08/87              14
Education Materials            06/86           06/86
Project Administration         06/86           06/86
School Mapping                 12/84           05/83           Advanced
Comments:
Due to the lack of counterpart   u';2.c.7 and the difficult socio-
political situation of the country since 153x  1hat paralyzed many
activities in the fielO, the schedule fo- th?v implementation of certain
activities could not be respected.
There was a 24 mionths delay in the c2v:1.l works component. The
works initially consisted in the construction c  180 classrooms, but
circumstances obliged to change this and only Ui zlassrooms were
constructed, schools that were damaged during icoco-political upheavals of
February 1986 were rehabilitated, and schools coastructed under the First
and Second Education Projects were repaired.
Due to the same reasons there were delays in the distribution of
furniture and equipment for the schools by the firm in charge. The MOE
decided to give to the schools temporary furniture belonging to schools of
the First and Second Education Projects while waiting for the distribution
of the final furniture.
There were delays in implementation in other areas with the
exception of the production of educational material and the school mapping
exercise that was finalized 19 months ahead of Schedule.



- 19 -
Table 5A: ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS
ORIGINAL             ACTUAL
CATEGORY                       ALLOCATION            DISBURSEMENTS
----------- in SDRs -------------
(1)      Civil Works                       930,000            1,791,711.29
(2)      Building materials                560,000               730,989.05
(3)      Furniture and                     930,000              310,453.68
equipment; paper and
printing for textbooks
and learning materials
(4)      Consultants' and experts'       3,700,000            5,125,256.58
services; training;
operating costs and staff
services
(5)      Refunding of Project              510,000               377,824.28
Preparation Advance
(6)      Initial Deposit in                470,000                63,765.12
Special Account
(7)      Unallocated                     1.300.000                     0.00
Total                      8,400,000            8,400,000.00



- 20 -
Table 1 l:   PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$)
Planned Credit Agreomnt           Actual Project Costs
Source of Funds          Total        Total                 Total       Total
S                                 I
IDA                   9,000.000          90             9,151,471.08       93
Gorerment            1.000 000           10               7131724.60        7
Total      10,000,000          100            9,865,195.68       100
u.muinuu.     unW            =*mumumuau==       emu.
UNDP/UUSCO
Participation           U0 000                                860.00
Mt UNSCO financed consultants under their country program assistance.
Comments:
The total cost of the project vas estimted at SDR 8,400,000 or
US$9,000,000 financed by IDA and US$1,000,000 financeo by the Goveriment
of Haiti. Due to the exchange rate of the SDR to the dollar, IDA
disbursed US$9,151,471.08 and the Goverme nt of Haiti only disbursed
US$713,724.60 as indicated above.
The total amout disbursed under the project vas USS9,849,438.21.
An amount of US$15,757.47 Is deposited in the Danqus Nationala de Credit
to be used in the preparation of the project completion report.



- 21 -
Table 6 : PROJECT RESULTS - DISTRIBUTION OF SCHOOLS
-------------Appraisal 3tc     te. ----------
Tachehr       CClaaroas             Student Places
Schools Housing   Now       Ropl.    Total        Total
Retion
Sud-Eat             10       10         20      20        40           2,000
Sud                 13       13         28      24        52           2,600
Grand'Anso          U        ii         44      a4    8     8          4400
Total               45       45         92      88        180          9,000
- -------------------Actual--------
Teacher       Clasroo.              Student Places
Schools Housing   New      Repl.    Total         Total
Sud-Ent              1                  14                14             700
Sud                  8       2                  21        56           2,800
Grand'Ane            2       _           1       _         1             550
Total               11       2          25      21        81           4,050



Table 63,  PROJECT RESULTS - TEKTBOOS AND TEACES GUIDES PlODUCED BY THE NAITIOUL PEDtAOGICAL InSTITUTE
let Grad.               2nd Grad.                3rd Grade                4th Grad.               5th Grade               6th Grade                 Total
Teachers                Teacher.                 T.achers                 Teachers                Tebcher.                Teachers
Textbook.   Gulde.    Textbook.    GuLdes         Textbook.   Guides      Textbooks    Guides    Textbooks    Guide.       Textbook.  Guides        Planned   Actual
Planed       21.100 *                                                                                                                                         21.100
1982183
Actual                   24,000        4,500      16,000       45,815       4,800          350      2,800                                                                103,665
4,000 **                   800 e
Planned      14,000 *                             3.450                   22.500       200,000     11,400       40,500     14,800                              306.650
1993164
Act:al                                             3,450                   22,500      182.000      5.300       13.500      3.700                                        230,450
Plamed       15.200 *                  1,800                   31,500                  350,000     12,100      228,000     19.200        13.500     3.850      689,300
12.500                                                                    1.500 7th   150 7th
1964185
Actual                                 1.600                   31,500                  310,000     11,900      119.000     14.000        11.500     2.150                514,350
12.500                                                                    0-7th     0-7th
Planed                                                                                 143,000     14,000                                                       157.000
1965185
Actual                                                                                 119.620      10,650                                                               130.270
Planed       50,300 C                  1,800      3,450        44,000     22,500       693,000     37,500      268,500     34,000        15,000     4,000    1,174.050
Total
Actual                   28,000        6.300     :0 250        89,615      27,300      611.970     30.650      132.500     17,700        11.500     2.150                976,135
Notea   etlteted figure. based aaid*-_moiree and progress reports kept by tbh  Project lupleaentation Unit. Actual production he.s aimd down  ear tbh  years due to
delays La construction work that finlly led to a reduction on new school construction, and lose than expected  ber of echoola adoptin  the rafor. progrm.
Nowevr, in  dditio  to the total umber of book. ldicated in the tables, 65,000 workbooks wre distributed.
C iguree based n Appraisal Report of November 2, 1982, other planned figure. provided by Goverment.
**  4,600 printlg plates are lueluded in the total..



- 23 -
Table 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Compliance
Section       Covenant                   Deadline          Status of Compliance
3.01 (b)      Strengthen PIU by the    none                In full compliance
addition of two           specified
assistant educators,
one assistant
accr.,untant and a
procurement assistant
3.01 (c)      Periodic consultation
with the Association
on the:
(a) proposed budget       Annually in       In full compliance
allocation                March
(c) adequacy of funds    Before
August 15
3.02          Employment of              No date           In full compliance
consultants up to 95      specified
staff months of
foreign specialists
and 66 staff months
of local specialists
3.06          Construction of new        No date           In full compliance.
schools on sites          specified         Criteria taken into
chosen on basis of                          consideration by the
criteria acceptable                         School Mapping Unit.
to the Association
3.07          Definition and             Textbooks         Prices for grades 1, 2
3.08          implementation of          to be             kept within acceptable
price control             provided by       limits.  Better
mechanisms for the        Aug. 1 of         distribution systems
production of school      each year         established
books and
distribution of
textbooks in grades 1
to 3 of schools
involved in the
education reform
3.09          Establish curriculum
and examination
procedures for
accountants:
(a) first standard        Sept. 1,          Law amended to extend
examination               1984              deadline for compliance
by one year to 1985.



- 24 -
Covenant                  Compliance
:ion                                  Deadline          Status of Compliance
(b) Employ one            No date           In full compliance
consultant                specified
(c) set examination       July 1,           Decree on curriculum
fee and publish           1983               issued Aug. 83.
the standard                                Teachers were trained in
curriculum                                  use of curriculum
(c)      Implement adequate         No date           In compliance
auditing procedures       specified



- 25 -
Table 8At USE OF IDA RESOURCES
Staff Input.
Staff Weeks
Stage of
?roiect Cycle                Planned         Revised        Final
?rep. to Appraisal
Departure                                                29.49
'ppraisal through
Board Approval                                            41.31
legotiations Through
Board Appraoval                                            5.25
-upervision                                                 37.91
?CR                            8.0            10.0           7.21
TOTAL                                                 121.17
,__________________________________________________________________________
uomments:
Planned and revised otaff weekc are unavailable due to loss of
ile materials during IDA reorganization.



- 26 -
TbLe 8B: MISSIONS
Stage of                 Month/    No. of    Days in   Specilaizat.
Prolect Cycle            Le         Persons    field    Represente  */
1. Identification        12/80      2           8.0       GE,E
2. Prep ration           3-4/81    3           51.0       A,E,GE
3. Appraisel             7/81       4          68.0       A,E,GE,S
4. Post Appraisal        3/82       2          au         A,S
TotaL                                         147.0
Performance    Type of
_Status b/      _pro. c/
F  N  I  S
Supervision I            05/83      2         10.5        A,S            2  1  2  1       CF
Supervision II           10/83      3         10.0        A,S,EP         2  2  1  2       CF,M,P
Supervision III          01/84      2         16.0        A,S            3  2  2  2       CF,M
Supervision IV           3-4/84    3          10.0        A,S,EP         3  2  2  2       CF,M,SA
Supervision V            05/84      2         23.0        A,EP           3  2  2  2       CF,M,P
Supervision VI           02/85      1          7.0         FA            Not Rated       AS
Supervision VII          03/85      2         15.0        A,EP           2  2  2  2       D,M
Supervision VIII         05/85      1         10.0        S              3  3  2  2       F,M
Supervision IX           10/85      2         24.0        EP,S           3  2  2  2       F,CF,
Supervision X            04/86      2         24.0        EP,S           2  2  2  2       SA
Supervision XI           08-09/86  1           6.0        A              2  1  2  1      D
Supervision XII          11/87      2         12           E,E            1  1  2  1      D
Total SPN                                    167.0
msss
PCR                      12/89      1          5.0        OA
.3.3.
j/  A  a Architect; E a Economist; EP * Educational PLareer; FA * Fininclal AnaLyst;
GE a General Educator; S a SocioLogist, OA a Operatiors Assistant
y   F a  Availability of Furds; N * Project Management; I a Development Inpact; S * OveraLL Status
LI  AS * Audit System; CF * Counterpert Funads; 0 . Disbursements; F a Financial; X   Management;
P a  Procurement; SA * SpeciaL Account



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Schools Constructed and Rehabilitated and Housina Facilities
Name of the School                District            No. of Classrooms
1st. Phase: 11 new schools
St. Michel du Sud                 Miragoane                  7
Fond des Negres                   Miragoane                  4
Ti Coma                           Aquin                      7
Cherettes                         Aquin                      7
Cavaillon                         Aquin                      7
Laurent                           Cayes                      7
Guilloux-Torbeck                  Cayes                      7
Melon                             Cayes                      7
Mersan                            Cayes                      7
Saut Mathurine                    Cayes                      7
Jacmel                            Jacmel                    14
2nd. Phase: 20 schools rehabilitated (First Education Project)
Hatte Desdunes                    Gonaives                   4
Aux Sources                       Gonaives                   4
La Tapie                          Grande Saline              4
Dolan                             Terre Neuve                4
Daryanne                          Terre Neuve                4
Fosse-St-Jean                     Terre Neuve                4
Ka Philippe                       Terre Neuve                4
Grand Rac                         Pte. Riv. Artibonite       4
Las Cidras                        St. Michel Att.            4
Nan Guillaume                     St. Michel Att.            4
Bas de Sault                      St. Michel Att.            4
Cana                              Ouanaminthe                4
Welsh                             Ouanaminthe                4
La Souffriere                     Limbe                      4
Fond Lagrange                     Borgne                     4
Port-Margot                       Borgne                     4
St-Michel                         Acul du Nord               4
Bas-Limbe                         Limbe                      4
Duty                              Acual du Nord              4
Roches Plates                     Trou du Nord               4



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Name of the School                District            No. of Classroomi
3rd. Phae: 64 Schools Rehabilitated (First and Second Education Projects)
Fort St-Michel                    Cap Haitien                 6
Breteau                           Ode. Riv. Nord              4
Bonamy                            Gde. Riv. Nord              4
Gde. Riv. Nord                    Gde. Riv. Nord              6
St-Raphael                        Plaine du Nord             12
Robillard                         Limonade                    4
Campeche                          Limonade                    4
Dericourt                         Limonade                    4
Dereral                           Limonade                    4
Bois de Lance                     Limonade                    4
Dubourg                           Limonade                    4
Leroux Pilette                    Trou du Nord                4
Dubuisson                         Trou du Nord                4
Savane au Camp                    Trou du Nord                4
Leroux Cachiman                   Trou du Nord                4
Bilee                             Marmelade                   4
Tarvisee                          Marmelade                   6
Platon                            Marmelade                   4
St-Michel Att.                    St-Michel Att.              6
Trou Jn-Pierre                    St-Michel Att.              4
L'Attalaye                        St-Michel Att.              6
Petites Desdunes                  Gonaives                    4
Bassin                            Gonaives                    4
L'Estere                          Gonaives                    4
Souvenance                        Gonaives                    4
Bardon Marchand                   Gonaives                    4
Poteau                            Gonaives                    6
Docine St-Martin                  Gonaives                    4
Mapou Lagon                       Gonaives                    4
Mapou Rollin                      Ennery                      4
Lacroix                           Gonaives                    4
Hatte Grammont                    Dessalines                  4
Hatte Chevreau                    Dessalines                  4
Niel                              Dessalines                  6
Rossignol                         Grande Saline               4
Chevreau Lombard                  Grande Saline               4
Jean Denim                        Pte. Riv. Art.              4
Payen                             Verrettes                   4
Savane Tapion                     Verrettee                   4
Moreau Drouet                     Verrettem                   4
Hirebalais                        Mirebalais                  6



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
Name of the School                District            No. of Classrooms
Crete Brulee                      Mirebalais                  6
Ville Bonheur                     Mirebalais                  4
Los Pinos                         Lascahobas                  6
Croix Fer                         Belladere                   6
Savanette Cabral                  Thomonds                    6
Thomonde                          Thomonde                    6
Bassin Zim                        Hinche                      4
Savane Haleine                    Maisaade                    6
Maiseade                          Maissade                    6
Fortuna Guery                     Port-au-Prince             12
Republique Argentine
(Sans Fil)                     Port-au-Prince             12
Morne St-Georges                  Aquin                       6
St-Louis du Sud                   Aquin                      12
Sulon                             Aquin                       6
Dumarsais Estime                  Cayes                       8
Michel Lazarre                    Cayes                       8
Roseaux                           Rossaux                     6
Marfranc                          Jeremie                    12
Marie Kerotte                     Moron                       6
La Hatte                          Dame Marie                  6
Desormeaux                        Dame Marie                  6
Baryadelle                        Anse d'Hainault             6
Appl. de Bigot
(Ka Georges)                   Gonaives                    6
Housing Facilities
Ti Coma                           Aquin
Saut Mathurine                    Cayes



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Participant on Comoletion Mission and Peoole Met
IDA
Maria Victoria Lister, LA3HR
Ministry of Education
Jean St. Fort, Director General
Jerome Jean-Noel, Programming Director
Proiect ImDlementation Unit
Joseph Herns Henry, Director of Programs
Denis Cadet, Chief, Education Section
Claire Ange Saintil, Chief, Procurement Section
National Pedaaoaical Institute
Amary Joseph Noel, Director General
Others
Roger Delmas, ex Project Director
Juliette Nicolas, ex Project Administrator
Mireille Merove-Pierre, Auditor



