Document of
The World Bank                            I ILE ICO'OF
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3363-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS SOC IAT ION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$9.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
November 5, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only k - ,
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
G 1.00 = US$0.20
C 5.00 = US$1.00
G 1 million = US$200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                             British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                  3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                           35.32 cubic feet (ft3)
264.2 gallon (gal)
6.290 barrels (bbl)
1 kg                                         2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg)   =              1.100 short tons (sh. ton)
Glossary of abbreviations
CIDA        =      Canadian International Development Association
DEN         =      Department of National Education
GOH         =      Government of Haiti
IDB         =      Inter-American Development Bank
INAGHEI     =      National Institute for Management Administration and
Higher International Studies
IPN         =      National Pedagogical Institute
KfW         =      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
PIU         =      Project Implementation Unit
PPF         =      Project Preparation Facility
UNCDF       =      United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO      =      United Nations Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF      =      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       =      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Haiti
Amount:                   SDR 8.4 million (US$9.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:    The project would continue to support the basic edu-
cation reform and increase access to primary educa-
tion in rural areas through (i) a school mapping
exercise to determine school locations; (ii) the
construction of 180 classrooms and corresponding
teacher accomodations; (iii) revision and testing of
curricula; (iv) assistance in developing textbooks
and teacher guides; (v) training and retraining of
teachers, school directors and other supervisory
personnel; (vi) provision of equipment, furniture,
office supplies and motorcycles for the pedagogical
supervision unit;-(vii) financial support, equipment
and office supplies for the Education Reform
Committee; (viii) monitoring a.nd evaluation studies
and (ix) technical assistance to develop a standard
curriculum and examination procedures for a Govern-
ment-endorsed certificate in accountancy.
Risks:                   No major risks are envisaged.  However, since a
fundamental reform of basic education is a matter of
long duration, education policy adjustments might
occur. In case such adjustments should fundamentally
change the qualitative and quantitative targets of
the reform, a review of the project's objectives
might be"indicated. Also, educational development.
targets in the new Five-Year Development Plan
(1982-1986) may prove to be too ambitious due to
limited counterpart funds, and revisions may become
necessary in later years. The Education Reform
Committee and the Planning Department of the Ministriy
of Education assisted by frequent IDA supervision
missions intend to monitor these risks carefully in
order to take corrective measures as soon as imple-
mentation delays should show up.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Estimated Costs: *
ITEM                           Local         Foreign        Total
…------------US$'000       …
1.   Access and Enrollment
School Location Study                      70              88          158
Primary School Construction             1,242           1,421        2,663
Subtotal                                1,312           1,509        2,821
2.   Quality of Education
Curriculum Development                    268             163          431
Educational Materials                     205             604          809
Training Programs                       1,446             465        1,911
Pedagogical Supervision                   368             187          555
Subtotal                                2,287           1,419        3,706
3.   Education Management
Education Committee                        45               2           47
Project Administration                    448             243          691
Monitoring and Evaluation                 107              51          158
Accountant's Training                       8              72           80
Subtotal                                  608             368          976
Baseline Costs                          4,207           3,296        7,503
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                353             214          567
Price Contingencies                1,063              808        1,871
Project Cost (excluding
UN Technical Assistance)           5,623            4,318        9,941
UN System Techncial Assistance            124             736          860
Land Acquisition                           58              --           58
Total Project Cost                      5,805            5,054      10,859
*    Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties, from which the project is
exempt.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                          Local       Foreign       Total
…--------- US$ 000 - …
IDA                                4,681         4,319        9,000
Government                            999          -            999
UNDP/UNESCO                           124          736          860
Total                                            5,055       10,859
Estimated Disbursements:                 ---------- US$'000 --------
IDA FY                              1983     1984     1985    1986
Annual                         900    1,350    2,250   4,500
Cumulative                     900    2,250    4,500   9,000
Appraisal Report:   Report No.  3752a-HA dated November 2, 1982
Rate of Return:      Not Applicable.
Map:                 IBRD No. 16057R (attached in Annex).






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAT'ION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON AL
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO 'HE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 8.4 million (US$9.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a Third
Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 14
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 25, 1982, was Report No. 3931-HA entitled "Economic
Memorandum on Haiti". Its main findings, updated and complemented with
findings of recent missions to Haiti, are summarized below. Relevant social
and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti's GNP per capita stood at US$270 in 1931, the lowest level in
the Western Hemisphere. The dire poverty of this country is reflected in
data collected in 1976 showing that almost 75 percent of the population lived
under conditions of absolute poverty; the rate of infant mortality was about
150 per thousand live births; average life expectancy was 51 years; there
were low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastro-enteric
diseases account for over half of the deaths in the country) and the adult
illiteracy rate was about 80 percent. Open unemployment is about 16 percent
and underemployment might have reached 60 percent of the labor force in
1979. Income is distributed unequally: in 1976, the lop 0.4 percent of the
population absorbed 43.7 percent of national income, whiile more than 80
percent of the people had an average per capita income of less than US$100
per year. Extreme rural poverty and high pressure on agricultural land (350
inhabitants per sq km) and the lack of development of other sectors resulted,
in recent years, in an acceleration of migration within and out of the
country.
4.        High mortality and migration have so far slowed population growth
(1.8 percent per annum during the 1975-80 period), but the natural desire on
the part of the Government is to improve health conditions. Thus, health
improvements and growing difficulties imposed on emigration to neighboring
countries will aggravate the already unfavorable relation of resources to
population and Haiti will increasingly suffer from pressure of a steadily
growing population. The Government is aware of this painful situation and is
willing to initiate a constructive dialogue with the Association and other
bi- and multilateral agencies on the subject.
1/   Reprinted substantially from PR No. 3264-HA of June 14, 1982 for a Third
Power Project in Haiti. Paras. 2; 4; 9; 12 and 14 have been amended.
All figures refer to the Haitian fiscal year ending September 30.



5.        Haiti's GDP expanded at an average annual rate of 4.4 percent or
2.7 percent per capita during the 1970-80 period. The pattern of growth,
however, was subject to cyclical fluctuations ranging from 5,4 percent in
1980 to minus 2.1 percent in 1981. These fluctuations were influenced by the
performance and weight of agriculture, subject to the vagaries of weather and
external markets. Manufacturing and construction have shown a more even
performance.
6.        Between 1970 and 1980, agriculture provided employmaent for about
63 percent of the labor force, contributed on average 38 percent to GDP, and
grew at an average annual rate of 1.7 percent. The sector--which provides
most of Haiti's exports--is characterized by extremely low productivity. Its
weak performance is reflected in declining agricultural exports, which
decreased by 1.3 percent annually (in real terms) between 1970 and 1980.
Furthermore, the rapid disappearance of Haiti's forests and ithe resulting
soil erosion are reducing the availability of wood, the counltry's prime
source of energy, and leading to a shrinkage of the area of productive land.
In an effort to halt these trends, the Government has recentLy revived
erosion control and forestry programs. It also has initiated programs to
introduce improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee planitations, restore
the major irrigated systems and develop agro-industries.
7.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public util-
ities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with average
annual growth rates of 6.8 percent, 14.1 percent and 9 percent respectively.
Their combined share in GDP represented 22 percent (in 1981) and their con-
tribution to GDP growth during the eleven year period was of the order of
42 percent of the GDP increment. The manufacturing sector owes much of its
expansionary drive to the export processing industries--which have a strong
potential for further development-- and to a rapid increase in output of con-
struction materials. Growth of locally manufactured products, other than
construction materials, for the domestic market was necessarily limited by
the thinness of this market, a reflection, in turn of the low income levels
of most of the population. Construction, on the other hand, was fueled by
public investment in infrastructure.
8.        Gross investment reached 13 percent of GDP in 1981, compared to
10 percent in 1970. This progress was entirely attributable to the public
sector, whose share of total investment has increased from one-fifth in 1970
to over 50 percent in 1981, as a result of an average expansion rate of
10 percent per year in real terms. The Government's investment strategy, as
stated in its two Five-Year Development Plans (1972-76 and 1977-81), was
geared to the decentralization of economic activity in favor of rural areas
and provincial towns. However the Government's decision in 1980 to carry out
three major investment projects not included in the Five-Year Plan, has
lately displaced or delayed planned investments and has distorted priorities
somewhat.
9.        The Haitian Government has prepared an inventory of public sector
development projects for the 1982-86 period as part of a new Five-Year
Development Plan which is being evaluated by the Bank. Agriculture, trans-
port, and energy rank high both in the number of projects and in the resour-
ces allocated to them, as was the case in the previous five-year period.
Education, ranking fourth in investment expenditures allocation, is expected
to be further strengthened by larger allocation of recurrent expenditures.



-3-
These priorities are in line with the country's most urgent needs for expan-
sion of the productive sectors and development of basLc infrastructure to
support them; however, planned investments in soil conservation and refores-
tation may still be on the low side.
10.       The mobilization of domestic resources for iLnvestment is hampered
by a low average income level and institutional weaknesses in the capital
market and in public finance. During the 1979-81 period, gross national
savings (GNS) amounted to only 2.6 percent of GNP in spite of a more flexible
interest rate policy starting 1980. Foreign assistance, therefore, plays a
major role in supplementing domestic savings and in increasing the Govern-
ment's expenditure capabilities, as some two-thirds of public investment are
financed by foreign lending and aid.
11.       As regards public sector savings, the Government of Haiti has
undertaken during the period 1979-81 a major reorganization of fiscal manage-
ment: public revenues have been integrated into the Government's budget; the
Treasury now handles all Central Government expenditures; tax collection is
being consolidated and parafiscal functions have been removed from the Regie
du Tabac (State Trading Monopoly); sound accounting procedures are being
established in all public institutions; customs duties have been consolidated
and rates on luxury goods have been raised; new taxes have been imposed on
the lottery and on international communications and the income tax law was
amended to improve equity and elasticity of income taxation.
12.       While there have been significant gains towards achieving the goals
of the fiscal reform, recent information suggests that resistance to these
measures remains: this is especially true of the business community's react-
ion to customs tariff increases and income tax adjustments. In addition,
large extra-budgetary expenditure authorizations in 1980 and 1981 have made
expectations of a return to fiscal equilibrium uncertain. The public sector
deficit increased from 7.9 percent of GDP in 1979 to around 8.4 percent in
1981 and increasing recourse was made to central bank financing.
13.       Haiti's coffee crop in 1981 was particularly poor.  This, coupled
with a drop in its world price and a decline in bauxite export revenues,
resulted in an overall decline of Haiti's merchandise exports of 28 percent
as compared with the level achieved in 1980. These low export revenues and
the demand pressures generated by the domestic financing of fiscal deficit
generated a foreign exchange crisis. Furthermore, Haiti's drawing rights
under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) established with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) for the period 1979-81, were interrupted as ceilings on
net domestic bank credit to the public sector and on net domestic assets of
the monetary authorities were exceeded.
14.       As the foreign exchange situation was becoming more critical, the
Haitian Authorities signed a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF for the period
June 1982 to September 1983. Under the conditions of this Arrangement,
public expenditures and the arrears in the payment for vital imports
(petroleum, wheat) -are being reduced and a new general indirect sales tax was
approved. Also, measures are being taken to improve tax collection and an
in-depth audit of the Central Bank is presently under way. Up to this
September 1982, the conditions of the Arrangement have been fully met.



-4-
15.       The continuing high proportion of grants and concessionary loans
extended to Haiti has helped the country maintain its debt-service ratio at
an estimated 9.4 percent for 1981. The rising level of private foreign
investment and of supplier's credits, however, will bring with it larger
factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation and interest payments.
16.       The ability of Haiti to maintain an acceptable growth rate in the
future will depend on successful efforts to improve substantially the produc-
tivity of the agricultural sector and to continue diversifying the economic
structure, especially into export-oriented industry. Because of the limited
capacity to generate adequate levels of savings, Haiti will have to continue
relying heavily on foreign savings to finance a high proportion of the costs
of carefully selected development and institution building projects. More-
over, such external assistance should continue being extended on very conces-
sionary terms in view of Haiti's low income level, modest prospects for
export growth and increasing dependence on imported energy. But the terms,
size and timing of the external assistance will depend very much on Haiti's
own efforts in exercising fiscal and monetary prudence, in mobilizing
domestic resources and putting them to good use.
17.       The Association and the IMF are closely involved in Haiti's effort
to improve fiscal performance and economic management in general. The
Association has been requested by Haiti to establish a sub-group within the
Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. IDA is extending
assistance to the authorities in the preparation of longer term plans to
mobilize the country's scarce resources for economic development, including
the priorities of public investments, identification of bottlenecks in
project execution and, more generally, institution building efforts. The
staff of the IMF will continue to closely monitoring Haiti's performance in
the months to come, and if the progress made in recent months is sustained,
the IMF would be in a position to give additional financial assistance to
Haiti.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
18.       The Bank Group began its operations in Haiti with a loan for a
highway project in 1956. Since then, 16 IDA projects and one IFC investment
(US$1.5 million) for an integrated poultry project have followed. As of
September 30, 1982, the total of credits outstanding was US$175.2 million of
which as of the same date, US$78.2 million were undisbursed. Annex II
includes a summary statement of Bank Group operations and IFC investments in
Haiti and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Bank Group loans and
credits have financed six highway/transport projects mainly serving the
Northern region; three power projects helping to increase the country's
electricity generation and distribution capacity; two education projects
emphasizing primary school construction and qualitative improvements at the
primary level; one water supply project for smaller locations outside the
capital; one rural development project in the Northern region; one rural
rehabilitation project designed to help compensate damages caused by a severe
hurricane; one port development project predominantly improving small coastal
port installations all around the country; one industrial credit facility,
and one pilot forestry project.



- 5 -
19.       Overall, project implementation and disbursement performance is
satisfactory. However, on several occasions, lack of counterpart funds has
delayed disbursements. The establishment of working funds in recent projects
has brought improvement in this respect. Nevertheless, the Association is
carefully monitoring the capacity of absorption of the country for externally
assisted development investments. The Government of Haiti (GOH) has
requested the major external aid agencies to finance temporarily a larger
share of local costs of projects. In case the major agencies should agree to
the Haitian request, a larger number of high priority projects could be
continued without delays or reductions, or started as planned, and the
country would still be able to satisfy the conditions of the fiscal aLusterity
program agreed with the International Monetary Fund in order to help overcome
the present economic difficulties.
20.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in Haiti.  Among
the most important are the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Canadian Interna-
tional Development Agency (CIDA) and the assistance agencies of the Federal
Republic of Germany and France. IDB retains a diverse program in Haiti both
regionally and sectorally. In addition to transportatLon, agriculture and
energy, projects in health, education, industry, urban improvement, water
supply and port improvement are now being implemented or planned for imple-
mentation in the near future. The USAID program is imlplemented in collabora-
tion with private volunteer groups and is concentrating on increasing agri-
cultural production, improving rural infrastructure and employment genera-
tion, conservation and restoration of natural resources, health care and the
strengthening of public and private development institutions. An important
aspect of the USAID program is the sale of foodstuffs to the GOH, supported
with long-term, low interest credits.  CIDA has been supporting a rural
development project in the Southern Peninsula and is now undertaking a review
of its country's lending strategy.  CIDA is participating in the second IDA
power project and remains committed to supporting the iinstitutional develop-
ment of public and private organizations within Haiti. This objective is
reflected in training and technical assistance projects now underway with the
Ministries of Education and Agriculture and the National Institute of Admin-
istration. The Federal Republic of Germany is providing technical and finan-
cial assistance for a rural development project in the Gonaives Plain and for
power sector development all over the country. Together with France, Germany
is providing substantial technical assistance for the IDA rural development
project in the Northern region. Likewise, the co-financing of water supply
and of the IDA port development projects is included in the German program.
France has financed road construction and currently sponsors two integrated
rural development projects, educational planning and research, a multitude of
training programs and a maritime lighting project. Also, France is financing
components of the third IDA power project and may become engaged in forestry
development.



-6-
IDA Strategy
21.       The lending strategy for Haiti is under review.  It appears, how-
ever, that the present strategy of supporting the improvement and expansion
of basic infrastructure in power, rural development, reforestation, educa-
tion, urban development and of creating employment in the directly productive
sectors will keep its merits and efficiency in the near future. The present
IDA lending program reflects the priorities of the national development plans
and is sensitive to the current and future programs of other public
assistance agencies operating in Haiti, and all IDA projects always would
include substantial institution-building components.
22.       Under the current IDA program, the ongoing Rural Development
Project provides for the preparation of a second project whic1h would extend
the scope of the Regional Development Agency's program to additional crops
and areas of the Northern Region. An urban improvement project now under
preparation, is expected to help the poorer segment of the population through
upgrading of a produce market in Port-au-Prince and sites and services
assistance in Port-au-Prince and in provincial towns and a further power
project will help developing the hydro-electric potential of the country.
Sector reviews are being undertaken or will start soon in agriculture,
industry, forestry, education, and population and will lead to the
identification of projects in these fields.
23.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and
outstanding came to 25.6 percent as of October 1, 1981. The Bank Group's
share of external public debt service was about 2.8 percent and will decrease
during the coming years.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
24.       General education in Haiti had a late start.  Traditionally,
education had been largely an ecclesiastical function and directed to
developing the urban elite. By reasons of history, French pedagogical values
and methods dominate the education system and are particularly visible at the
secondary level. During the 1920s, under the iufluence of tbLe United States,
a considerable number of farm schools were established in which peasants
could learn to read and write and receive practical instruction in agri-
culture. These units were later absorbed by the regular primary school
system. During more recent years, the principal benchmarks in educational
development have been the establishment of the University of Haiti (1944) and
the submission of most educational activities at all levels to the
supervision of the Ministry of Education (1978). Private education has
always been and continues to be important although subsidizirg of privately-
operated schools has blurred the division line. In 1980, private education
accounted for 52 percent of primary and 79 percent of secondary enrollments.



-7-
Structure and Administration
25.       Government educational policy places emphasis on the improvrement of
quality of primary and vocational education and a reform program, prepared by
the United Nations Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has been
adopted. Under this program, the future education system (to be imp:Lemented
as of 'Late 1982) will consist of a ten-year basic education course (divided
into three cycles of four, three and three years of duration each) followed
by three years of secondary education (including primary teacher traiLning),
and four to five years of tertiary education. At present, and since the
introduction of the education reform will be a gradual process, during most
of the current decade, the formal school system will continue to comprise six
years of primary and seven years of secondary schooling (including a lower
cycle of four and an upper cycle of three years) leading to the baccalaur6at
certificate. Tertiary education is offered at the State University of Haiti
with several faculties and specialized institutions and the Higher Teacher
Training College. Vocational and technical education starts after primary
school (in future after the second basic education cycle) with a first level
program of four years, followed by second level programs of two, three and
four years duration. In school-year 1980/81, Haiti operated a total of 2,996
primary schools (958 public, 2,038 private of which 1,197 were located in
urban and 1,799 in rural areas) with about 12,700 class-rooms (7,100 urban,
5,600 rural) and 13,400 teachers (7,500 in urban and 5,900 in rural areas).
Twenty-seven percent of the primary teachers are considered qualified (with
proper teacher training), 20 percent less qualified (with full or partial
secondary education) and the rest is formally not qualified (various levels
of primary education). The secondary system includes 206 schools (25 public,
181 private) with a total enrollment of 87,680 students, being instructed by
3,650 teachers (about 60 percent qualified). Most secondary schools are
located in urban areas and the boy/girl ratio is close to 1:1. The
University of Haiti has an enrollment of 3,800 students and a teaching staff
of 570. Most preferred lines of studies are medicine and pharmacy (880), law
and social sciences (840) and sciences (480).
Issues in Primary Education
Access and Enrollment
26.       Only half of the children in the primary school age group (6-12
years) participate regularly in schooling. In 1981, primary enrollment was
about 620,000, representing a gross enrollment rate of 70 percent and a net
rate of 43 percent nationwide. In rural areas, the net enrollment rate was
only 30 percent. While disparities in school participation follow an
urban/rural continuum, participation also varies widely among the different
departments of the country, with rural representation indices ranging from
0.519 (Grand'Anse) to 1.847 (Artibonite). Enrollment of girls is lower than
for boys (46 percent nationally, 43 percent in rural areas), however, their
school participation grew faster over the past five years.
27.       Lower school participation in rural areas is caused mainly by:
(a) lack of sufficient school facilities and/or difficult physical access to
schools; (b) cost of education to parents; and (c) other socio-economic
factors such as the need for child labor, or poor health and nutrition status
of the children. For the school-year 1981/82, an additional 13,500
classrooms would be needed in order to come close to universal primary



education -- more classrooms than presently existing. The real deficit is
even larger since at least 30 percent of public and 20 percent of private
primary schools urgently need replacement or repair. In addition, about
another 20 percent of private schools operate without buildings, in the open
air.
28.       The cost of education is also a deterrent to enrollment.  In rural
areas, the direct cost per child per school year, including gichool fees,
uniforms and learning aids, is US$19.0 equivalent (more than 10 percent of
average rural annual family income for 1979, estimated at US$153.0 equiva-
lent). Consequently, the actual annual average increase in primary school
enrollments in the past five years was only 1.7 percent (rural increase 4.0
percent) and considerably lower than the increase targeted (5.1 percent) in
the national development plan for this period.
Efficiency
29.       A major issue facing the Haitian primary education system is its
low internal efficiency, expressed by the low number of children who complete
the full primary cycle. The completion rate, for example, of a cohort having
entered school in 1978/79, based on historial coefficients, would be 47 per-
cent in urban and 20 percent only in rural areas. This situation is aggrava-
ted by a high repetition rate, particularly in the lower grades, which leads
to crowding of these grades and the strong presence of overage children in
all grades (39 percent; another reason for overage students is school entry
later than at the formal school entry age). At present, 35 lpercent of
primary school students are 12 years of age and older and only 26 percent in
urban and 13 percent in rural areas proceed through the full course without
repeating one grade. Consequently, it requires about 20 student-years to
produce one public primary school leaver in rural areas and about 15 student-
years to produce the same result in urban areas. It is interesting to note
that in private urban primary schools it takes only seven student-years to
produce one school leaver but the explanation for this may be, in part, that
these schools tend to attract (fee-paying) students by promising better
promotion results.
Quality
30.       Learning achievements of Haitian primary school leavers are low.
In fact, it is not ensured that children passing through the first cycle of
primary education even attain full literacy. While comparative measurement
of learning achievements is difficult and often inconclusive, the low quality
of an education system can be expressed and measured by the educational
inputs in terms of funds spent per student, teacher qualifications, intensity
and quality of supervision, relevance of curriculum and availability of
teaching and learning aids as well as sufficient and appropriate school
facilities. As to funds spent, the unit cost per primary student in 1979/80
was US$55.0 equivalent (including a parents' contribution of US$19.0
equivalent) which is low by any comparable standards. Students and class-
rooms lack the most elementary teaching and learning aids, and in rural areas
particularly, schools are dilapidated and under-maintained to the point where
teaching is directly affected. Teacher quality is low with less than half of
the teachers having themselves had sufficient training to perform their task
properly. They are poorly prepared to teach in rural circumstances and in



more than one grade per classroom or to cope with infrequent attendance and
overage students. Teacher quality is also a function of low monthly salaries
of US$100 equivalent for public and about US$40 equivalent for private
primary school teachers and consequently, attrition is high. Teacher
salaries are considerably lower than those of drivers or secretaries in
Port-au-Prince and man-, of the best qualified seek better paying
opportunities outside the education system or even abroad.
31.       There is at present much concern with the primary curriculum, which
dates from early this century and is not relevant to today's social and
educational needs of Haiti. It responds to the academic requirements of a
small 6lite, able to go on to the secondary and higher levels of education,
and memorization is a key factor in school learning and student evaluation.
Rural life is a reality left outside the present curriculum, making it
difficult for rural students to benefit fully from their schooling, and the
exclusive use of French as a medium of teaching complicates their situation
further. French, the official language, is mastered to some perfection only
by 5 percent of the population and about 20 percent is able to speak and
write it. All the population, however, understands and speaks Creole, the
national language. Using French in schools, imposes learning and emotional
barriers to rural children, and the gap between the classroom (francophone
environment) and the home (creolophone environment) generates a permanent
conflict and distorts the balanced intellectual and affective development of
the children.
Government Education Strategy and Educational Reform
32.       The Government is aware of the most pressing problems of the
primary school system and over the past three years, primary education has
undergone profound changes and plans for the coming five years are ambi-
tious. Regarding improvement of access to primary education, an increase of
the national gross enrollment rate from 70 percent to 83 percent by 1983 is
planned. This would require an increase of 168,500 student places, and
another 128,500 if the farther-reaching goal of increasing the gross rural
enrollment rate from presently 54 percent to 71 percent by 1987 is to be
achieved. The same concept expressed more generally would mean that the
Government would have to increase enrollments annually by about 34,000 new
students for the rest of the century which may be over-taxing its adminis-
trative as well as financial possibilities. In fact, an assessment of the
achievements of the Second Development Plan (1975/76 - 1980/81) has already
shown that the targets for the Third Development Plan are unrealistically
high; they are presently being revised.
33.       Public expenditure for education is still on the lower side
(1.4 percent of GDP) and should grow over the coming years. However, due to
other priorities, and in view of the particularly strong need for large
institutional (capital) investments, the education sector would require
substantial external assistance to sustain reasonable improvement of the most
impprtant educational indicators.  By its own means, the Government is
already carrying out an administrative reform of the Ministry of Education,
decentralizing its main functions by creating regional departments. Besides
restructuring all existing services, one of the most important elements of
the administrative reform is the strengthening of the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN) as an autonomous institution to undertake and coordinate
teacher training, curriculum and educational materials development and



- 10 -
educational evaluation and supervision. The formerly independent educational
radio was recently incorporated in the IPN.
34.       The most important of all reform endeavors, however, is the
fundamental revision of curricula and syllabi and the introduction of Creole
as a teaching medium in primary education. To date, selected curricula and
syllabi have already been developed for grades 1 to 3 and are being tested.
Curriculum objectives for the other lower primary grades have been agreed
upon. The new curriculum focusses on reading, writing, mathematics and
environmental sciences and methodologically is geared towards learning
through observation of the natural and social environment. Other innova-
tions in this context would be the grouping of children in classrooms
according to levels of ability, longer-term assignment of teachers to the
same cohort, shorter intervals of student evaluation and perhaps automatic
promotion.
35.       Haiti has received support from the UN-system, France, Canada,
USAID and various other bi- and multilateral assistance organizations
including IDA, to define its eduational policies and to initiate the first
steps for its implementation. The decision to implement aL ten-year basic
education course is based on careful assessment of the long-term educational
requirements of the country and is being strongly supported by UNESCO. Since
the implementation of such a fundamental eduational reform as envisaged in
Haiti is a politically-sensitive, costly, personnel-intensive and long-term
operation -- perhaps as long as 12 or more years -- some adjustments in the
objectives, operational procedures and even some delay may occur. However,
as of now, the reform has already received so much momentum and support that
high probability is given for the achievement of its main goals, provided
foreign assistance flows continue as in the past. IDA has played so far a
very prominent part in supporting the educational reform and in addressing
the culminant issues of the Haitian primary education system and the proposed
project would help stabilize and multiply the results achieved.
Previous IDA Experience in the Education Sector
36.       The Association has supported educational development in Haiti by
two education credits (618-HA, US$5.5 million of February 27, 1976 and
770-HA, US$10.0 million of March 17, 1978). The first education credit
(618-HA), recently completed and closed, financed the construction of 75
combined primary schools/community learning centers in rural and urban areas,
three primary teacher training institutions and the revision of the teacher
training curriculum. The project was completed about a year behind schedule
but achieved its main targets. It was particularly important as a catalyst
for major improvements in primary education and helped in the conceptua-
lization of the ongoing education reform. An important lesson from the
project is that construction of remote primary schools, under Haitian
conditions, can only be achieved in an economical way, un.der negotiated
contracts with the involvement of small local contractors and direct
supervision by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
37.       The second education project (770-HA) supports the expansion of
primary education, and secondary vocational and agricultural training. In
addition, the project contains a curriculum development and an educational



- 11 -
radio component. The implementation of the project is satisfactory with
respect to the educational aspects while the infrastractural component is
about 24 months behind schedule mainly because of a persistent lack of
counterpart funds. A recent change in the credit agreement assigning
increased construction responsibilities to the PIIU and allowing the
construction of remote primary schools using a system of negotiated and
supervised contracts with local builders, will enable the speeding up of the
school construction component of the project and it is estimated that with
this change and recently more regular flows of counterpart funds, the credit
will be disburses one year behind schedule as of December 31, 1984.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       Appraisal of the project took place during July 1981 and due to a
reduction of the scope of the project dictated by a reduction in the
availability of IDA funds, a post-appraisal mission became necessary in March
1982. These missions were preceded by a UNESCO identi-tification mission in
February 1980 and a preparation mission in April 1981. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C., from September 27 to 30, 1982 ,and the Haitian
delegation was led by Mr. Franck St. Victor, Minister of Education. A staff
appraisal report No. 3752a-HA of November 2, 1982, is teing distributed
separately.
Project Objectives
39.       The project would help the GOH in implementing important elements
of the educational reform and improve access to the lower primary cycle, and
enhance efficiency, quality and management of primary education. In
addition, the project would provide assistance in improving the training of
accountants.
Project Description
40.       The project would include the following components:
(a)  A school mapping exercise to determine optimal locations
for primary schools to be built under the project;
(b)  construction/replacement, furnishing and equipping of
45 rural primary schools (180 classrooms) and corresponding
low-cost teacher acommodations;
(c)  curriculum development in support of the lower primary grades;
(d) development and distribution of learning and teaeching aids, in
particular textbooks for primary grades 1 to 3;
(e)  teacher training and retraining courses in order to allow them
to implement the education reform;
(f)  measures to improve the pedagogical supervision capacity at the
primary level;



- 12 -
(g)  assistance to the Education Reform Committee, in charge of
promoting and supervising the education reform;
(h) monitoring and evaluation studies; and
(i) curriculum development and design of examinatiorn procedures
for accountants.
Detailed Features of Project Components
41.       School Mapping Exercise (Estimated Cost: US$0.2 million  equi-
valent): The objective of this component would be to determine the optimal
location of the new primary schools to be built under the project in the
departments of Grand'Anse, Sud-Est and Sud. These rural departments are the
least provided with primary school facilities in the country as shown by an
ongoing school location study initiated under the second IDA education
project. The exercise would consist in establishing an inventory of existing
primary school facilities, collecting demographic data, surveying the topo-
graphical conditions of the project area and in interviews with parents and
teachers. The results of the school mapping exercise would also serve for
the implementation of the nuclearization concept, whereby a variable number
of four-grade (and classrooms) primary schools would be grouped around an
easily accessible seven-grade central school in order to iLncrease partici-
pation in higher primary grades in the project area. The component would
finance the operational cost of the exercise (including data-processing) as
well as 12 staff-months of technical assistance. In order to achieve the
ultimate goal of the school mapping exercise which would be to reduce exist-
ing inequalities in rural access to primary education, the Government has
provided assurances that the location of project schools would follow the
findings of the exercise and be acceptable to the Association (Section 3.06
of the Draft Credit Agreement).
42.       Construction/Replacement of Primary School Facilities (Estimated
Cost: US$2.7 million equivalent): Since better access to primary education
is predominantly a function of the availability of adequate school facili-
ties, the project would construct or replace, furnish and equip about 45
schools with a total of about 180 classrooms. School locations would be
determined on the basis of the school mapping exercise and the total number
of classrooms to be provided would correspond to about 8 percent of the over-
all national requirements for new classrooms and 6 percent of the replacement
requirements as identified in the Third National Development Plan for the
project period. All schools would be located in the three educationally
least provided Departments Grand'Anse, Sud-Est and Sud and satisfy 28, 22 and
14 percent respectively of the total need for new classrooms in these areas.
Teacher accommodations would be included in all new schools in view of the
positive effects of the provision of housing on teacher recruitment and
retention as well as teacher absenteeism experienced under previous IDA
projects. Teacher accommodations would be simple and built to the size of
one-classroom modules so that they could be easily converted to additional
classrooms if not needed for housing purposes.
43.       Curriculum Development (Estimated Cost: US$0.4 million equivalent):
The introduction of a new primary curriculum will be the core of the
education reform. During the implementation period of the proposed project



- 13 -
(1982-86), the Government of Haiti plans its introduction in primary grades 1
to 3 and to make preparations for subsequent introduction in grades 4 to 6.
Important base work to this end has been done under the second IDA education
project for grades 1 to 4.  By 1984/85, the reform will have reached nation-
wide all grade 1 classrooms and about 70 percent of grade 2. One year later,
70 percent of all grades 3 will be taught under the new curriculum and a
larger sample of the remaining upper grade classes wqill be exposed to experi-
mental teaching. For most of this work, the Curriculum and Educational
Materials Unit of the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) would be respon-
sible, assisted by a group of French (bilaterally financed) subject matter
specialists. The contribution of the proposed project to this task would be
the provision of salary support for 18 national sub-ject matter specialists of
IPN for three years, 24 man-months of local technical assistance for curri-
culum development 21 man-months of international technical assistance for
curriculum development, and three man-months of international technical
assistance for health, nutrition and population matlers. In addition, UNDP
would support this component by financing 52 staff-months of international
and 30 staff-months of local curriculum specialist services (Estimated Cost:
US$0.5 million equivalent).
44.       Learning and Teaching Aids (Estimated Cost: US$0.8 million equiva-
lent): This component would finance the developmenl: of textbooks and work-
books (13 titles), teacher guides and related teachLng aids and of the
production and distribution of a first set of guides to all teachers and of
textbooks for classroom use in reformed schools. ALso, it would provide
operational and salary support for six local speciaLists in education
material development and production and 21 staff-months of international and
12 staff-months of local specialist services for textbook publishing. The
Curriculum and Educational Materials Unit of IPN would be responsible for the
coordination of textbook development and experimental production, distri-
bution and testing of new educational materials. In order to ensure that all
children have access to new materials, 11 copies of each textbook (or at
least one book for each four students) would be placed in each classroom by
IPN. Parents would still have to purchase the worklbooks, but having the
textbooks available, would ease the financial burden of primary school
attendance considerably for the poorest families. The Government has given
assurances that by the month of August of each year, these textbooks would be
distributed to grades 1 to 3 of all schools involved in the educational
reform (Section 3.08 of the draft Credit Agreement). However, large scale
production and distribution after the experimental phase would be left to
private publishing/printing houses which would operiate under Government
supervision and a system of price controls, designed to ensure schoolbook
distribution to all students at the lowest possible cost. To this purpose,
the Government will establish and maintain ceiling prices for the sale of
books and workbooks throughout the period of project implementation (Section
3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement).
45.       Teacher Training and Retraining (Estimated Cost: US$1.9 million
equivalent): The success of the education reform will depend largely on
teacher reaction to it, particularly on whether teachers understand its
innovations and are able to apply the new pedagogical methods and techniques
and use new teaching and learning materials efficiently. To achieve this, a
large array of training ventures would have to be started (or continued if
already introduced under the second IDA education project) to train over time



- 14 -
virtually all teachers in the new skills required to implement thle reform.
Training courses would take place for two to three months in existing teacher
training colleges during free afternoons and during school vacations. Educa-
tional radio would support this in-service training by a reinforcement
program supervised by the IPN radio training team, which has already been
formed. The proposed project would finance participation and operating cost
of the different training courses, and for the IPN, salary support for ten
specialists as well as six man-months of international technical assistance
services. For the educational radio's teacher training program, 20 staff-
months of specialist services and 12 man-months of international technical
assistance services for the development of training material would be
provided.
46.       Pedagogical Supervision (Estimated Cost:  US$0.6 million equiva-
lent): Equally important as the training of teachers to handle the education
reform is their supervision and to offer them permanent support in improving
teaching performance. For this purpose, IPN has set up regional centers and
has assigned qualified and experienced teachers as pedagogical advisors to
these centers. This component would finance equipment, furniture and office
supplies and four motorcycles for each center as well as their operational
cost in order to enable the pedagogical advisors to reach remote schools.
The monthly work and travel schedules of the regional centesrs would be care-
fully monitored by the recently created Pedagogical Supervision Unit of the
IPN which would also offer technical support to the pedagogical advisors
operating in rural areas.
47.       Education Reform Committee (Estimated Cost: US$0.05 million equiva-
lent): In order to ensure that the schedule of implementation of the reform
is properly coordinated and monitored, an Education Reform Committee was
established in September 1981. It reports directly to the Minister of Educa-
tion and is in charge of preparing policy analyses with respect to the
reform. The Committee is composed of eminent educators who are not directly
involved in the implementation of the reform. Prompted by the establishment
of this committee existing organizations such as the Curriculum Committee and
DEN, Planning Department have strengthened their monitoring functions. With
a more gradual introduction of the reform, they are now capable of the
necessary coordination, and the Reform Coordination Committee would be
abolished after one year. This component would finance the advisory services
of five of the committee members as well as two support staff and office
furniture and supplies for a duration of one year.
48.       Project Administration (Estimated Cost:  US$0.7 million equiva-
lent): The Project Unit established to implement the former two IDA educa-
tion projects would perform the administrative functions of the proposed
project. The unit disposes of experienced staff and is functioning well.
Two educators, two assistant educators and one assistant accountant would be
added to its staff in order to cope with the increased work load which the
proposed project would create (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment). Also, up to twelve man-months of international technical assistance
support to improve accounting procedures is foreseen.
49.       Project Monitoring and Evaluation (Estimated Cost: US$0.2 million
equivalent): The monitoring and evaluation component is designed to streng-
then both the Education Ministry's Evaluation Unit and the Research Unit of



- 15 -
IPN. Monitoring and evaluation studies would focus on the productivity of
key educational inputs (classroom conditions; efficiency of curriculum;
education materials; automatic promotion system), and the effects of improve-
ments in the employment conditions for teachers. The proposed project would
finance the local technical staff, and operational, printing and data
processing costs for these studies.
50.       Accountant's Curriculum Development (Estimated Cost:  US$0.1 mil-
lion equivalent): This component would provide the international technical
assistance (up to eight man-months) required to develop a standard curriculum
and procedures for a Government endorsed certificate for accountants. The
inclusion of this component would be the first step in the implementation of
a series of recommendations of an IDA supported study of the public account-
ing and auditing procedures in Haiti. The study was undertaken in the
context of the presently ongoing administrative reform. Starting 1984, the
government will conduct standard accountant's examinations on a self-
financing basis and generalize the new curriculum in all relevant public and
private training institutions (Section 3.09 of the Draft Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
51.       Under the different components of the proposed project about 287
man-months of technical assistance services would be provided to promote the
implementation of educational reform. The main sources for this technical
assistance would be the proposed project (95 man-mont:hs of international and
60 man-months of local specialist services) and UNDP/UNESC0 (90 man-months of
international and 42 man-months of local specialist services). IDA's share of
the total technical assistance cost of the project would be about US$0.81
million equivalent assuming man-month costs of US$300) to US$500 equivalent
for local specialists and of US$7,800 to US$9,000 for expatriate special-
ists. This cost is considered reasonable in view of the highly specialised
expertise required for the implementation of the pro:ject.  Recruitment and
employment of international experts would be organized and administered by
UNESCO in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981
(Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement). UNDP would finance technical
assistance costs of about US$0.86 million equivalent under its current
country program for Haiti with man-month costs ranging from US$6,700 to
US$11,000 for international and US$1,000 equivalent for local experts.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total project cost is estimated at US$10.9 million equivalent,
net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of a'bout US$5.1 million, or
about 47 percent of the total project cost. The proposed IDA credit would
finance 85 percent of the foreign enchange component other than for UNDP
technical assistance, and approximately 81 percent of local costs. Higher
local cost financing is justified by the constraints on resource mobilization
in Haiti and the high priority attached to this project. The Government
would finance the balance of local costs and meet projected incremental
recurrent costs of about 2.5 percent of the budget of the Ministry of Educa-
tion as of 1985/86 when project schools are in full operation. For the pre-
paration of the proposed project a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of



- 16 -
US$0.55 million was approved in September 1981 and was predominantly used to
advance the curriculum development component. The outlays under the'PPF are
included in the cost of the project. Regarding the provision of counterpart
funds, the Government will exchange views with IDA each year on the adequacy
of the proposed budget allocations so that the speedy implementation of the
proposed project will be possible (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment).
53.         Cost estimates generally are based on July 1981 prices (updated
to July 1982 prices) and an analysis of actual cost of similar items under
the previous two IDA education projects. Building costs for rural primary
school facilities of simpler design than under the second IDA education
project would be about US$150 equivalent per sq. meter of gross construction
area which is low by any standards. Community participation and contracts
with small contractors would contribute to keeping school construction costs
about 20 percent below conventional contracting prices. Furniture and equip-
ment lists have been reviewed and approved during appraisal and found reason-
able in scope and cost which amounts to 11 and 15 percent, respectively, of
construction cost. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at 50 percent for
construction and site development, 70 percent for furniture, 95 percent for
equipment and international technical assistance, 80 percent for educational
materials and 40 percent for implementation costs. No foreign exchange
component has been assumed for local technical assistance services. Taxes
are expected to be negligible since all imported items for the project would
be exempt from customs duties and taxes under current regulation.
54.       Contingency Allowance: Physical contingencies (US$0.6 million
equivalent) have been estimated at 5 percent of cost of construction, furni-
ture, equipment and consultant services, and at 10 percent of staff, opera-
tional costs and cost of teaching materials. Price contingencies (US$1.9
million) are based on the following assumptions: (a) implementation of all
project components would begin by end-1982; (b) construction activities would
begin in January 1984 preceded by the procurement of furniture and equipment
by October 1983; (c) local costs are expected to grow by 10 percent in 1982,
9 percent in 1983 and 8 percent in 1984/85; and (d) annual increases in
foreign costs are estimated at 8.5 percent in 1982, 7.5 percent for 1983-85
and 6 percent in 1986.
Procurement:
55.       Construction (US$1.0 million):  Due to the small size of contract
packages and the dispersed locations of project schools, it is not expected
that foreign bidders or civil works contractors operating in Port-au-Prince
would be attracted but neither would they be excluded from submitting pro-
posals. Based on experience of previous IDA education projects in Haiti, the
most efficient way of constructing remote primary schools would be by nego-
tiated contracts awarded to small local contractors pre-qualified by the
PIU. Building materials (cement, steel, lumber, roofing sheets, electrical
and plumbing materials) amounting to about US$0.85 million equivalent would
then be procured through ICB by the PIU and provided to local contractors.
For delivery of materials to the sites and for construction supervision,



- 17 -
support from specialists of the Ministry of Public Works would be received
under a fixed fee for the services and reimbursement of direct costs for
management.
56.       Furniture and Equipment and Materials (including textbook printing)
(about US$0.6 million) would be procured through ICB in accordance with the
current edition of the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement of March
1977. For the procurement of primary school furniture and equipment, UNICEF
assistance may be considered. Furniture, equipment and other materials not
apt for grouping in packages of at least US$0.05 million (aggregate total
about US$0.25 million) would be procured through local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Association. Items not exceeding US$3,000 per
contract, (aggregate total about US$0.1 million equivalent) and not suitable
for procurement through competitive bidding would be purchased through local
shopping on the basis of quotations of at least three suppliers wherever
possible. In the case of procurement through ICB, domestic manufactures
would be allowed a preferential margin in bid evaluat:ion equal to the
prevailing tariff or 15 percent of the CIF price of competing foreign
suppliers, whichever is lower.
57.       IDA Review of Tender Documents, Contracts and Work Programs:
Draft Tender and contract documents for building materials, school materials,
furniture, equipment and textbook printing and purchasing contracts would be
forwarded for IDA review and approval. IDA approval of tender evaluation
documents would be required prior to the award of al:L such contracts.
For civil works, the PIU would prepare and submit for approval detailed
estimates for each construction phase and the total amount of approved
estimates would be the ceiling cost for each phase. For the reform
implementation components, the PIU would prepare and submit for approval
annual implementation plans and detailed cost estimal:es.
Accounts and Auditing:
58.       The PIU (also responsible for implementing the second IDA education
project) would maintain a separate account for the proposed project and
submit to IDA, together with the progress reports, a quarterly summary of
expenditures. General auditing of project accounts would be made by the
staff of the Comptroller General. In addition, annual auditing would be
required for all expenditures financed under the project by auditors accept-
able to the Association.  Audit reports would be submitted to the Association
within six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year (Section
4.01(c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Administration and Implementation
59.       The proposed project has reached an advanced stage of preparation
due to the utilization of funds from the Project Preparation Facility. The
existing PIU which has already implemented the first IDA education project
and is currently responsible for the second IDA education project, would also
be entrusted with the proposed project. In view of expanded responsibilities
of the PIU resulting from more intensive supervision of school construction
activities in remote areas, and enlarged coordinatiorL functions with respect
to educational materials development, a limited number of additional staff



- 18 -
would be added to the existing staff complement. The proposed pro;ject would
be completed by June 30, 1986.
Disbursements
60.       The proposed IDA credit (including disbursements under the Project
Preparation Facility) would be disbursed over four years as follows:
-    65 percent of civil works costs (US$1.0 million);
-    100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local expenditures for
building materials (US$0.6 million);
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local
expenditures of furniture, equipment and materials; for teaching
and learning aids (US$1.0 million);
-    100 percent of costs of textbooks, training courses, professional
fees, technical assistance, consultants and project implementation
(US$4.0 million);
-    Project Preparation Facility (US$0.55 million);
-    Initial Deposit in Special Account/Working Fund (US$0.5 million);
-    Unallocated (US$1.35 million).
61.       Disbursements would be made against withdrawal applications
prepared by the PIU and submitted to IDA, with standard documentation
covering procurement of building materials, furniture and equipment.
Statement of expenditures with an aggregate value of US$3.4 million would be
utilized for disbursements on salaries, labour for construction and
implementation expenditures of (a) school construction; (b) project
administration; (c) six items related to the educational reform; and (d) the
school mapping exercise. Statements of expenditures would follow detailed
working agreements prepared for each item in a fashion satisfactory to IDA
and would be subject to specific auditing. In addition, withdrawal
applications for payments for items procured using LCB or local shopping
procedures in amounts less than US$3,000 for project administration, studies,
training, and professional services would be supported by statements of
expenditures. Supporting documentation for such statements would not be sent
to IDA but would be available for review during supervision missions.
Project Working Fund
62.       Since experience with other projects has shown that budgetary
constraints limit the capacity of Government to pre-finance expenditures to
be reimbursed under IDA credits, a working fund of US$0.5 miillion equivalent,
to be opened and maintained by withdrawal from the Credit Account, would be
established in a special account opened in an appropriate bank. IDA would
commence recovery of the initial deposit when the undisbursed credit amount
plus any commitments to commercial banks have reached the level of US$1.0
million (Section 2.02(c) and (d) of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
Benefits
63.       The proposed project would help that a larger number of children in
rural areas would be able to complete the lower primary cycle with alt least
minimum learning achievements. In addition, the school construction
component would create 4,600 new student places and secure about the same
number of student places in schools where unsatisfactory facilities would be
replaced by new ones. Improvements in learning and teaching aids and through
accelerated introduction of a new primary curriculum, learning achievements
of about 600,000 children would be positively influenced by 1986/87. This
would lead to a better completion rate and enhanced production of the primary
school system and a reduction of the illiteracy rate in rural areas.
Risks
64.       No major risks are envisaged.  However, since a fundamental reform
of basic education is a matter of long duration, education policy adjustments
might occur. In case such adjustments should fundamentally change the
qualitative and quantitative targets of the reform, a review of the project's
objectives might be indicated. Also, educational development targets in the
new Five-Year Development Plan (1982-86) may prove to be too ambitious and
due to limited counterpart funds, revisions become necessary in later years.
The Education Reform Committee and the Planning Department of the Ministry of
Education assisted by frequent IDA supervision missions intend to monitor
these risks carefully in order to take corrective measures as soon as
implementation delays show up.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Haiti and the Association, and the Recommmendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed separately.
66.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III of the report.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments.
November 5, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20-                                           ANNEXI
Page 1 of 5
TAB3LE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RAITI                             RUEPRENCE GR0UPS (WEIGHTED AVlflGEs
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST ASCSNT _STIMASZ)
TOTAL             27.8                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      13.9              1960 ]b    1970 /b ESTIMATE b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  90.0       110.0    270.0                   1902.0                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      34.2        32.7      63.3                  1259.9                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPMLATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3630.0       4235.0   5009.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6        19.9      27.5                    65.7                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       7.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        13.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      130.8       152.6     177.3                    35.2                     54.7
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    305.0       293.1     352.8                    92.5                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9        42.9      43.4                    39.7                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                         55.2        53.4      53.1                    56.1                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.9         3.7       3.5                     4.2                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6         1.5       1.7                     2.4                      2.8
URBAN                              4.1         4.0       4.9                     3.8                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     38.8        37.1      35.5                    31.4                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.5        16.6      13.8                     8.4                      15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       2.4                     2.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..      16.1/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       5.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         104.0       100.0      89.0                   110.0                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRE4ENTS)                   91.4        86.8      92.1/d                 108.4                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.7        47.0      50.1/d                  66.0                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       16.8        16.7      17.7/d                  34.0                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     46.5        29.1      18.1                     5.6                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.4         48.9      53.2                    64.2                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          182.0       142.6     114.6                    64.2                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      14.0/c                  65.6
URBAN                               ..          ..      38.0/C                  78.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       7.0/c                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                    59.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                    75.3
RURAL                               ..         1.0        ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9230.0     10609.2   5936.3/d                 1617.3                   4185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4021.8      3077.4   2936.9/d                 1063.5                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1567.4      1194.6    1218.9/d                 477.4                   1036.4
URBAN                            298.0       470.9     583.4/d                 679.8                    430.8
RURAL                               *       5075.8   3309.7/d                 1903.4                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                    27.3
.HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         3.6       4.4/c
URBAN                               ..         2.2       4.2/c
RURAL                               ..         4.3       4.5/c
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.9
URBAN                               ..         2.0
RURAL                               *-         1.9
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         4.1       2.9/e
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 21 -
.ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV   AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 46.0        51.0      62.0                   104.3                      83.,3
MALE                 50.0        57.0        ..                   106.4                      96.1
FEMALE               42.0        46.0        ..                   103.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  4.0         6.0      15.0                    41.3                      15.3
MALE                  5.0         8.0      16.0                    40.4                      19.4
FEMALE                2.0         4.0      13.0                    41.8                      11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 21.4         19.0       8.0/c                  33.7                       4.7
_
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           42.9        52.3      41.2/d                  29.9                     38.6
SECONDARY                         12.7        18.0      27.0                    16.7                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.0        23.3      23.0                    79.1                      35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.3         2.7       4.0/c                  42.8                      31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.8        19.6      20.5                   270.5                      71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5         2.6       3.0                   107.7                      17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                 10.5        18.7       6.9                    63.7                      19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       1.2/d                   2.7                       0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1970.9      2102.4   2375.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.6        47.0      46.1                    24.4                      36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             80.0        74.2      73.5                    31.3                      56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.4         7.2       7.2                    23.9                      17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               54.3        49.6      47.4                     33.6                     37.0
MALE                                58.4        54.3      52.5                     50.4                     46.9
FEMALE                              50.4        45.2      42.6                     16.8                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9       1.0                      1.3                      1,3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    169.0/d                      *-                    507.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    144.0/d                   184.1                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      82.0/d                 518.0                     523.,9
RURAL                               ..          ..      73.0/d                 371.1                     203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      55.0/d
RURAL                               ..          ..      78.O/d
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/4  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithuetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e 1975.
May, 1982



- 22 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
D1p111TfMS OP 5XuIS IftCAfE
Xot4m;  Although the data era draw  from ee...s pesrillp judged the met Authaitatir. sad reltahis, it should alec be noted that they may -n he itote-
eatiomally oowarahle hboose of the i1ch of et.edaodiaad deiciti-n  sod cooncepts use d by different ce,entriso  in coLoctiag the data.  The doe  r,   ao
ihlsa  .oful to d .scribe orders of magitude, indicate t-eds, and  htharterise .ctain maJor differen.ces btve   coun...trie..
The reference groups are (1) the ea.   coun...try grop of the subject coun try and (2) a coun.try group with somwhat higher  -vreg  i-com   cha- rho country group
of the eubjootc country (onc..pt for   "gigh Inco..      Oil foportors" group whore "tiddle Income North Afr ic.aend Kiddie EAst' ia chcs.n because o` stronger
eooio-cctura  afinities . I  the referoco  group data the aveags  are population waibtod arithmetic   an  for esob indicator and ebawn oly wh.n
maJority of rho cutisinegroup has daafr then idicator.  Since the cvrgof coattnise amagthe itaero depends on, the cualuility of data
and to nor uiform, caution eot ho rercised in relating  averages of one indicator to aoher.  Tecaeae  are onl  uet   t  cI                           prtu  thu vlun. of
oeindicator or a tine amog the country and refor.n.. groupe.
h h(tosn    qh.)Ppumtanioc pon  "'itl Led - total,  rh, an   uol-  ouotn  (totol.
Total   Total aunfuc  a-oa  -priaiug 1und  rne and tot1ad watore  1979 duta.                      urho, ad rurl) divided by choir reapectt .c aa  of hoopital beda
Agri..cuttra  - Eatiane of agritu1t.ral are  ond teopocarily or p-ranatly                         availabla in public And privuto  8ennre.l me~tdiepoololi-d hoaptcl1 endno
for co Pe. pcrrco  market aud kicchnn gardoca on to lIe failow; 1979 data                       hailitutioc cerra          -opitale ar   et h -ibete perecetly etaffod
hy at toast cc..  phyafitac.  fatoblieheanta. pcuid iog  rinotpaily cee
iff :P   CAPIT.A (US$) - GNP? P0  capitu e-tietee a cnco.ct market pr ice    cot-                 ditcr   r   c  nldd   Ortheiac   uvo, inlde health
ctatd by   _      -- nori-t method ae World funk Atlae (I978 -8f heia); 1960.                  ucd medica  ortaru cot Prrmannt ly staffed hy . phystlon  (hut hya
1970. and 19h0 dare.                                                                              meio a    od.. o..ietao. -ur-.1mdwife, err.) which offer in-paniectacao
dation cod p-cvido u Iioitod canfe of medical f-oliliom .  Por  nte
ENRGtYi CONSUMP'TION PERi CAPITA - Aocua  c.oconytion of coarciu1  -crgy (co                        tical purpo..n. crhau hoepitul  include WHOfi pyriu iyai/geee-1 haspita1.,
aod ligniia, ptoen    uo    gas and hydo-, cola Mn  geothermi clc-                                and r-r1 hanpitsle, lana  on noelhoopitut and medical and materoity
tricity ) in, kilogrome of coaI  qoivaloct pon ..pit.; 1960. 19701..ad 1979                       centerm.  Spocialieed hompiLaIe ore loaluded only  md.c total.
duta..Ad,fain  pergoaital Bed - TotL.  n,t'r of udmiuui... to or dierhargee
frmheitaLe  divdd by the ocueha  of hedo.
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS
Toto:l P           Moaic   id-tear (tho.....da) - A. of July L; 1960, 1970. and 1,9ff0       lHOUSING
dta.                                                                                        Avera   Si.e ofHueold fosn   e  iouehuld-toa.renad rural
Urhan Puolatioc (porcont of tonu1) -  atio of urban to tutci pnpolaticn;                          A  ucoahld ceoite  fugrcu   fidv aawt.hothen  ivn   quortere
differect dnf Inttioa of9une  arn.  may afc  u            -abiLity uf data                      ad their main mole.Ab huaderor;lodger may on may cct be included in
omec  ....ntrica; 1960,17.ad1S a,                                                               the houshold for  tatiotnL poost
PouainPceti-na                                                                         A.ve-u nutor ofproepr rom-total, orhan, and carat -avragenm
Puoulotiun In yea  2010         - Cnetypuetioc Projotiona are ha...d entog                     he8br of pereu  pa      tomi  allrhned r        ural occupied cooven Ioa
totlppuatinby ago aod eu end their mnnaiY and fertility ra .dwellinge. reeciey                                                  cE. malad   - o-permanet atructuro  cnd
Pro)ectinn penantore f or mer-llty notee  -omptiso of three levels  -eu-                     unocuopid parra.
ing lifo  enpootencp an birch incra..eieg eith  -eocry'   per ..P pita incom              dA.... to Elotnicity (percen.t ofdollug)     toal   rbn            cadn      1a  -
levo1, cnd femaleilife%nuPoctecy otubileing ot t77.0yar.The para-                            Cccvcntic..al dwllivog  with orritiy n livt   uaterampercentage
noncre for fertIicy rte ano. have throco.. leel  a-o .,n od.,ine  in                         of ttci. -nbnc. aed rora1 dwellingeooeottcun-ly.
fertili ty n-crding to incom  leve  and pout f rally PI-niug performnc..
curb coutry io then ooeig-ed cone of theucntneccahbinatioe  of mentality                EOUCATIfti
and f-ccility trncdu for projection yu-p.....                                              Adluetod Erurllmect fRtio
Seation.coy ocpuletic - Io.n.u.  lcur-yppuaio   here ic no groeth nin.o                         Primary achncl -totul, male  -d femle - lr...crtonl. mato and femal
th    ithnt   ta  quol to rho death rae  cod atuc thouge tooctre-                      eneiru1nof ot ugno et. the primary1-evo   Pu er.cunage  of mayortlv-
maia ooac.Thin to uhiuvdol ffter ioify ntadeln or                                               prIar  nol-.g  yytc.          cu   Iotaiy Inldo  child. renagd 6-il
tho rePlocoment lnreI of colt- ctrProduotico rote, oh-cach gec..rorioc                        ynr  ht adjueted foe diiffront Iergthu of -prmay odo..atin;fun
of woe  nopa.e. itan1f courly.  The anaionay pepultuc  icctowac                                 ruut rioe with   dnvra   education ocrotllen  may ened 1ff percent
netimtcod.on the bacietof the projocted ohanc..       iti..   fch  ypcoe                        ohce. a-   pupils are belce or ahnv. tho ofIia          chn  ag.-
inthin your  Dffg  and  ho r-tc of decliuc of footility rote to noploor-                    Seodr   chool1 - cono,2 md  an   feeo - Computed ue nhnv; a,ccodun
meulovl",                                                                                    eaneti-nnequ-oIt leas Ffuu  pEca of appnovd Frimr  ionntuctio
Toan ertiomaryponola ionl  roa..kod - Thn. ynun wh.n n.teioary popua.tion                 providoc gene ral. catoa. en -nnhe  trainingiarot ef on pupils
elanwil Iseeh.d.                                                                             o-o1y of 12 tc i7 yeono of age; --noP.dodece . ..u..er. n  generally
Pen enq.   -Mtd-yen population Pon  q-are kilomter (lOt hncternm) of                         Vocati-ml enolmet (porc..t or oecenrle) - Vo..anio...l icetitotio..
total ara;1960. 1970 and  1979 dota                                                          incude trcani1, inunrao           onohn    pregnantwhich  porate lodepeud-
Pe  o.h. roicult-nllr      opt  o    bv   e   gionl l.land                              etly or I           -dee tmet  of cocuoyiniutce
onl!1y; 1~960.,I1970 and 1979 data.                                                          Pui-oce   ai      rmr,adeonay -Toauadtsrlsdo
Poultion bee Otooture (pr...on) - Chlldreu  (0-t4 yosna), noigge(15-                           prtsry.and sooedary I.v-I. divided by note.ra of coa..h-r to the
hi yearo), and retired 165 yearn and ovr-a.0        rntae   f aid-yuan ypcp-                    toropoding1 .evola
1etidc; 1960, 1970  ..ad 19ff doto.                                                          Adolt Litoracy rune (Percent) - Litorar- ado1t  (ehln to  -ed and oi
Population Growt.h Ratn rercou0t),6- ict-   - gonad growth ranee of tcre  aid-                   oaaercn-cun   uf total adult popolocien agod 11 perec audocr
yunPopulationu  195.0, _190-7 ,ad 1970-80.
Pepulonioc foenth Rtia    (Pro... t) - unbon - Accol growth rutee of urhan pupo-             CONIIJNTION
Lani.n. for 19 5040.O 1960-00, and 1971410.                                                  Poeenger Coon (por chuoumed populatiouf         P - .Pacngtcun   opin    ao
Condo Birch Rate (prthouncd) - A--Ia lIre births por thooeeud of eid-yec.auetn.le    hcegtpeun;nruo   outcoe, hearae  and'
populutino; 1960, 1970, and 1960 doto.                                                         eilitryvohioiou.th            ih   r..         ,c     bl
Crude leech Rate (pcr tbocuaud) - Annual deothe per th-unud  of mid-yeor                       Radio   . icovnn   (Fro  thoucond p.p.lotion)- All typ-n of re...iveoa for radie
poulton 6h., 197f, and  U9g  data.                                                       broadruIt, tc georno  poblic par thouuucd of poplutice  encludotun
Or..n Racroduccit  naoAvrg-co    of d""hoct  nc                      ill hear in                   icednoroat   onoe   n  tie                        h.r on  orgltrotio  of radio
hen tunnel. nerduotic  perind i   beproco    roc  ag-apmifi  ten-                               once .ea  in effect; dato for r-onot yca.ru  mapco   hr . coparable uin..
tilitync.toa;os-n1y fivc-yoan avraeecding in 1960, 1970, ucd 1900.                              moot  cnrioeabc1iohnd Iiocooing.
Paniy " Paing - A-cPtor,donl(ootho.nde). - hu-IIa caber ofi acopton                             TO Recoivee f per thau...nd population) -. TO orceiv-rntoo b-odr..nt to
of birth-cunt-l davi ao  udr         ....yi.. of ntinu. Ifamily plnno g program.                general publio per thoomand popalacico; eorludon uitr....d TOVeevr
PmlyPann - "ler  (peccat of married enmc).  - Pe,              I Iae  f   aried                 tonco-trins ad in yeare whonngiceto    f T  otu eoe in effant.
memo of ohilid-ertg oE. (5-44 peara) who uno bi.nI.-,.oro Idevice  to                          nanaparo tiroalote  (e1tosad           to'ienio) - Shcwo the avng   cm-
all marriod wome  in  -om  ug  gruop.                                                           -uui-o dal   oeu  itnonwpap-", mrftuned uocPnnicdic
publication d.cvrd primarily to  ecdn   grert  rm.  it in room idered
FOOD AND NU0TRITIONl                                                                                to he "daily" if in app_ra at Iloa.c four chat   wo k
foden of Pood Peoduoti-n per Copitn (1969-7l1-1IfO) - Lode  of per ..pit.onn.-I                Ci-em   A...oI Attendanceyen~ Copit  pro 0Y-c  - Rate d 00 the oatcnr of
production of alt fend  -omediti-e   Prodution ecodme seed and feod and                         tihkte uo.d doting the year. inolodilog adalcotoe   tn drivo-en dorm
ce an caleodno your bnei .Cemudinic  rve  primary goode (e.g. augo...an.                       und   bhil  _lto..
imacead of eugur)whc  aredible, and ...tic  utetentn  (e.g. coffee                         LAORFdC
tea are eucIdod).c Aggrogot  p-odntic- of ..ach country to ba..cd on.OiPlC
notona  urrag   prducer prlco wrighte;-191-hO 19170, mod 19Sf dora.                         Total Labor Purre (tho..e.nde) - frooculcully aci-u poreoco  tocluitog
Pornult nurly of calrir  (pcerent of _eoiocta) - Computed fr..                                 are   crne    nelpdbtcc=dn    oorvc    tdnu   t.
-nrgy   quatrof co  food nuppl.co avIlable ioc country pon ca pica                              evorg poptricef alt ago.  Definiiro   in.               - _iou   co oe  uro
per da.Y    AvaSlble eupplicouca.priuc domeotir prodctino, ipyort  I.at                        not oooa,eruble; 1960. 19ff and 19 09 d,eto.
onporta. end ch,ne, ic truk,  Nec u-pplio  noludo acima1 feed, noedo,                         yFma1  (po...ont) - Pm1t  labor forco am por--ncruocf toru1 labor furr
qonlieundi   udp..c.n. g   ci I ..ce  In d ribttihui.  fquite-                        Agricultre  pocn)-Laborfrei    mn.foory,hunting  -an
men inwino erfance  by PA  hoandon phyinlogiat cedo for normal acti-               fiahiu  uo piocoaat      ftoa  lhao  foc;=         00.170od  91data.
vfcy ad health .r....idening evroce-ota1 teperatre,.  bdy  ogt.aoInduotry fRecooct) - LI.uhr furr  in  :l"ig.  cotuti9c, monfcctig
ond c- diutrlbacion of ppuintio, and allowing 10 P-.-,n for vatw              noduetiir,wtradgoa  peoerfofcctlhrfn;
bouochclId level; 1916151. 1970 adp 197 dtno                                                      1960. t97S and 1980 da
Pon  . roino epply of pretot  (caE  pec. day)_-Peotei  cootect of per .oPltu                   Paticlirntiot Rate (Pnrct) - rotu1, sale. u-i fomal  - Participctlan or
non eply offod pen day.  Niot oupply of food ia defined an above,  in-                         activity rotem  arc rogrutod ou tto1, male, and femalo labor forc  oo
quiomc=tm  for all countrieu cotobliehed by USDA ynovidn f on ninim                             perreotogee of totu1, male and fomalo population ofall ogaree.pe-ively;
allwurn  of6f. gram  of tono1 p-ruino per day and 20 gram  of animal and                        1960, 1970, end 1980 data.  Th..,r  bed0  Ioprloptu   rutee
Pule. prtcn torfwhi  10 gram  ahould bc oeima  protein.  inne  atmod-                           ret:io gtigag-eo  otrtuotoe  f theopltio.ard lung time teen.  A
ard  are lumen thanh thoen of70 grama or to tal proteint  23 gram  of                          few o esimeo  oefran mticoul.. ecurono
a.nial Protoi   au   rng  for theworld, proposetd hy PAO in the Third                        frcomI oDPcedally Raio,- Ratio of populution undee 15 end 65 and over
fooId Pond Survey; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data,                                                 toteoa  labor fume.
rivad fra= saimlsmed pulss i  graspe  a;196145  19710ad197 data.                           INCOME DISTRIBUI7TON
Child fame. 1-4) Death Stun  f per thou!asnd  - Annual deethe par tho....ad in                  P    ntage of Private Incm   (both in oceh and kind) -*. tetived by rinheet
age group 1-4 yaare, to ohildea  ithis age group; for meet devlolping coo n-                    N par-nt. riuheat 20 percet, poorest 20 peccant, ref poorsat 40 pare...t
tries data denived germ life tnahise;t1960. 1970 end l9gO data.                                of ho...abolde.
HRAS.TH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
life. Eorocany at Oit M reaa    -Avrage cuabr of year  of life reaining                         Tho following aetiatee ace very appruimate maueef povertylee.
at  Zhith  lOf,4170 and  9g0)date,                                                            end shoold he ietenpreted with coedidereble  anin
redoe gncalty  are  penthouad) - Mean  deacha of iofanno  nden eve poor                 tEtimied Ahanlano P.vety Iomlvl 5$pr  -aica) -   banbonad rurl1
of ae pe  thosandlive births; 1960, 197U and 1980 date.                                   Absolute Povery incme leveli .1then inomeleeI            lelwhich a mutel
MA.a cctag Saroc W.      nn   fcouaion)    itel  uHa               ndtrural  1-                      ri-noetiomally adaqunt  dine plan... tsenie1 eon-fondLnqrmet  tont
her ofpol   total. urban  ad  .n.l  wt  reee.ha mcsee to sae                                     ffu.rdble.
onion supply (ineludos treuce-erfaea watona en untreated but naootamoated                    Eatimated Ra1tcive.PcvrrIcm.ee   0$prr -pica) -orhac, aud trurl1
water e_hloethen from prortidhrhae,snng.ad niaywle)a                                             ua  reltive pvrty income: leve  to ume-birdo  argePer -apit.
P-arctagee of their respective populations,  to aaan   n aea   public                           perooma  iboom  of the coantry.  Urban leve  to derIved from  the rural
foantain on stadpost located net mane then 200 aamersfrom   h.us  may he                       leve  with adjmatmnt for higher cot of living in unbnaes
-aniderad as belag nichen nensceable aconaof that  aue.  In rura  ae.e.                      Ftatimtd Ponulnico. felon bslute Poet  Ibmles   eaea)     na
raaonabl  macm  me.Id ipgly that the =auaalfs cc -.hee of the heuaheld                         And nunal  F- Ponoe  of Popultien fonha  so   ra)wh   r   aslte
do  at have to apand adisyreporttamat  part of the day  in fetuhing eha-`
family.s watar needs.
Momsa to Ranrata Dfapasa          ..nge ufnoultim) - total;. o "am  aod rura  -
Hai,:.terf pePle (totat, uh         ndrrt  sevd by ingrte diapsml a
paroseage  of thei r   paptieiv   pepolatines.  Zeareta dgM.spel -y include
the ge      iotds   and di.peeel, with or sithoat teestmsamt, of kgasn sramta
sod waste-wter hy eater-horn  ypetm   an the  -s  of pit privi   and ott-
!ggnjgtimpa,ppoJgiian - Ppala1iton divided by ... ar of pructisieg physi-                                                             Ecenomic and Social Sate Ietetain
ofs    nlffi   Edmamdigl enhoot at meiveritp lev-L.                                                                       Eoosmin Aeslysi.aend  Pojegae   m"rmt-.
PeeaRspr gmesta  F.---m  - Popelatiem  divided by aUmr of prseteteg                                                                         fMoy 19ff
mete and gamete grdet  eaem . asistt norms, pemetical suem   aod
eerstmg amt   "atme



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
HAITI - ECONOMIC DATA 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Million      %                       1965-75 3/    1970-75 3/        1975-81 4/
GNP at Market Prices                   1,572.7    100.0                        1.4             3.8             5.0
Gross Domestic Investment                205.3      13.1                      11.8           14.2              5.1
Gross National Savings 2/                   1.9      0.1                      13.7           19.7             -4.4
Current Account Balance                 -116.0       7.4                       -              -
Export of Goods, NFS 5/                  226.1      14.4                       1.2           11.9              4.8
Inport of Goods, NFS 5/                  411.7      26.2                       4.7           10.0              7.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added
US$ Million          X
Agriculture                              335.0        32.7
Industry 6/                              235.2       23.0
Services                                 453.0       44.3
Total/Average                  1,023.2       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 7/                  Central Government
G Million        % of GDP              G Mi]lion          % of GDP
1981        1975    1981               19>81         1975    1981
Ctrrent Receipts                         1,171.5        13.1    14.7               655.9          9.3      8.2
Current Expenditures                     1,220.4        11.7    15.3               807.3          8.2    10.2
Current Surplus(+) or Deficit (-)          -48.9         1.4    -0.6              -151.4          1.1    -2.0
Capital Expenditures                        623.2        7.5      7.8              543.3          5.5      6.6
External Assistance (net) 8/               461.7         5.2      5.8              399.0          4.5      5.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970    1976    1977        1978       1979      1980         1981
(Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi-Money                          198.2   779.9   930.6   1,159.7   1,353.5   1,593.5   1,801.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   189.2   346.3   288.9        332.0      392.2      605.6      837.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   65.3   519.7   658.0        791.5      921.8   1,010.4   1,118.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP               10.0    17.7    18.5        22.5        23.0      22.2       22.1
Consumer Price Index  (Base 1955 - 100)        124.0   247.3   264.4    257.5          291.0    343.7       415.9
Consumer Price Index in
Annual Percentages Changes                    3.3    10.2       6.9     -2.6         13.0      18.1       21.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    -2.1      8.9    16.6       14.9        18.1      54.4       38.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    9.9    15.2    26.6        20.3        16.5       9.6       10.7
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered,
1/     Date refer to FY ending September 30.
Does not include current transfers
3/     IHS, Comptes de la Nation, 3/31/81.
4/     World Bank estimates
5/     Net of imported inputs for assembly industry exports.
6/     Mining, manufacturing, public utilities and construction.
7/     Consolidated Accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises.
8/     Net disbursements of loans and grants.
9/     N.A. is Non-Applicable.
October 1982.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 o f S
HAITI - TRADE PAYMENTS AnD CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-81)
US$ Million   X
1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
(USS Million) -                                Coffee                                        56.4        34.2
Cocoa                                          5.2         3.2
Export of Goods, NFS                105.7    147.3    181.0    203.6    209.1    288.1    226.1              Essential Oils                                 6.9         4.2
Import of Goods, NFS              -165.1   -225.5   -269.0   -292.2   -342.2   -414.0   -411.7               Bauxite                                       17.9        10.9
Resource Gap (deficitt- -)           5          872       TU      -98.6   -S1   -125.    -5T-.               Assembly Industry (net)                       30.3        18.4
Small Industries and Handicraft               22.5        13.7
Interest Payments (net)              -7.0      -7.2    -12.1    -14.7    -13.4    -14.3    -17.8             All Other Commodities                         25.6        15.4
Other Factor Payments (net)           ..        ..        ..        ..        ..        ..         ..           Total                                     168TT       100.0
Net Transfers                        39.4      65.1      61.5      77.9      85.8       69.8      87.4
Balance of Current Account         -270         7       :0 :7     -7; -38. -5    :77T          -116.0        EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 2/           US  Million
Direct Foreign Investment             2.7       6.8       8.0      10.0      12.0       13.0      15.7       Public Debt including guaranteed                    329.1
Net MLT Borrowing                    19.7      24.8      50.2      42.2      33.1      36.6       42.6       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Disbursements                    24.9       33.3      60.5      31.3      39.3      46.5      55.8       Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Amortization                      5.2        8.5      10.3       9.2       6.2       9.9      13.2
Other Items n.e.i.                 -18.5        0.1      -6.8    -16.5       29.8        9.0      24.4       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
Increase in Reserves (-)             23.1    -11.6    -12.8    -10.3    -14.0          11.8       33.3
Public Debt, including guaranteed                     9.4
Irons Reserves 1/                     9.9      22.7      31.0      38.9      54.7      40.3       19.4       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Reserves 1/                      -3.8       7.7      20.5      30.7      44.7       32.9     -0.2        Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                   IBRD/IDA LENDING (September 30, 1982)           US5 Million
Imports                          12.9      17.1       23.6      24.5       34.5    63.0       61.0
Exports                             -         -         -         -          -        -         -        Outstanding and Disbursed                            97.0
Undisbursed                                          78.2
Outatanding including undisbursed                  175.2
1/     Monetary Authorities.
-      Not Applicable.
.      Not Available.
2/     1981 Debt Figures are not available yet.
Dctober 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
---------US$ Million------…--
Loan or                                                      (less cancellations)
Credit                                                   Bank
Number       Year        Borrower         Purpose       Amount     IDA      Undisbursed
One loan and five credits have been fully disbursed        2.6      51.9
675-HA       1977     Republic of Haiti   Rural
Development:           10.0         1.3
757-HA       1978     Republic of Haiti   Water Supply              6.6          2.3
770-HA       1978     Republic of Haiti   Education                10.0          6.2
807-HA       1978     Republic of Haiti   Transporta-
tion V                 15.0         0.5
895-HA       1979     Republic of Haiti   Power II                 16.5          5.3
1106-HA      1981     Republic of Haiti   Agricultural              3.2          2.4
Rehabilitation
1121-HA      1981     Republic of Haiti   Ports                    11.0          8.,3
1131-HA      1981     Republic of Haiti   Industrial Credit         7.0          6.4
1220-HA 1/   1982     Republic of Haiti   Highways VI              14.0         14.0
1257-HA 1/   1982     Republic of Haiti   Forestry                  4.0          4.0
1281-HA 1i   1982     Republic of Haiti   Power III                26.0         26.0
Total                             2.6    175.2         78.2
of which has been repaid    2.6
total now outstanding
Amount sold                       0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA           175.2
Total undisbursed                                      78.2
1/   Not yet effective.



- 26-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Type of     Amount in $ Million
Fiscal Year            Borrower                 Business    Loan   Equity   Total
Promoteurs et  1/             Integrated      1.35    0.15    1.50
Investisseurs                   Poultry
Associes, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                       1.35    0.15    1.50
Less Repayments
Total Commitments now held                    1.35    0.15    1.50
by IFC
i/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION as of September :30  1982 1/
Credit 675     Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981 postponed to December 31, 1982.
In the beginning, the project was facing ma;jor difficulties but has
taken off well recently. Disbursements now are flowing rapidly. While agri-
cultural field trials and rural water supply components have progressed beyond
appraisal expectations, implementation of the roads component is slightly behind
schedule. The irrigation component has been reduced substantially. The
Government has expanded the financial autonomy of the project agency and has
established a revolving fund to help speed up the disbursement process.
Credit 757     Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; US$6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to
December 31, 1982.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants; delays in issuing bid documents and
the need to rebid for three of the seven project towns. The technical assistance
component is proceeding well. KfW (Federal Republic of Germany) agreed to
finance two towns when it became clear that the UNCDF grant was not enough to
cover three towns. UNCDF has increased its allocation, for the remaining town.
The total cost of the project is about US$1.7 million above appraisal estimates.
Because of poor contractor performance, a re-arrangement of contracts has been
undertaken.
Credit 770      Second Education Project; US$10 Million. Credit of March 16,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is about 18 months behind schedule due to a shortage
of local counterpart funds. However, IDB is providing such funds under a
post-Hurricane Allen loan to help Haiti meet local costs of IDB and IDA
projects. Construction has been stepped up under the supervision of the
Project Unit. Progress in the educational aspects of the project is
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 807     Fifth Transportation Project; US$15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to Dec,ember 31, 1982.
(a) Road Component: Civil works have been completed and accepted by
Government.  Studies for the preparation of a Sixth Highway Project
were completed and provided the basis for appraisal. The component
is almost fully disbursed.
(b) Coastal Shipping Ports Component: Construction of the three pilot
ports for coastal shipping is complete and the terminals are being
put into operation. The new facilities are efficiently administered
and experimental port charges are being collected from port users.
Consulting work on an accounting study for the National Port
Authority is progressing satisfactorily. The component is almost
fully disbursed.
Credit 895     -  Second Power Project:  US$15 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and EEC Special   EEC Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of
Action Credit 4   Effectiveness:  April 21, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project, co-financed by CIDA (Canada) under a grant of
Can$17.1 million, suffered an initial delay resulting from a disagreement
between Government and EdH on contract award for the diesel generators and
the subsequent dismissal of EdH's management and main consultants. Credit
effectiveness was delayed almost one year and the implementation of important
institutional and technical aspects up to 18 months. However, due to quicker
delivery of generators and IDA-arranged overlapping of consultant services,
overall delay will only be about three months. The main component, the expansion
of the Varreux power station, proceeded according to schedule. Cost increases
caused a slight reduction in project scope (distribution component). The
project is now advancing and disbursing in a very satisfactory manner.
Credit 1106   -   Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$3.2 Million Credit
of April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1981;
Closing Date: Originally September 30, 1982
postponed to March 31, 1983.
The project is emerging slowly, however, the Government has now set
up a revolving fund to expedite project activities. USAID has supplied five
thousand tons of fertilizer and ICB for more fertilizer purchases under the
project has been undertaken. Procurement of tools is expected to be completed
soon. Design work for farm service centers has been completed and locations
for 16 centers to be built under the project have been identified. A nursery
program has been established and the Ministry of Agriculture has increased
extension staff strength in the project area from four at appraisal to ten
at present.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1121    -  Port Development Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of April 13,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The major contract of the project, to construct the new terminal in
Cap Haitien, has been awarded. The contract for seven, coastal shipping ports
is being awarded and the contractor is already proceeding with preparations
for precasting piles and other work related to the project. The feasibility
study for the expansion of the international terminal at Port-au-Prince has
been started by the consultants. The weak cash position of the National Ports
Authority due to slow procedures in collecting outstanding debts and delays
in Central Bank transfers may influence project performance in the future.
Credit 1131    -  Industrial Development Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: December 8, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Industrial Development Fund has completed preparation of its
Operations Manual and its Internal Regulations. A first project has been
approved and another 52 applications are under appraisal or processing. Lack
of qualified personnel and a recent change in the management of the project
have delayed its full implementation.
Credit 1220    -  Sixth Highway Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of April 27,
1982; Date of Effectiveness:  December 17, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This Project is not yet effective.
Credit 1257    -  Forestry Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of June 16, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: December 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
This Project is not yet effective.
Credit 1281    -  Third Power Project; US$26.0 Million Credit of August 18,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: November 17, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
This Project is not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identification:
(1)  UNESCO Identification mission:             February 1980
(2)  IDA Education sector mission:              June 1980
(3)  Government request received:               March 1981
(4)  Preparation mission:                       April 1981
(b)  Appraisal mission departure:                    July 1981
(c)  Post-appraisal mission departure:               March 1982
(d)  Negotiations completed:                         September 30, 1982
(e)  Planned effectiveness date:                     January 1983
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action:                   None.
III. Special Conditions:  During negotiations, assurances have been received
regarding the following matters:
(a) Condition of Effectiveness:
(i) The establishment of a Special Account/Working Fund
(para. 62).
(b) Other Conditions:
(i) The acceptance of objective criteria for school location
(para. 41).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii)   Definition and implementation of price control mechanisms for
the production of school books and distribution of textbooks
in grades 1 to 3 of schools involved iin the educational reform
(para. 44).
(iii) Additional professional personnel for the PIU (para. 48).
(iv)   Establishment of a curriculum and examination procedures for
accountants (para. 50).
(v)   Employment of consultants (para. 51).
(vi)  Periodic consultation on the provision of counterpart funds
(para. 52).
(vii)   Implementation of adequate auditing procedures (para. 58).






< < ; '   ' t - 4 X i     xE               ^                        ,,a,^ z\~~~~-
| ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  V                                                           '  e3ŽX
_                                                       4 o   =    S  WS <- / f 5   f   <   <   's   _
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
43-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
I        n d A                9 ;, DIN                    -  



