IDocument of
The World Bank
ORtOCl,  USE ONrv
Report No 10707
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
(LOAN CREDIT PROJECT
(ON2031-AR)
JUNE 8, 1992
MI CROF I CHE C()PY
Report No. 10707-AR   Type: ( PCR)
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 , T  07:3/ OEDD3
Infrastrcutur  and  nrg jvso
country Depergy 
LatinAz Depa t      TV ~          io
Aerica and the Caribbe8   ein,Ofc
their   Orrlcial   d. s   "   "estricted   d
tis t cnet"ti'tOn8d=%



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANADE             Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
GdeE               Gas del Estado
PCR                Project Completion Report
YPF                Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales



THE WORLD BANK                FOR omc  USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
US.A.
OffiCe P4 '>ieCtoqf-CA*f&I
Op(*imons Evaluation
June 8 . 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Argentina
Oil and Gas Credit Proiect (Loan 2031-AR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Argentina - Oil and Gas Credit Project (Loan 2031-AR)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
flQJ7.CT COMPLETI-ON REPORT
ARGEMNTA
OIL AD GA CREDIT PROJECT
(Lomz 2031-AR)
Table of Contents
SPate No.
Preface............................ i
Evaluation Sumary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  * l
Part I
1  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2e  Background  .... . . .                  . . . . . . . .  .  1
3.  Recent Sector Development Objectives  . . . . .  . . . . ..  3
4.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .  3
5.  ProJoet Design and Organization   .. . .. . . . . . ..     . 4
6. ProJet Implementation        .... ............  .................. 5
7. ?ro1ect Resalts . . . . . . . . . * * * * , *  * * * * *   * 7
8. B   Perforamnce   . .. . . . . . . . . . .. * * * a     * *. 9
9.  Borrower Performance  *.        11. .s...... 0 011
10. Lessons Learned . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
11. Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . .                12
12. Consultancy Services    . . . . . . . . . ......... 13
13. Project Documentation and Data  . .    . . . . . . .         13
Part II
1. Borrower's Covaents  . . . . . . . . .  .      .  .  .  .  .  . 14
Part III
1. Related Bank Loins   . . .  . .                               15
2.  Project Timetable .   0 0 .00... 0.         0.  00000.       16
3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Diaburemnts    .        17
4. Allocation of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . .  .  .     . . . . . 18
5. Project Costs and Financing . 000.   19
6.  Suary  of Subloans 000.   0 * * *        *   0 0       0    20
7.  Financial Statements of BANADE  0 .0... 0...0.               21
8.  BANADE'o Staff  . * . . . . . . * * 0   0 0  *   * * 0 o o   0 0  24
9.  Status of Covenanta . .000000 . . . . .         0 .     . . . 26
10. Use of Bank Resources . . .   o   . .... *   * * * *..        . . .. 29
Map No. IBRD 22330
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
OIL ANrD GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2031-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Oil and Gas Credit
Project in Argentina, for which Loan 2031-AR in the amount of US$ 100.0
million was approved on July 7, 1981. The loan was closed on December 31,
1988, three years behind schedule, and the undisbursed balance of US$ 23.1
million was cancelled. The last disbursement was on May 30, 1989.
The PCL was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Division of Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III). On September 28, 1989 the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III
with the request to prepare Part II. The above request was reiterated during
the visit to BANADE in March 1990, but no reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR is based inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, Project and Guarantee Agreements for the loan, Project Supervision
Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2031-All
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The project objectives were to support the Government's policy of
increasing private sector participation in oil and gas exploration and
development and to improve sector efficiency. It provided long-term financing
for exploration and development projects, including pipeline and gas treatment
lants. The project included a technical assistance component for BANADE to
uild up its appraisal and supervision capability of oil and gas projects.
Furthermore, the project was expected to act as a catalyst for attracting
comuercial banks to provide financing for the oil and gas sector.
Implementation Exoerience
The loan was approved on July 7, 1981, sCined on October 2, 1981 and
declared effective on December 30, 1982.  The Closing Dtte originally
scheduled for December 31, 1985 was postponed untll December 31, 1988, because
of repeated delays in project implementation. The Bank canceled the remaining
loan balance of US$23.1 million. Among the factors that seriously hampered
project implementation were: (i) BANADE's lack of decision regarding the
hiring of foreign consultants needed to help appraise subprojecta and train
BANADE's staff; (ii) Government decisions and policy framework that
overregulated petroleum exploration and development activities; (iii) disputes
between Government and private companies over the price of the hydrocarbons
produced by the private sector; (iv) frequent and lengthy delays in
procurement decisions and approvals by BANADE and; (v) the financial crisis in
the country (para. 6.1-6.4).
BARADE's financial situation started to deteriorate soon after the
project commenced. The introduction of regulated interest rates in 1983, and
the obligation imposed by the Government to finance assets (loans) with
BANADE's own resources at negative interest rates, contributed enormously to
its decapitalization. Major causes of BANADE's financial crisis were also its
deteriorating loan portfolio and its poor collection performance (para. 7.4).
Results
Loan Component. Under the loan, BANADE financed a total of eight
subprojects among four private enterprises; seven of these projects are still
in BANADE's portfolio. One project has been fully paid, the rest do not have
payment problems, and none represent a risk vith respect to the soundness and
efficiency of the petroleum development subproject financed. The total amount
that the Bank financed was US$76.3 million (58Z) and the remainder US$56.3
million was financed by internal sources. The average size subloans was
US$9.5 million and the total average subproject size was US$16.5 million. All



iii
the subprojects have demonstrated financial-economic viability, with an
average ERR above 302 (para. 7.1).
Technical Assistance Comonent. The project contributed to
institutional building by developing BANADE's capacity to identify, appraise
and supervise oil and gas projects. But BANADE'Os effectiveness was hampered
by inadequate management information systems and rigid personnil policies
(para. 7.2). Under the project, a special department in BANADE for oil and
gas was established and its staff received on-the-job training (para. 7.5).
Sustainabilitv
BANADE's financial situation has been staadily deteriorating. BANADE is
under an overall process of reorganization and its future is not clear.
Project sustainability cannot reasonably be expected, unless radical changes
occur within BANADE's management.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The project was somewhat successful in encouraging private firms to
participate in oil and gas sector development and partially met the objective
of providing long-term financing for sound oil and gas projects. This was a
"first of its kind" project for the Bank, ;hich carried with it the risk of
dealing with an institution with no experience in oil and gas lending. This
risk was well met by the project technical assistance component. The project
did not meet its other objectives of: (i) strengthening BANADE institutionally
and financially so as to ensure project sustainability; and (ii) attracting
coummercial Banks to provide subproject financing.
Major lessons learned from this project include:
(a)   More attention shr-ld have been given to the quality of BANADE's
overall management and financial capacity. A comprehensive plan
of action addressing BANADE's institutional problems (status of
loan portfolio, arrears, etc.) should have been developed. It
should be noted, however, that the Bank and BANADE had developed,
via other ongoing projects, a number of "action plans" which were
not met.
(b)   In its overall dealings with BANADE9 the Bank should have been
firmer in seeking compliance with institutional targets, and
remedies should have been considered.
(c)   Private sector participation was limited by an inconsistent and
inadequate policy framework. More recent developments which aim
at implementing far reaching sector reforms should make a more
lasting contribution to aehieving sustainable energy sector
development.
(d)   In the future, lines of credit shou:d be established with non-
governmental bankia.
(a)   Sector training agencies should encourage adequate staff training
units with broad mandates, not only to assess needs, but also to
define and fund long term plans to address them.



PROJECT COMPLETlON REPORT
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2031-AR)
Part I
1.   .'ro1ect Identity
Project Name:     Oil and Gas Credit Project
Loan Number:      2031-AR
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:          Argentina
Sector :          Energy
Subsector:        Petroleum
2.   Background
2.1   The abundant and diverse potential energy resources of Argentina
include: crude oil, natural gas, hydropower, nuclear, biomass and coal.
Argentina's energy sector historically has been characterized by a limited
capacity to produtce crude oil and natural gas needed to meet the demand
required for the country's internal consumption. The supply of electricity,
which used to be reliable, has been characterized recently by frequent
shortages. Over the last decade, natural gas production increased 51 per year
and is projected to grow 4% per year to the year 2000. This reflects an
energy resource strategy shift from crude oil to natural gas, as well as
hydropower and nuclear energy based on a reassessment of the resources. At
the current production rates, the proven reserve/production ratio for crade
oil is about eight years and for natural gas about twenty years. Projected
future demand for liquid hydrocarbons will be much more difficult to supply
from known sources, which means further exploration will, be required. Given
the constraints on public sector resources, most of the exploratory work will
have to be done by the private sector.
2.2   Production of crude oil fell 14S between 1981 and 1987, caused
mainly by a consistent decline in YPP's (Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales)
crude oil production, which accounts for two-thirds of all crude oil
production in the country. There were two main causes for this decline: (i)
natural depletion of older reservoirs; and (ii) fewer wells were drilled
during the above period, because of limited funds for new investments. YPF
was forced to cut its planned investments because the Government, facing major
fiscal constraints, did not authorize all the funds required for new
investments in exploration and production of crude oil. Also, Government
policies restricted private sector exploration and production investments in
YPF's producing areas, under production service contracts with private
companies. In 1985, the Houston Plan was devised tV attract further private
sector participation. The plan has provided the country with the



2
participation of international petroleum companies through coiperative
ventures with local private oil companies. The imain characteristic of the
Houston Plan is a guarantee that payment of services would be made in
exportable crude oil, in the event that YPP is unable to make timely payments
in foreign exchange. However, it is noteworthy that about 75Z of the
drilling effort to explore and develop new reserves of crude oil and natural
gas is carried out solely by YPF with public funds. The remaining 252 is done
by private oil companies, both national and foreign. While this effort has
been adsqntate to maintain Argentina's policy for ealf-sufficiency in the past,
and in meeting present consumption needs in crude oil and natural gas, proven
oil and gas reserves will clearly be insufficient when measa-"--' against the
rapid growth in demand for crude oil and natural gas expecto ter the next 20
years.
2.3  Dwiring the period 1981-1989, the finances and operations of the
energy sector were heavily influenced by macroeconomic factors and certain
economic developments affect:ing public finances. The economic system
dominating the energy sector was characterized by a high level of taxation
imposed on all energy sector activities. There were many distortions in the
composition, structure and coord:nation of the various energy subsector
investments. In particular, the investment strategy and policy framework
guiding the hydrocarbon sector discouraged exports of crude oil. Financial
distortions were particularly large in the energy sector; it has estimated
that indirect subsidies by Y'F and GdeE (Gas del Estado) were about
US$1.5 billion a year for thA past ten y-e..s
2.4   Key public sector enterprises in the hydrocarbon sector are YPF
(the state oil company) and Gde! (the state gas company). YPP wae established
in 1922 and structured as a corporation, and over the project period accounted
for about 701 of total crude oil and more than 802 of all natural gas
production. Additionally, it maintained a controlling relationship over the
private sector companies that produced the remaining hydrocarbons. YPF
generated important revenues for the Government, which in 1988 totalled about
US$7.0 billion (grora revenue, including fuel taxes). YPP was the only
institution that holds petroleum rights for exploration and production areas
in Argentina and controlled the majority of refining and marketing activities.
All private companies, both local and international that participated in the
exploration for or production of hydrocarbons performed their activities under
service contracts with YPP. GdeE was established in 1946 as a Government
enterprise to provide natural gas distribution as a public service, and this
role was reiterated in 1978, explicitly ruling out any economic purpose. Gde!
purchases natural gas from YPF (although important amounts are still imported
from Bolivia). GdeE processes natural gas to remove hydrocarbon liquids, then
transports the gas to distribution centers, where it is marketed to end users.
GdeE also produces and markets LPG (propane and butane) and other byproducts,
such as ethane and natural gasoline. A multiplicity of Government agencies
oversee the operations of YPF and GdeE, as well as those of other state energy
enterprises, which have contributed to create institutional sector
inefficiency.



3
3. Recent Sector Develorment Obiectg%es
3.1   Although self-sufficiency in energy has been a long-term major
Government objective, this goal has not always been achieved. Crude cil
production rates in recent years have exceeded additions to the resource base.
Still significant potential exists to increase crude oil production and to
uind addxtional volumes of natural gas.  The objective is to achieve least-
coat energy supply to the consumer. Begivning in 1989, the Government of
Argentina initiated a two-pronged approach to revitalize the hydrocarbon
sector by:  (1) deregulation of the hydrocarbon sector, which will result in a
system of price competition and economic efficiency, and (ii) restructuring
YPF and GdeE.
3.2   The following measures have already been enacted to achieve the
Government objectives in the hydrocarbon sector: (a) reduction of crude oil
and natural gas royalty payments to 122 of their international value (Law
23696); (b) increase incentives for private sector investment in crude oil and
natural gas production (Decrees 1055, 1212, and 1589); (c) increase private
sector involvement in the retail distribution of petroleum products; (d)
adoption of a plan to deregulate prices of crude oil, petroleum products and
natural gas, and allowing free availability of crude oil and refined products
by January 1, 1991; (e) elimination of preferential prices for electric power;
(f) virtual elimination of refinery taxes by their reduction from 101 to 0.2?;
(g) extending the vilue-added tax uniformly to all fuels; (h) simplifying the
system of earmarked funds; (i) increasing natural gas prices to 902 of fuel
oil for industry and power, and establishing netback pricing principles for
natural gas producers (Decree 1212); and (j) reduction of some subsidies
benefitting the private sector.
4. Proiect Objectives and Doscriltion
4.1   The primary objective of the project was to support the
Government's efforts to strengthen the role of the Argentine private sector in
an accelerated program of oil and gas production by: (a) providing long-term
financing for sound exploration, primary and secondary recovery projects,
including pipelines and gas tre<atment plants; and (b) providing technical
assistance to develop BANADE's institutional capacity to identify, appraise
and supervise oil and gas projects. The project was also expected to act as a
catalyst, through BANADE, to mobilize resources from foreign and local banks
for properly screened subprojects and would be a vehicle for sectoral policy
discussions with the Govam- ent.
4.2   The project would provide US$99 million of long-term funds to
finance subprojects in oil and gas sector development. Subloans would help
finance the foreign exchange component of eligible subprojects, to be
undertaken by private Argentine companies, which had been awarded an
exploration or development contract by YPP. A US$1 million technical
assistance component would help increase BANADE's appraisal and supervision
capacity for petroleum lending.



4
4.3    The total subproject Investment was estimated at US$500 million,
and the total incremental crude oil production to be obtained was estimated at
50 million barrels over the life of the subprojects. The estimated financing
would be from equity contributions of about US$125 million, the Bank loan of
US$99 million and the remainder from commercial sources and BANADE. ..fter a
slow start and limited project implementation, the Bank canceled the remaining
loan balance of US$23.1 million.
5. Proiect Design and Organization
5.1   The project Was prepared in line wi.h the Government of Argentina
main objectives for the hydrcG-rbon sector. It was aimed at overcoming the
financial and institutional constraints that were inh,' iting increased
participation by the Argentine private sector in the develo mtant of
Argentina's promising hydrocarbon resources and to help the country move
towards petroleum self-sufficiency. The project, which was the first the Bank
had designed involving private oil and gas companies, was expected to act as a
catalyst to attract parallel financing from other sources. The conceptual
foundation for the project was thus clear and consistent with newly
established procedures for industrial credit projects.
5.2   The project was identified by a Bank mission in August 1979.  In
mid-November 1979, the Government of Argentina requested the Bank assistance
in financing an oil and gas project. The Bank reacted favorable and sent a
project preparation mission in late June 1980. Close coordination was
required between BANADE and YPF at the policy and operating levels to enable
BANADE to program its oil and gas lending on the basis of YPF's plan to award
contracts, and to give BANADE access to bidding and technical information
necessary in the appraisal of specific subp-ojects. Negotiations took place
in May 1981 and the loan was approved on July 198. and  signed in October
1981, but did not become effective until December 1982.
5.3  Loan disbursements were projected to take up to five years from
mid 1982 through 1986. This included provisions for retroactive financing of
up to US$5.0 million. The disbursement period, relatively short when compared
to other Bank supported oil and gas credit projects in Latin America, was
supported by the experience of the Argentine petroleum firms and of the
foreign suppliers and service firms operating in Argentina that are well
represented in the country.  However, the disbursements were slow because of
political and economic problems affecting Argentina and inefficiencies of
BANADE's management (para. 6.4).
5.4   All the pi..curement was to be in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Oil fields contracts were awarded in accordance with established commercial
practices in the petroleum sector, which are acceptable to the Bank.  she
exploration and deveiopment subprojects were based on contracts awarded by YPF
through international competitive bidding. The project was scheduled to be
cmpleted 'Uy June 30, 1985 with a Closing Date of December 31, 1985.
5.5   During the preparation and the appraisal of the project, several
important issues arose: (a) institutional arrangements; (b) external



5
auditing; (c) price of hydrocarbon products; and (d) interest rates on
subloans. These issues are discussed below.
5.6   Institutional Arrangements:  During the preparation of the
project, BANADE had to prepare a statement of policy on oil and gas
operations. BANADE had to establish an oil and gas section within a division
which could deal with energy projects in general. MANADE contracted several
petroleum geologists and petroleum engineers to help in the evaluation of
projects, and hired a consultancy firm to train BANADE's itaff on technical
aspects of oil and gas lending. The main objective was to develop sustainable
general oil and gas project appraisal and supervision skills within BANADE.
The Bank suggested the possibility of using the project's technical assistance
to establish a broad-based training program that would supply a large number
of qualified personnel to the banking sector.
5.7   External Auditing:  BANADE had been audited by a special unit of
the Central Bank. However, during preparation of the project, the Central
Bank was no longer able to allocate adequate staff for this task. Therefore,
BANADE requested that the Bank should accept an alternative arrangement,
involving an independent Government auditor. During the negotiations, the
Bank agreed to the contracting of auditors and supervision through SIGEP, and
that an audit report be prepared for 1980 as a condition for Board
presentation. Also, it was rireed during the same negotiations both the scope
and timing of the audit, as well as the establishment of separate accounts for
the proposed loan.
5.8   Price of Hydrocarbor- Products.  At the loan negotiations, the
Government agreed to provide a letter of intention in which it agreed to
adjust petroleum products prices peziodically to reflect adequately changes in
internal price levels, taking into account the results of the natural gas
optimization study financed under Loan 1880-AR. Aloo it was agreed that final
consumer prices of petroleum products would, at the minimum, be maintained in
real terms at the March 31, 1981 levels, as measured in constant dollars.
These covenants were only met partially by the Government of Argentina.
5.9   Interest Rates on Subloans.  During appraisal, interest rates on
subloans were set at the Bank rate (at that time 9.6S) with a minimum of 22
for BANADE's spread, and an additional 2.02 minimum fee to cover the cross-
currency risk. At loan negotiations, the Bank recommended a minimum on
lending rate of 13.52 in dollars, since BANADE indicated tnat it would prefer
to lend only in US dollars. However, since the beginning of the project's
life, this level of interest rates and the fact that interest rates were
fixed, caused problems in obtaining the agreement of interested companies for
taking any loans under the project.
6.    Project Implementation
6.1   Completion of the project exceeded appraisal estimates by about
602 of the original completion date, and by about 502 of the loan Closing
Date. The project experienced delays throughout its implementation, and
especially at the beginning of the project execution. For more than a year,
BANADE failed to meet the loan conditions of hiring technical consultants to



6
help appraise projects and to train BANADE's staff on the technical aspects of
oil and gas lending. Argentine Law 18775 prevents public institutions from
hiring foreign consultants without local participation in the form of
partnerships or consortia, unless it can be proved that there are no local
companies capable of meeting these requirements. BANADE mistakenly believed
that the Bank's procurement guidelines were irreconcilable with the Argentine
legal requirement of foreign consulting firms. The Bank clarified that those
legal requirements were acceptable to the Bank, provided that the association
with local partners would be on a voluntary basis, that sufficient firms would
bi availab'e in the country from whom foreign consultants could chose their
local partners, and that the respective scope of responsibilities of the
partners would be freely agreed upon. Ad&itionally, implementation of the
project was hampered by the financial crisis affecting the whole country and
virtually all its private and public institutions, primarily in the form of a
large fiscal deficit, absence of foreign exchange reserves, inability to
service foreign debt and high rate of domestic inflation. These resulted in
two extensions of the Closing Date from December 31, 1985 to December 31,
1988.
L.2 A factor that accounted for the slow use of loan proceeds was the
Government's policy framework that regulated petroleum exploration during the
project implementation period. Until 1982, official Government policy was to
rely increasingly on the priva-e sector for exploration and development of new
hydrocarbon resources. After 1982 and during 1983, political uncertainties
regarding economic policies of the new civilian Government and attitudes
towards the role of the private sector, made it difficult to persuade the
private sector to commit major new investments for exploration and development
of hydrocarbon resources. An additional factor that contributed to the slower
use of loan proceeds was the constant disputes between the Government and the
private firms over the price of the crude oil that they produced, which was
totally divorced from the price paid b'y the public for petroleum refined
products. Also, the bad experience acquired by several investors, made them
wary of the arrangements under the plan that called for repayments denominated
in US dollars related to investments denominated in local currency. Later, a
revision was requested by BANADE, and the project was amended to meet these
problems.
6.3 Procurement-related problems also slowed down project
implementation. BANADE's Energy Department had no prior experience with the
Bank's procurement procedures. At the beginning of the project implementation
cycle, subproject approval often took more than three months. However,
subproject approval started to speed up in 1984,when exploration contracts
were awarded by YPF through international competitive bidding, and also
because most Argentine firms had good experience in the preparation of bidding
and tender documents. Also, most companies normally formed ad hoc consortia
to bid on YPF9s contracts and procurement decisions of the operating partner
in the consortium usually were the subject of scrutiny by the other partners.
6.4 Disbursements of the loan did not take place for almost two years
after project approval. In the meantime, BANADE's financial situation
deteriorated significantly. To encourage and accelerate the use of the loan,
an additional amendment was introduced to allow working capital financing for



7
industrial firms for imported goods. A working capital facility of
US$25.0 million was established, as well as provisious for the use of funds
for working capital purposes, which would be for two years and with repayment
for up to three years. Later in 1985, the Bank approved BANADE's request to
adjust the amortization scheduled in line with the repayment schedule of its
subloans. Maturity already due was reduced from US$4,165,000 to US$695,000.
It was envisaged that BANADE would service the Bank loan with subloan
repayments, but at that time, BANADE had not yet received any service payment
from its sub-borrowers. This was due to the slow project implementation, as a
result of the prolonged recession and total disarray of the country's
financial system, which affected BANADE's cash flow as well as the sub-
borrowers ability to repay BANADE.
6.5   The Technical Assistance Component.  The main objectives of the
technical assistance were accomplished. There was a slow initial
implementation in setting-up the specialized Energy Department within BANADE
for oil and gas projects, due to delays in hiring a foreign consulting firm
(para. 6.1). The development of suitable appraisal and aupervision procedures
for the newly created Energy Department and the training of the department's
staff was eventually accomplished. After that the Energy Department staff
acquired sufficient competence and expertise to ensure suitable supervision of
subprojects. BANADE and the Bank agreed not to retain the foreign consultant
firm on a permanent basis. However, the Bank requested BANADE to continue
retaining foreign consultants on an ad hoc basis to cover specific aspects of
the subprojects, such as: determining the adequacy of the exploration
programs, certification of the feasibility of the production plans,
professional judgement on the capacity of the investment enterprise's
technical services for properly implementing the subprojects, etc. The Bank
also agreed that the cost of the consultants could be assigned to the sub-
borrowers (amendment 3.02 of Loan Agreement).
6.6   Proiect Cost.  Based upon data supplied in March 1990, the total
cost of the project reached US$132.1 million, of which US$76.3 million (58.02
was financed by the Bank). In 1987, after seven years of implementation,
total disbursements reached only US$27.7 million, 27.7Z of the loan amount.
The Bank approved two consecutive one year extensions from December 31, 1986
to December 31, 1988. The final disbursement waa made on May 30, 1989.
7.    Proiect Results
7.1   The Loan Comvonent.  The project was closed on December 30, 1988,
after the loan account was closed, with the cancellation of the undisbursed
balance of US$ 23.1 million. The project's objectives of providing long term
financing for sound primary and secondary recovery and exploration projects,
and to develop BANADE's institutional capacity to appraise and supervise oil
and gas projects, were partially achieved. Under the loan, BANADE financed a
total of eight subprojects, including four private enterprises (BRIDAS, ASTRA,
PLUSPETROL and CADIPSA). The total cost of the project was US$ 132.6 million,
out of which Bank financing was US$76.3 million (58Z) and the rest
US$56.3 million (42Z) was provided by internal sources. Private banks were
reluctant to provide financing for this type of project because the guarantee
provided by the contract between YPF and the private hydrocarbon producers



8
were deemed insufficient. Large enterprises were the beneficiaries of the
subloans and most of them financed their subprojects using internal resourcep.
The average size of the subloans was US$9.5 million and the average total
investment size of the subprojects was US$16.5 million. Subloan terms were
between three and eight years, including the grace period. The largest
subloan approved (US$20.0 millicn) was to the Cahiadon Sico and Meseta Espinoza
project (ASTRA), which involved the drilling of 30 nei. wells, repairs in 54
existing wells, and also construction of roads and surface installations. One
subloan has been fully paid, and the rest are still in BANADE's portfolio.
None of the subprojects are having re-payment problems and neither represent a
risk with respect of the soundness and efficiency of the petroleum development
subprojects being financed. All the subprojects have demonstrated financial
and economic viability. Preliminary data has shown an average ERR of above
30% for all subprojects, except the single exploration subproject. Part III,
Section 6 provides a listing of all subprojects financed under Loan 2031-AR.
7.2   The project contributed to institutional building by developing
BANADE's capacity to identify, appraise and supervise oil and gas subprojects.
Although this main objective has been achieved, BANADE is still hampered by
some fundamental problems. BANADE is a development bank with severe
decapitalization and other financial problems. Frequent political
interferences contributed towards the deterioration of BANADE's total
portfolio.
7.3   BANADE improved substantially its capacity to appraise and
supervise oil and gas projects, biut the project did not improve BANADE's
financial position; it even deteriorated significantly during implementation
(pars.7.4). During the last few years, BANADE's resource allocation function
was heavily distorted and negatively influenced by the Government.
7.4   The 1981-89 financial situation of BANADE is shown in Part III,
Section 7. Net equity decreased from US$138.4 million in 1981 to
US$34.7 million in 1989, a deterioration of 752. BANADE's total assets grew
only 1.32 compared with a 36.7% increase of its portfolio. This severe
decapitalization of BANADE has been the result of increased arrears of the
current overall portfolio resulting from the financial-economic crisis of
Argentina during the last years, aggravated by BANADE's poor collection
efforts. Additionally, the introduction of regulated interest rates since
1983 and the need to finance assets (loans) with BANADE's own resources at
negative interest rates have contributed enormously to its decapitalization.
Profitability of BANADE has been weak during the same period, as a result of
higher provisions and administrative expenses, which increased more than 502
during 1981-88. On an annual basis, administrative expenses (of which
personnel is about 702) represent on the average about 1.2Z of the assets,
somewhat above the 0.5-1% benchmark normally used for development banks
worldwide. This deterioration of BANADE's financial position is clearly
reflected in its debt/equity ratio of 17.7:1 in 1988, greatly exceeding the
limit of 10:1 established in the Loan Agreement. However, as stated earlier,
the major cause of BANADE's financial crisis has been its deteriorating loan
portfolio and its poor collection performance. During last year BANADE, has
put great priority in a process of accelerated collections and debt
cancellations through prepayments and debt swaps involving significant



9
discounts. BANADE's almost negligible net worth as of December 31, 1989,
coupled with the uncertainties concerning loan guarantees and its overall
portfolio, plus the foreign exchange risk provisions, have made it almost
certain that the institution is, technically speaking, bankrupt. Recently,
BANADE has embarked on a profound restructuring aimed at converting it into a
second tier bank. However, it is still unclear if the new BANADE will be
financially viable.
7.5 The Technical Assistance Comoonent. The objective of this
component, which was to help strengthen BANADE's appraisal and supervision
capacity for petroleum and gas lending, was achieved through the contract of a
foreign consultancy firm. Additionally, a special division for oil and gas
projects was established in BANADE and its staff received on-the-job training.
Only US$0.6 million was used from the US$1.0 million allocated for technical
assistance, due to BANADE's decision to discontinue this assistance. BANADE
demonstrated to the Bank that its staff had already acquired sufficient
competence and expertise to ensure suitable supervision of the projects.
Three Argentine geologists and three petroleum engineers were hired
by the Energy Division in the framework of tha project. The technical
assistance program was regarded as acceptable by the supervision missions.
7.6   Proiect Sustainabilltv. No sustainability of the project can
reasonably be expected, unless tremendous and radical changes occur in
BANADE's management. From 1982, BANADE's financial situation has continuously
deteriorated and this tendency iG still continuing. Weakness in management
had not been addressed, until the Government intervened BANADE in May 1990.
3BANADE is currently under a process of reorganization and its future role is
still not very clear. BANADE's impact on the industrial sector is limited
since it has become a paralyzed institution with a rigid structure and
inadequate procedures, not capable of performing a useful role as an adequate
tool for industrial financing in Argentina. Obviously, any analysis of BANADE
is determined by the present situation and role of the financial sector in
this country.
8.    Bank Performance.
8.1   Taking into consideration that this project was the first Bank
project involving private oil and gas firms in Argentina, overall Bank
performance was satisfactory. The Bank maintained its dialogue and close
relationship with BANADE throughout the life of the project. The Bank reacted
fast to the Government of Argentina's request to improve sector efficiency by
strengthening the role of the local private sector firms in oil and gas
exploration. At the time of preparation and appraisal, the institutional
arrangements for project implementation were weak; therefore, appropriate
steps were taken during the appraisal and subsequent stages to strengthen
BANADE's Energy Division. The Bank's performance in bringing about
institutional changes during supervision was less convincing, despite the fact
that the policies for change had been set out by the Government. During
appraisal, the Bank adequately highlighted the need to improve BANADE's
financial performance.



10
8.2   The Bank's assistance was instrumental in improving the execution
of the project. Since the beginning of the project implementation, the Bank
played a major role in strengthening the Oil and Gas Division within BANADE's
Mining Department and in streamlining bidding and disbursement procedures.
Only after Bank missions had reviewed in detail BANADE's procedures in
processing disbursoements (not only for the World Bank financed subloans, but
also for all BANADE's loans), did the Bank accept from BANADE the submission
of the same documents that are usually prepared for BANADE's own internal
control. The Bank, in order to speed up disbursements at the beginning of the
project implementation, accepted the statement of expenditures as a basis of
disbursements for subloans. A very positive contribution regarding
Argentina's high inflation rate was showed when the Bank ac:epted the
historic parity procedures" It to determine the percentage of eligible local
purchases that the Bank would agree to reimburse in current local currency.
BANADE justified to the Bank the use of loan funds not only to f4nance
directly oil and gas exploration, production and related transpott and
treatment facilities, but likewise for the purchase of equipment for oil and
gas exploration and production by service contractors. Many local firms are
engaged in this activity, as contractors to both private oil companies and to
YPF. Several oil production companies directly involved in exploration and
production also provide their services to the industry as contractors. As a
result, the Bank agreed to the amendment of the Loan Agreement and redefined
the meaning of "Investment Project". In view of the low rate of applications
and disbursements, and the financing needs arising in connection with some
sub-projects during the project implementation, the Bank broadened the
definition of eligible sub-borrowers. This allowed BARADE to finance
consortia, in which Argentine firms only participated with a minority
interest, but which in turn were seeking out sources of external financing for
the development of their respective areas in Argentina. An additional
positive contribution by the Bank was its acceptance cnd corresponding
amendment for the provision of working capital financing to eligible sub-
borrowers.
8.3   The number of supervision missions appears to have been
sufficient. Supervision efforts were sustained through full or partial
missions from project effectiveness to Closing Date. There was an average of
2.2 missions per year. The major supervision weakness was the lack of
attention paid to BANADE's financial situation and in some respects to its
internal project approval and supervision procedu as. Furthermore, of the
total 17 missions, only four missions included a financial analyst, reflecting
the Bank's lack of attention to BANADE's need for institutional help during
the period of financial crisis. The Bank only tried to speed up procedures of
sub-loan approval, rather than to aasess BANADE's reaosons for the delays, and
making the system more efficient. Supervision reports focused mainly on the
1//   This procedure is the following:  (a) converting the original documented
expenditures into US dollars at the historic exchange rate prevailing at
the time of payment; (b) reconverting the US dollars amount so obtained
into local currency at the exchange rate prevailing when the
disbursement ap4lication is being processed; and (c) applying the
permissible rate of Bank financing to the latter amount.



11
technical evaluation of the sub-project, but were brief on the analysis of the
financial issues of BANADE. They made no references to the worsening
macroeconomic situation, insofar as it affected the project objectives.
Comments on the economy were only made in relation to loan disbursement flows.
No analysis was performed of the cash flow situation and quality of BANADE's
portfolio.
8.4   During the supervision phase, the Bank appears to have been too
lenient in accepting delays in the submission of inadequate progress reports,
sub-project indicators, procurement and approval procedures information from
BANADE. However, the Bank supervision missions provided a good opportunity to
supply specialized techn4cal assistance to BANADE's staff, which was helpful
during the project implementation.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1   The project was properly identified and prepared.  Project
preparation and design were satisfactorily carried out by BANADE's staff and
with adequate assistance from the Bank. Over the implementation period,
BANADE developed accepcable sub-project appraisal procedures and capabilities
for this kind of cred-.t operation. The sub-projects were evaluated by teams
of financial analysts, geologists, engineers and accountants, who devoted most
the their time to analyzing the technical merit of the sub-loans, as well as
the past and present economic-financial situation of the enterprises.
However, BANADE's supervision during project implementation was weak, limited
to physical inspection, with the purpose of verifying expenditures. BANADE's
performance was slow in implementing the overall project and reportedly failed
to respond to the Bank's request for improved and faster project
iplementation.
9.2  During the project implementation period, BANADE's Energy Division
acquired adequate competence and expertise to ensure suitable evaluation and
supervision of the sub-projects. This was satisfactorily accomplished by the
technical assistance component of the project (see para. 7.5). BANADE hired
three geologists and three petroleum engineers, which were incorporated to its
Energy Division in accordance with the guidelines for the project. As of
today, BANADE is well equipped to appraise oil and gSa projects.
9.3  BANADE's recommendations were instrumental in establishing the
accounting procedure. needed for the re-evaluation of assets of the sub-
borrowers (BRIDAS, ASTRA, CADIPSA and PLUSPETROL). Due to the large
devaluations of the Argentine currency with respect to the US dollars and
because of high rates of domestic inflation, the Argentine Government had
created a complex array of regulations pertaining to dollar-denominated
liabilities hold by Argentine companies. BANADE's provision of funds was
positive in reaching those investment projects, in an environment where access
of term financing was limited although demand was great, in spite of the
increased risk of borrowing dollars or dollar-indexed pesos, because of the
political uncertainties of the country.



12
10.   Lessons Learned
10.1 A lesson from this project is that sensitive issues such as the
development of an efficient financial intermediary with a sound financial
discipline and relevant influence within the sector, cannot be solved during
the appraisal of a credit project targeted to a single sub sector. Further,
the Bank should devote special efforts and continuous attention to the
institutions it finances, and for this purpose the technical assistance
resources should be sufficient and clearly targeted. This is particularly
important in the case where the Bank is supporting an already well established
institution like BANADE, with built-in resistance to changes in procedures
that have been operating for more than forty years. BANADE was selected as
the Borrower because it was the oaly large financial institution in the
country dealing with the energy sector. Furthermore, the Government had
pledged to put it on a sound basis. The Bank should have continued to stress
the need for the achievement of financial self-sufficiency as a majo'
objective for BANADE, and should have established clear financial performance
targets to monitor the development of BANADE as a sound financial institution.
The debt/equity ratio alone is not an appropriate tool to evaluate the
evolution of the cash flow of a financial institution.
10.2 The Bank should insist on a better and more comprehensive
preparation of some institutional building components, especially those
related with management and financial issues. In future loans, the Bank
should continue to be flexible, where necessary, in adapting financial
covenants to changed circumstances, but also should be ready to make difficult
decisions needed to enforce them.
10.3 A final lesson is that achievement of the project's main
objective, to increase private sector participation in oil and gas
exploration, was ultimately undermined by an inconsistent and inadequate
policy framework. More recent policy initiatives, which aim at implementing
far reaching sector reforms, should make a more lasting contribution to
achieving sustainable energy sector development.
11.   Proiect Relationship
11.1 Over the full period of the loan implementation, BANADE, together
with the Bank and the relevant Argentine authorities maintained an adequate
relationship and good understanding concerning some of the constraints for
project implementation. The relationship was characterized by the lack of
continuity of both staff and managers working on the project both in Argentina
and at the Bank. However, the open working relationship was beneficial to the
achievement in some degree of the project'  objectives, where the Bank
responded in a flexible way to BANADE's requests. However, the Bank should
have been firmer in its efforts to strengthen BANADE's financial performance
and should have put more stress on building up BANADE's institutional capacity
needed for addressing adequately its increased involvement in the hydrocarbon
sector.



13
12.   Consultancy Services
12.1 In general, the consulting services for the technical assistance
to BANADE were satisfactory. The consultants were contracted to help appraise
sub-projects and to train BANADE's staff on the specialized technical matters
related with oil and gas lending (parae 6.5). The quality of the consultant
work vas good and they proved efficient in assisting BANADE's Energy Division.
13.   Proiect Documentation and Data
13.1 Project documentation and data include legal documents, the staff
appraisal report (SAR), the missions' back-to-office reports, supervision
reports, and progress reports provided by the Borrower.
13.2 Legal agreements and SAR were adequately prepared and generally
comprehensive and did serve adequately during project implementation.
However, the progress reperts were submitted sporadically and did not reflect
financial aspects or the Borrower. Supervision mission reports did provide a
good comprehensive picture of the technical matters of the sub-projects, but
rarely of the institutional-financial aspects of the Borrower. There is a
lack of continuity between them, and it is sometimes difficult to get an idea
of the evolution of the situation between two supervision missions. This
problem should no long occur with the newly adopted Form 590.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2031-AR)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORRoWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Following old procedures for the preparation of Project Completion
Reports, the Borrower preparsd a brief suamry report describing the work
undertaken by the consultants, and including information of the office
equipment procured, recomaendations made by the Energy Division to Banade's
Board of Directors for sub-projects approval, chronological progress, and
allocation of loan fun.o   Tho observations of that report have been
essentially summarized in Part I of this report, and the original version in
Spanish is in files at the LAC Information Center.
2.          To prepare Part II of the PCR, the Borrower was again requested
but responded by authorizing the release of the report without Part II.



15
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
PART III bASIC DATA
1.   Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title            PurDose        AnDroval   Status         Comments
Oil and Gas         To improve           1980       Closed    The study for the
Engineering         information on oiJ                        optimization of
Project             and gas reserves.                         natural gas
Loan 1880-AR        To study the                              utilization was
optimum                                   successfully
development and                           oompleted, and a
utilization of                            computerized
natural gas.                              model was
developed, but
the model was
never used.
Refinery            To assist YPF to   1981         Closed    Project has been
Conversion Project redress the                                 successfully
Loan 2032-0-AR      imbalance in the                           completed,but
product slate of                          with delays on
its two main                              project execution
refineries - La                           caused by
Plata and Lujan de                        political and
Cuyo, mainly be                           economical
eliminating fuel-                         instAbility, lack
oil from refinery                         of counterpart
output.                                   funds and
inadequate
staffing.
Refinery            Same as above        1986       Closed
Conversion Project
Loan 2032-1-AR
(Supplemental)
Gas Utilization    To increase tha    1985          In        There are some
and Technical       production of                   progress delays due to
Assistance Loan    crude oil and                    p rlitlcal au d
2592-AR             condensates and to                        financial
expand the use of                         difficulties,
natural gas.                              mainly lack of
counterpart
funds.



ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
2.    Prolect Tletable
Date           Date           Date
Item                Planned        Revised        Actual
- Identification                                           08128/79
- Preparation                                              07124/80
- Appraisal Mission         10130180                       10/30180
Loan Negotiations         01101/81       03/09/81        06/16/81     Supplementary letters were requested by the Bank, regarding
BANADE Audit procedures, YPF's biddlng conditions, pricing of
petroleum productsa
- Board Approval           05122/81                       07107181
- Loan Signature            10102/81                       10/02/81
- Loan Effectiveness       01105/82        04102/82        12130/e2     Effectiveness was delayed due to BANADE's non-compliance on
hiring foreign consultant firms to help BANADE's appralsal
procedures and training of its staff.
_ Loan Closing              12/31/85                       12/31/88     Closing  Date was extended due to lmplementation delays.
- Loan Completion          06/30/88        06/30/89       04/30190      Last Bank disbursement on 05/30/89.
Coments: Issues Raised at Different Statess
1.    In mid-November 1979, the Government first expressed its Interest In Bank Involvement.  The Bank attachet  a high priority to
dealing with the Oil and Gas Credit Project. In August 1979, the Bank organized an Identification mission.
2.    A  reparation mission followed in July 1980. At this stage some of the main issues were:  (a) weak management of BAlADS;
(b  need of training program for BAKADK's staff; (c) supervision capabilities of BAnE; (d)  quality of portfolio.
3.    Project Appraisal was carried on from October to November of 1980 that allowed the Bank and the Borrower to agree on (a) final
defluition and scope of the project; (b) retroactive financing up to US$6.0 million; (c) level of consumer prices for petroleum
productsl (d) terms and conditions of subloana; and (a) auditing arrangements for BANADE.



17
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COIHPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual DisbursementiA'
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85    M86    Y8Z   FY88   FY89
Appraisal Estimate        14.00   38.00   69.00   96.00  100.00
Actual (9130189)          --      0.05   15.58   20.28   27.72   61.47  76.86  76.86
Actual                    --      --     22.60   21.12   20.28   27.72   61.47  76.86
Date of First Disbursement            01/11/83
Initial Loan Closing Date             12/31/85
Actual Closing Date                   12/31/88
Date of Last Disbursement             05/30189
1/   A total of 23.14 million was cancelled from the undisbursed portion of
the loan.



18
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT
(LOAN 2031.AR)
4.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$Millon)
OTHER
BANK   SOURCE   TOTAL
1.  Roads                                                 1.3      0.5      1.8
2.  Exploration and Development Drilling                 50.9     20.0    70.9
3.  Equipment and Transportation                          1.2      0.5      1.7
4.  Geology and Geophysical Studies                       2.2      0.9      3.1
5.  General Expenses                                      0.6      0.2      0.8
6.  Other Investments (petroleum installations)          20.1    33.7    53.8
TOTAL:   76.3    55.8   132.1
PERCENTAGE:   (58Z)    (42Z)   (1002)



19
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
5.    Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Sub-Polect Costs
(USS million)
ESTIMATE                         ACTUAL
FOREIGN                          FOREIGN
LOCAL   EXCHANGE   TOTAL         LOCAL   EXCHANGE  TOTAL
1. BRIDAS         40.6       62.5     103.1         26.2      38.4     64.6
2. ASTRA          30.1       27.0      57.1         20.2      24.0     44.2
PLUSPETROL      7.2        6.6      13.8          4.4       6.6     11.0
4. CADIPSA         17.5      10.5      28.0          5.0       7.3     12.3
TOTAL         95.4    106.6       202.0         55.8      76.3     132.1
B. Sub-ProJect Financing
(US$ million)
ESTIMATE                              ACTUAL
INTERNAL                               INTERNAL
SOURCE    BANK   BANADE   TOTAL        SOURCE      BANK   BANADE  TOTAL
1. BRIDAS        40.6       42.6   19.9      103.1        13.3       38.4    12.9    54.6
2. ASTRA         30.1       27.0    -         57.1        20.2       24.0     -       44.2
3. PLUSPETROL     7.2        6.6    -         13.8         4.4        6.6     -       11.0
4. CADIPSA       17.5       10.5    -         28.0         5.0        7.3     -       12.3
TOTAL        95.4       86.7   19.9      202.0        42.9       76.3    12.9   132.1
Note: BRIDAS includes three subloans: US$17.1; US$5.0 and US$16.1
ASTRA includes two subloans: Astralcapsa US$18.3 and ASTRAFOR US$5.7 million.



ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
6.    Sumnarv of Subloans
Loan         matuity Interest                                               Amount          Local        Total
mont        (Yers)7        Hat6u                                         Disbursed      luvestment  Investment
Enterprise          Sub-project    (USS :housands    (Yers)            M                  Objectives              (UJS$ thousands)
1.  BRIDAS            Acambuce A-1       BANK              8            13.5-12.0   Exploration of Acambuce area,                17.248       12.335       29.583
(SAPIC)                              38.465                                     basic studies and drilling.
ARUADE            5           6.0
19.920
2.  BRIDAS            Acusbuce B-1        5.455            8            13,5-12.0   Drilling, Seismic lines for                   4.997        2.622        7.619
(SAPIC)                                                                         development and geology
studies.
3.  BRIDAS            lendoza A-6        18.575             6           12.0         Equlpment purchases                         16.142       11.282       27.424  0
(SAPIC)
4.  ASTRA -           Kilometro. 20    7.000                3.5         12.0        Drilllng, Improvement and                     5.746        3.013        8.759
CAPSA                    A-3                                                    Repairs of Wells
5.  ASTRA -           CAADON SECO        20.000             7           12.0        Drllling, Well Repairs, Road                 18.261       17.158       35.429
CAPSA             lZSETA ESPINOZA                                               Construction
A-4
6.  PLISPETROL S.A.  Centenario B-2   4.707                 6           12.0        Drilling, Well Repairs,                       4.700        3.186        7.892
Equipment
7.  PLUSPETROL S.A.  RhNS B-3            1.050              6           12.0        Gas Plant Expansion, Civil                    1.850        1.282        3.132
Works
8.  CQDIPSA-WELBERS  CENRO WENCESLAO  10.500                5           12.0        Development, Exploration, and                 7.824        4.951       12.275
Well Repairs



21
ARGENTTH&
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDI-TPROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
7.    Financial Statements
A.     BAHADE - Balacce Sheets
1983     1984       1985      1986      1987      1988     1989,1
ASSETS
Cash and due from Banks                114.1    103.7       61.4       89.8    69.81    131.0        71.8
Government Securities                   71.0      45.4      37.1       26.4      12.4       9.8      18.0
Loams                                 2913.8   3026.7   3167.2   2846.8   3140.0   3180.0   2183.7
other Receivables for                 1570.3   1507.3   1588.5    1942.7   1557.9   1721.6   1386.4
Financial Inteendiation
Equity in Other Companes                32.6      49.9      48.8       25.6      14.5      24.6      26.4
Sundry Receivables                       3.5       5.5       7.7        9.8       8.5      10.3       1.0
Property, Plan and Equipment            13.4      19.6      24.9       24.9      23.7      29.3      23.7
miscellaneous Assets                      1.3      1.7        6.5       7.4       6.8       5.7       8.3
Unappropriated Items                    44.9      44.6      .0         47.7      47.7       8.8       1.4
Other Accounts
Total Assets:  4715. 3   4804.7   4981.5   5021.4   4881.8   5120.5   3720.9
Deposits                               241.8    243.4      174.3    227.0    261.8    204.6          75.3
Other Obligations                     4281.6   4336.0   4514.2   4457.5   4300.6   4551.2   3593.8
(for financil
intermediation)
Sundry Liabilities                      13.5       ).4       18.5      16.8      17.7      21.8      15.3
Reserves and Allowances                  9.6       7.4       8.7       18.1       7.5       4.8        .8
Item' Pending Allocation                37.6       46.1     51.0       54.2      44.3       4.2       1.0
Total Liabilities:   4584.3   4642.4   4766.9   4773.0   4632.1   4796.6   3686.2
Capital Stock                           19.3      12.8      28.9       98.4      54.5      39.3    217.1
Non-capitalized Contributlons           17.8    123.5      121.8       77.6    135.1    223.0
Monetary Adjustments
Aggregate Capital Adjusament             9.9      11.3       12.9      28.1      45.3      63.8
rotit Reserve
Retained Earnings                       36.5      14.4      50.7       44.0      14.6    (2.2)       50.4
Adjustments of Accrued Earnings                                                                     232.8
Total Equitys    .30        162.3    214.5       248.3      49.7    323.9       34.7
Total Liabilities and
net Worth:   4715.3   4804.7   4981.5   5021.4   4881.8                   3720.9
Contingent Liabilities                1973.2   1877.9   2022.5   2134.3   2148.7   5120.5
I/Preliminary Data



22
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
B.    BAUADE - Debt/Eauitv Ratio
Original Loan            1985 Loan
Agreement              Amendment
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988         1989
1. Debt/Equity Ratio
(Including Coatiagencies)
Consolidated Loan-Term Unsecured
Max. Loan Agreement                                                        10:1
Requirement                n/a     n/a      lOl     10:1    10:1
Actual                  n/a      n/a      4.6:1   8.5:1   9.2s1   7.9:1
Consolidated Unsecured
Max. Loan Agreemeut
Requirement                n/a     n/a      15:1    15:1    15s:1    15:1
Actual                  26.3:l  26.4:1  18.7:1  20.6:1  21.5:1  17.7:1
Consolidated Loan-term
Max. Loan Agreement
Requirement                10:1    10:1    28sl    26:1    23:l    20sl
Actual                  26.3:1  26.4:1  18.7:1  20.6:1  21.5:1  17.7:1
Source: BANADE, Contaduria 1988



23
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
C.    BANADE  - Income Statements
(US$ Million)
1981     1982      1983       1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      19891'
Financial Revenues           722.2    637.6    710.2    1603.5   1310.3    757.7   1495.6    2824.3    1917.0
Financial Expenditure.   (533.9)  (494.7)  (462.7)  (1020.7)  (877.7)  (464.0)  (998.4)  (1929.3)  (1523.0)
Charge for Bad Debts       (183.9)   (95.6)  (200.9)   (387.4)  (237.4)  (166.6)  (327.8)   (602.2)   (402.0)
Subtotals       4.4      47.2      48.5      195.3    195.2    127.0    163.2         292.8      (7.0)
Revenues from Service          15.4     13.9      20.2       35.0      32.0      19.1      22.5       21.6        11.0
Expenditures from             (1.8)    (0.9)    (1.7)        (2.7)    (3.8)    (1.2)    (2.6)         (3.5)      (1.0)
Service.
Monetary Result from             -                        (201.9)  (145.0)   (75.5)  (134.6)    (182.1   (144.0)
Financial
Intermediation
Administration               (39.8)   (17.2)   (23.3)    (40.4)   (38.4)   (49.4)   (53.6)    (60.1)    (22.0)
Expenses
Other Income                   62.2     68.1        2.5       24.0     33.0      95.0    118.3        101.3      110.0
Other Losses/Expenses       (15.0)   (17.2)   (23.3)    (40.4)   (38.4)   (49.4)   (53.6)    (60.1)    (22.0)
Monetary Result for              --        --        --       15.2       8.2   (12.0)   (34.3)    (78.3)
Other Operations
Net Result for Period:        25.4      93.8      34.5        9.8      49.0      43.3      14.0    (20.0)    (232 0
1/Preliminary Data



24
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
8.   BANADE Total Staff
YEAR                                    NUMBER
1978                                    4,033
1979                                    3,972
1980                                    3,841
1981                                    3,761
1982                                    3,666
1983                                    3,686
1984                                    3,647
1985                                    3,581
1986                                    3,422
1987                                    3,274
1988                                    3,188
1989                                    13,161
1990                                    2,346



25
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COt4PLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
B.   PANADE Staff Distribution
YEARS      HAQARTERS  BRANCHES  TOTAL
1985               21117        1464    3581
1986               2000         1422    3422
1987               1899         1375    3274
1988               1867         1321    3188
1989               1874         1287    3161
1990 (March)       1589          757    2346



26
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
9. Status of Coverv.nts
Covenant
LCr
Atreeent                   Descriotion of Condition                Status         CcQcents
2.02 (Amend.)          A- Disbureement of funds from the loan          Complied
for sub-projec - would be (1) 1002 of the
foreign exchange cost of direct imports,
(ll) 602 of total expenditure of foreign
equipment purchased off-the-shelf, (ii)
452 of total expenditures for locally
supplied goods and services, and
(iv) 1OO2 of the foreign currency cost
and 452 of the cost in pesos of services.
D- No withdrawal shall be made in respect
of a sub-loan or investment or Working
Capital loan unless the amount of ouch
sub-loan or investment together with any
other sub-loan and investment made for
the same Investment Project shall not
exceed the equivalent of twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000,000). Some
exceptions applied to this covenant.
E- The proceeds of the loan shall be
allocated as follows: (i) sub-loans and
investments $ 54,000,000 equivalent;
(il) Technical Assistance $1,000,000
equivalent; (iii) Working Capital loans
$35,000,00 equivalent; and (iv) Initial
Deposit $1,000,000.
2.09 (Amend.)          The Borrower shall cause to be opened and   Complied
thereafter maintained a Special Account
in dollars in the Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Payments out of the Special Account shall
be made exclusively to pay the reasonable
cost of goods and services required to
carry out the Project.
3.01 (b)               The Borrower shall carry out the Project    Complied
and conduct its operations with qualified
management and personnel, including
competent staff experienced oil and gas
operations.
3.02                   The hiring of petroleum engineers and          Complied   Although with
geologists for the energy division, and                    significant
the selection of an appropriate                            delay, the
consulting firm would be conditions for                    covenant was
the effectiveness of loan.                                 finally complied.
3.03 (Amend.)          Ci) Sub-loans shall be denominated and         Not         All loans were
repayable in Pesos; (ii) the principal of   Complied   denominated in US
sub-loans shall be adjusted according to                   dollars.
an index satisfactory to the Bank.



27
Covsnt
La/Cr
Atreement                 Description of Condition             Status         Cments
3 04                  The Borrower undertakes the right to
require that the investment Project or
Working Capital Beaeficiaryt (1)
maintains a separate account In respect
of the investment Project; (ii) causes
such amount to be audited each year by
independent auditors; (iii) furnishes to
the Borrower a report with such audits.
3.05                  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at   Complied
regular Intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan.
3.06                  The Borrower shall duly perform its                     The funds
obligations in a6reements under which                   mentioned in the
funds have been lent or otherwise put at                coveuant were not
the disposal of the Borrower by the                     lent and were
Guarantor or its agencies for relending                 returned to the
investment or management.                               Argentine Central
Bank.
3 08                  The Borrower shall open and there after      Complied
maintain in the Account Bank an account
on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including, iater alia, the
maintenance of value of the amounts
deposited into such accounts in term of
dollars.
4.01                  The Borrower shall maintain procedures       Complied
and records of the Project and each
Investment Project.
4.02                  The Borrower shall:  () have its             Complied   Significant
accounts and financial statements audited               delays.
for each fiscal year; (ii) furish them
to the uank no later than four months
after the end of each year.
4.06 (Amend.)         Te BJ:rower shall maintain, at all           Partial    By December 1988
titcis .i ration of consolidated long-term              BAEADK would have
un tE-Guid debt to consolidated capital of              not been in
nce znrv  than 16 to 1 during 1985 and                  compliane vith
thi -'  ..er. A ration of consolidated                  the debt/equity
long term debt to the consolidated                      ratios; if
capital of not more than 28 to I during                 Central Bank's
the year 1985, 26 to 1 during the year                  norms about
1986, 23 to I during the year 1987 and 20               proisions had
to 1 in the year 1988 and each year                     been applied.
thereafter.
4 07                  The Borrower shall protect itself against   Not
risk of loss resulting from changeo in       Complied
the rates of exchange betweean currencies
used in its lending and borrowing.
3.01 (a)              It Is a policy of the Bank that no other    Yes         The borrower has
external debt shall have priority over                  complied with Its
its loans.  The Guarantor shall secure                  contractual
the principal and Interest of the Lean by               obligations.
an equivalent lion on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bak.
3 02                  The Guarantor shall cause YPm  to provide    Yes        YmP has provided
the Borrower information on YIPP's                      to BANADE tke
activities as shall be necessary for the                information
Borrower to projram it oil and gas                      requested.
lending operations.



28
Covenant
La/Cr
Atreernet                 Doecrintion of Condition               Status        C2enta
3.04                  The Guarantor shall bear, and promptly         Yes        According to
compensate the Borrower for, any lose                     BANADE, there
incurred by the Borrower on account of                   were no looses
fluctuations on the rates of exchange                     incurred by theo
between the Peso and the currencles in                    as a conoequance
which the Loan Is repayable.                              of exchange rate
fluctuatilons.



29
ARGENTINA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2031-AR)
10. Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inouts
Stage of Project Cycle                               Staff Weeks  Staff Weeks
(Plemed)        (Revised)
Through Appraisal                                    N.A.              21.82
Appraisal Through Board Approval                     N.A.              60.65
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                 N.A.               6.72
Supervision                                          N.A.              80.19
TOTAL:                     169.38
B.   Missions
Activity       hoath/  Number of       SpecialUation          so. of   Perfotmace  Types of
Year   Persons          Represented           Weeks      Rating    Problema
Identification      06/80       2      EGR, ECN                    2            M/A         N/A
Appraisal           11181       3      EGR, ECN, INA               2.2          N/A         N/A
Appraisal           03/82        2     EGR, ECN                    2            N/A         N/A
Appraisal           04/82        3     EGR,BCN,FN&                 2            I/A         N/A
Appraisal           06/82       2      EGR, ECN                    2            VIA         a/A
Appraisal           11/82        4     EGR, ECK, FRA               2.2          N/A         N/A
Subtotal:                                               12.4
Supervision         01/83       4      EGR, BGR, FNA               2            N/A         N/A
Supervision         04/83        1     EGR                         I            N/A         N/A
Supervision         06/03       2      ECG, ECN                    1            N/A         N/A
Supervision         07/83        1     EGR                         1            N/A         N/A
Supervision.        09/83       3      EGR, KCN, FNA               I            N/A         N/A
Supervision         10/83       2      EGR, ECK                    3            N/A         N/A
Supervision         03/84       3      KGR, KCG, FMR               2            N/A         N/A
Supervision         03/85       2      EGR, KCG                    I            N/A         N/A
Supervision         11/85        1     EG!                         1.5          I/A         N/A
Supervision         07186       3      EG!, ECg                    2            M/A         N/A
Supervision         11/87       2      EGR, ECK                    1            N/A         N/A
Subtotal:                                               16.5
TOTML:                                               28.9
Specialties:  Engineer a EGRs Economist - ECH Financial Analyst * INA



72_      -                                    BOLIVIA          6                                         456    '                      ' 
D  SEDIMENTARY BASINS                            BOIVA 
1. Norelste                                                s      ;            
2. Noree |teJjl                                                                                           . ....... .  .  .
3. olsones                             jDurn
4. soolois                                -ss      6 WGo<<  1             >           PARAGUAY  N
5. CuyonereanS l t >l>                                              z*R               
6. Mercdes                                                                               ,
76 Mw-11es                                                                   0                               >                                     J   S  J  >  OJp  t  >  AJBRAZIL
7leOollquo                  i_        ,    1     3 r~          y               X S // 0,9                                  i
II. M_,chdie,                                          T~
1. Del SClorodoo                        N         t
ItIDe1lColordo . 
12. Nirihoe                                                                              g  000I  0jc
13. Pi. Voi1ge
13 to.voles(                        ETU~MANJCHACO X                                                               v5?                 ----
14. CuI6 S. Jorge                                                                H
IS. A.o 0.0 SoMigueld  lcrh.                                  I>~ 
;'CATAMARCA                   SA TiAGO                   Resitncic&trd.sCC                             ,
16. M.-A.etro                                             .    TSa
17. R-wo       ~                                          niLL-e EsnJ                                 
18.5 Saollon MI\                                a          S       ,5E%E,
I      CORRIENTES
i  /   2 LA Rio                                                             2
J JUAN5 j~                t. -a<)A0naon                                   a 3SANTA"
COROBA   wo                     I  o
)2r>M*nozr]-             -         es          -    RoecriURUGUAY
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lJj
fMCENDOZA!- SAN                        --  4O%UENOS AIRES
- j3.a 7         't, /                 1   BUENOS/ -
- '._  Z L A   PA M PA                                               o
KNEUQUEo            EIMOdedit.o                          .                J        mardePlota
CIialI.6       N6oq6
ARGENTINA
    X   R I 0       u'   s  z                                    OIL INDUSTRY LOCATIONS
NEGRO
*  / u                        ,5                                                 *0      Crude Oil or Ntutral Gas Fields
4)     Refineries
U      Cude Oil Storage
<   n  j-  f   I  -> J    .                         I i   a  ProdedsStogroe
*,                                            a tC], *  h ^,    gz                             u       Airport Plants
./  Ranwson     -                    rr ,?                 . . - .-. Cnude Oil Pipelines
'                                           C         HUa     /7  V  ..S //  i < x - --- -- NnhIal Gns Pipelines
ProductsPipdliee
,260,  t       ,              (t //           / ,f-             ".----Pmusime
c.g.'. i    Cffl   tA/J,/ //  crJ        X                  --  -   CabotageSe  Routes
Soienb                     or Rmvodo &                  ' -                      -    EoportSea Rnutes
A '.       &            / J' . | ^  g - .' Petraleum Loeding Ports
CagqS9 %< iT 1 ,dsoe_,,    .                                       Maoring Hends
-F  -- '   Nx      Kjsco Trun2non                                                 A      Mar6tlieeg Plants
- -~; a  '   !    1 ;     t   //                                t                      Prvince Boundnries
/    ,  SAN T          A                                                         - ,   -SeA Intnetinol Boundaries
B-  1-RI<;  5  X   /             ,,.,18                 t                            RiBoo
1        / 1
I -                                                             N { V  4   !  F  &s   - -,                          SOUTH
i aD9?> e9S > X . ~~~~~~~~AMERICA
.~~~~~~1, ~ ~      ~         ~        1
-   '  Z l g~~~~P R A   D E L_-  
-  Rr        n     d~~~~~~ne,   -----'----                                                                   eAIRES
pII /s;,                                         N r  ,   ani    ;.,,.  ' 'KILOMETERS N  _
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
f  t?0              200        300       400        500 .
j   810  72'                     64>             MILES            516            1
N                        roed                                                                                       ou



