Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3321-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
May 26, 1981
Energy Department
This document hias a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(May 1, 1981)
Currency Unit = Peso (A$)
US$1.00 = A$3,190
A$1.00 = US$0.0003134
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
B        Barrels (42 US gallons, 159 liters)
BANADE   Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
B/d      Barrels per day
CFD      Cubic feet per day
ERR      Economic rate of return
FRR      Financial rate of return
GdE      Gas del Estado
GDP      Gross domestic product
GWH      Gigawatt hours (one million kilowatt hours)
KWH      Kilowatt hours
LPG      Liquified petroleum gas (propane/butane)
MW       Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
Toe      Tons of oil equivalent
WPI      Wholesale Price Index
YPF      Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE OIL AiND GAS SECTOR .............. .............                  1
A.  Energy Resources ......................................    1
B.  The Oil and Gas Sector ....1............................ 
Exploration ...... ................                        1
Production ................ . .......................    2
Refining and Transport ...........................         3
Domestic Demand ..................................         4
Imports .......     ..........................             5
Investment Program ...............................         5
Public Sector Institutions ..................              5
C.  Sector Issues and Bank Strategy ...............                  6
Issues ........ .................                          6
Bank Strategy ............ ........ . .................    8
II.   ROLE OF THE PRIVATE ARGENTINE FIRMS .......................    8
A.  Background ............................................    8
B.  Review of the Main Argentine Oil Firms ....         ............    9
C. Main Types of Contracts Between YPF and Private
Firms .11
D.  Operating Consortia and Joint Ventures .12
E.  Prospective Investments of the Private Sector and YPF's
Bidd:i'ng Program .14
F.  Sources of Financing for Petroleum Exploration and
Development Projects of Private Argentine Firms. .    15
This report is based on the findings of missions which visited Argentina in
July and November 1980 comprising Messrs. J. F. Zuniga-Rivero, N. V. Santiago,
and F. A. Batzella.,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the p=rformance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents  (Cont'd)                     -  ii -
Page No.
III.   THE  INTERMEDIARY--BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO  ....                         .........    16
A.   Organization and  Operations  ...........................    17
Board  of Directors,  Management  and  Staff  ....                .....    17
Operations  .......................................    18
B.   Oil  and Gas  Lending  ...................................    18
Past Operations .............                                              18
Appraisal  and  Supervision of  Oil  and Gas  Projects.    18
Future  Operations  in the  Oil  and  Gas  Sector  .... ..    19
Organizational Arrangements for Oil and Gas
Lending  ........................................    20
Project Pipeline, Size of Proposed Loan and
Cofinaning  .        ....................................    21
Coordination with YPF  ...............     *   ............    21
C.   BANADE's  Financial  Structure,  Results  and Projections  .    22
Financial  Structure            ..............................    22
Revenues and  Costs           ............... ................    23
Sources  of Funds  ................ .................    23
Quality  of Portfolio            .............. ...............    23
Auditing  Arrangements  ............. ...............    24
Financial  Projections            .............      ...............    24
IV.   THE PROJECT  ................................................                             25
A.   Background  and  Objectives  ..............................    25
B.   The Proposed Loan  ......................................    26
Terms  and Conditions  ..............................    26
Subloan Terms  and  Conditions  ......................    26
Subproject  Review  .................................    27
Technical Assistance  Component  ....................    27
Procurement and Disbursement  ......................    27
Advance  Contracting  and  Retroactive  Financing                   .....    28
C.   Benefits  and  Risks            ..................        ...................    28
Benefits              ..........................................            28
Risks .............................................    29
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......................    30
A.   Agreements Reached  ..........   i .......                ...................    30
B.   Recommendation            ....................         .....................    30



Table of Contents (Cont'd)        - iii -
ANNEXES
1-1 Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production (1975-1979)
1-2 Retail Prices of Principal Hydrocarbon Products
2-1 Sample of Argentine Private Companies Active in the Hydrocarbon Sector
2-2 Partial Listing of Hydrocarbon Exploration and Field Development Contracts
3-1  BANADE:  Organization Chart
3-2  BANADE:  Finanicial Statements
3-3  BANADE:  Policy Statement for Financing Exploration, Exploitation
and '['ransport of Oil and Gas
4-1 Loan Disbursement Schedule
5-1 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



ItIt



I. THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
A. Energy Resources
1.01      Argentina has a substantial and diversified energy base.  The
exploitable hydropower potential is estimated at about 200,000 gigawatt hours
annually (GWH, one million kilowatt hours (KWH)) representing a thermal
equivalent over 50 years of about 2.5 billion tons of oil equivalent (Toe); a
large part of these resources is far from load centers and requires relatively
high costs to develop. Proven reserves of crude oil at year end 1978 totalled
330 million tons (2.4 billion barrels (B)) and those of natural gas, 21.2
trillion cubic feet (520 million Toe), equivalent to 15 years and 50 years of
current output, respectively. There are also deposits of low quality thermal
coal, and potential for vegetable fuels (firewood, bagasse), geothermal, wind
and solar energy.
1.02      During 1970-75, primary energy output grew less than domestic demand
primarily because oil production declined. This resulted in a weakening of
Argentina's overall domestic energy position and increased petroleum imports.
A marked improvement took place from 1976 onwards. Primary energy output
rose from 1976 to 1979 by about 4.5 percent per annum. Crude oil output
increased and hydro capacity doubled, reaching 3,200 MW (megawatts, one
thousand KW) in the latter year. In 1978, energy demand totalled 42.3 million
Toe, which is comparable to other countries with a similar level of develop-
ment.
1.03      While energy resources are diversified, energy consumption depends
largely on hydrocairbons. Petroleum and natural gas, together accounting for
only 14 percent of' reserves, currently meet 56 percent and 26 percent, res-
pectively, of domestic energy demand. The hydropower potential, on the
other hand, represents some 60 percent of energy resources but meets only
about six percent of domestic consumption. Plans are underway to develop
25,000 MW of new capacity to balance resources and consumption. At the
same time, the Government has given top priority to attaining petroleum
self-sufficiency by the mid-1980's. Additional efforts in coal exploration and
a gradual expansion of nuclear power based on domestic uranium resources
complement the petroleum and hydropower programs.
B. The Oil and Gas Sector
Exploration
1.04      Argentina's oil and gas sector ranks third in output and fourth
in refining capacity in Latin America. In Argentina's 18 sedimentary basins,
the potential hydrocarbon bearing areas cover about 1.2 million sq. km on-
shore and 0.6 million sq. km offshore. Another 0.9 million sq. km of poten-
tial areas are loc:ated in water depths beyond the 200 meter line. Of these
basins, only six (see Map) are currently producing and their remoteness
from the main refining and consumption centers poses difficult logistical



- 2 -
problems. These are: (i) the Northwestern basin in the provinces of Salta and
Jujuy; (ii) the Cuyo basin in northern Mendoza and San Juan provinces; (iii)
the Neuquen basin situated in southern Mendoza, Neuquen, La Pampa and Rio
Negro provinces; (iv) the San Jorge basin in Chubut and Santa Cruz provinces;
(v) the Southern or Austral basin located in Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego
provinces; and, (vi) the Malvinas basin located mainly offshore Tierra del
Fuego. The Cuyo basin is probably the best known and most thoroughly explored,
while the least explored are the Southern and Malvinas basins.  Cumulative oil
discoveries since 1907 have amounted to about 5.6 billion B, of which 3.1
billion B have already been produced. After a decline in exploration in the
period 1970 to 1975 when private companies were virtually barred from it, both
geophysical exploration and exploratory drilling have increased since 1976,
and the decline in known reserves was reversed in 1978 when 272 million B were
added to this category, largely because of resumption of exploration by
private firms following the Government's policy of encouraging such activities,
under a system of risk contracts (para. 2.10).
1.05      Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF, the State Oil Company)
is concentrating its onshore seismic surveys in the Neuquen and North-
western basins. Private companies that have been awarded risk contracts
by YPF have stepped up both onshore and offshore seismic work.
1.06      Exploratory drilling activity (including extension and delineation
wells) has declined somewhat since 1974 mainly because of scaling down
by YPF; in contrast, exploratory drilling by private companies has increased
significantly. Drilling has been concentrated in the Neuquen, San Jorge and
Northwestern basins where several discoveries were made in 1978 and early
1979. At the end of 1978, one semi-submersible marine platform and 74
drilling rigs were active, of which 40 belonged to YPF. Of the remainder,
14 were providing services to YPF and the rest were operating in areas
contracted to private companies. By mid-1979, the number of active rigs had
declined to 57, but an upturn in exploratory drilling took place in the
latter part of 1979 and during 1980 when the number of rigs reached 69.
Production
1.07      After production declines during the period from 1973 to 1975
when YPF's performance deteriorated and private companies found prices
unremunerative, output of crude oil increased from the second half of 1976
onwards at an average of five to six percent per year (Annex 1-1).  In 1979,
output of crude oil and condensate reached about 173 million B, the highest
production ever.  This was brought about largely by private companies who now
provide about a third of crude output (see para. 2.03).
1.08      Output of natural gas, which is mainly associated with crude,
reached 1.2 billion cubic feet/day (CFD) in 1979 (para. 1.13).  Private
companies accounted for only about 15 percent of gross output in 1979, largely
because of the low prices set by the Government for natural gas until recently.
Reflecting the geographic distribution of crude output, natural gas produc-
tion is concentrated in Santa Cruz and Neuquen (about 54 percent of total



-3-
production in 1979i>), although the fastest growth is taking place in Tierra
del Fuego whose ouLtput is now about ten times its 1973 level and provides
about 15 percent of national output.
Refining and Transport
1.09      Argentina's refining capacity of some 705,600 barrels/day (B/d) for
primary distillation and 120,000 B/d in catalytic cracking, reforming and
related processes has been sufficient until now to meet domestic demand for
most products except for lighter and middle distillates. Most of the twelve
existing refineries are small and only four of them have a capacity of more
than 100,000 B/d -- the YPF refineries at La Plata (Buenos Aires province)
and Lujan De Cuyo (Mendoza), the Shell Dock Sud Refinery and the Exxon
refinery at Campana.  The two large YPF refineries (out of six owned by YPF)
are both based on advanced refinery processes (e.g., catalytic and hydro-
cracking) but their relative capacity to produce lighter and middle
distillates is below that of the private sector. To correct this imbalance,
which has resultecd in an excess of residual fuel oil, the Bank has appraised a
proposed Refinery Conversion Project whose aim is to increase the output of
higher value middle and lighter distillates by the two major YPF refineries.
1.10      In 1979, the average capacity utilization in all Argentine re-
fineries was about: 76 percent -- 85 percent for YPF refineries and 60 per-
cent for private refineries. This was due principally to insufficient
allocation of domestic crude by the Government to private refineries com-
bined with restrictions on crude oil imports. As a result of policy
changes aimed at minimizing processing and marketing costs of petroleum
products, domestically produced crude is now allocated according to in-
dividual refineries' share of the market for petroleum products.
1.11      In the t:ransport subsector, a system of pipelines is owned and
operated exclusively by YPF (crude and petroleum product pipelines) and
Gas del Estado (GdE, the state gas company) which has natural gas pipe-
lines.  Only 45 percent of crude and about one-third of products are
moved by pipeline, the remainder being transported by coastal tankers,
rail and road.  Crude oil pipelines total some 1,700 km in length and
0.43 million B/d iin capacity, and are concentrated in Neuquen and the
northern area. Crude from the southern production centers is transported
by tankers entirely owned and operated by YPF. Product pipelines amount
to 2,950 km and nearly 0.4 million B/d of capacity. Trunk pipelines for
natural gas extend along the length of the country, connecting the producing
areas in the extreme north and south with the consumption centers around
Buenos Aires. Gas pipeline capacity of 1 billion CFD is sufficient to meet
summer demand, but falls short of potential winter peak demand by about 20
percent, thus restricting gas use. Expansion of the northern and southern
trunklines and conistruction of a new pipeline from the gas-rich Neuquen fields
to the Buenos Aires industrial belt, to be completed in 1982, will ease supply
bottlenecks and aLlow better utilization of gas resources. Storage capacity
for crude oil and petroleum products is about 18 million B each or about 35-40
days' supply which is adequate in light of Argentina's relatively high degree



-4-
of self-sufficiency. For natural gas, very little storage is available. The
Bank-financed natural gas optimization study (para. 1.13) includes a review of
investment requirements for the transport and storage of natural gas.
Domestic Demand
1.12      In 1979, domestic demand for petroleum products including field
and refinery consumption amounted to about 193 million B. In 1978, trans-
port accounted for about 54 percent, power generation 20 percent, industry
15 percent, and the residential and commercial sectors combined, 11 percent. 1/
Estimates of consumption in 1979 indicate a similar demand pattern. Increase
in sales to final consumers from 1971 to 1979 averaged nearly 3.9 percent
p.a. Consumption of gasoline, which accounts for about 25 percent of total
product consumption, declined in 1974-75 when its relative price increased
substantially, but resumed afterwards its historic growth of 5.5 to 6.0
percent p.a. Consumption of industrial diesel and fuel oil fell due to
replacement by natural gas in industry and by hydropower in electricity
generation. Consumption of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) has been growing
fairly rapidly, replacing kerosene for household use.
1.13      Natural gas has become increasingly important for meeting Argentina-s
energy requirements. Industry accounts for nearly half of total natural gas
use, followed by power generation (20 percent) and residential, commercial and
Government sectors (about 30 percent combined). Natural gas consumption has
grown rapidly throughout the 1970s, at an average rate of close to nine
percent per year from 1971 to 1978. In the latter year, however, consumption
declined by nearly three percent, when demand by industry and by the power
sector fell. As previously mentioned, gas production is averaging about 1.2
billion CFD, but about 30 percent of this is being flared. Inadequate
utilization of natural gas has been caused by: (i) insufficient incentive
to producers due to low delivery prices paid by GdE; (ii) high gas-oil
ratios found in most new fields; (iii) transport and storage bottlenecks
particularly for the peak winter period; (iv) reluctance on the part of
large volume fuel oil consumers to shift to natural gas due to supply inter-
ruptions and higher gas prices (which were ten percent above fuel oil prices
until recently); and, (v) limited reinjection facilities for natural gas in
existing oil fields. However, as part of the Bank-financed Oil and Gas
Engineering Project (Loan 1880-AR), the Government is carrying out a study
which will analyze the optimum development and utilization of natural gas on a
regional and national basis, together with an assessment of alternative uses
for fuels to be replaced by gas and of related investment requirements.
Intermediate corrective steps are already being taken, including the raising
of prices paid to producers and the adjustment of relative prices to consumers
to make fuel oil more expensive to utilize. The country is also expanding its
gas gathering and trunk pipelines as well as distribution systems to be able
to reduce and eventually eliminate flaring of gas.
1/   Transport and industrial consumption include agricultural sector use.



5-
Imports
1.14      Argentina has traditionally enjoyed a relatively high degree of
petroleum self-sufficiency.  Net import requirements of crude oil and
petroleum products in 1979 amounted to just about 12 percent of domestic
demand, down from 15 percent in 1975.  Imports are higher for natural gas,
and amount to nearly 20 percent of domestic demand, due to previously-
mentioned reasons and a long-term import contract with Bolivia. The pro-
portion of hydrocarbon requirements met by domestic production has increased
from 82 percent in 1973 to 87 percent in 1979.  However, with the substantial
increases in international prices, the net oil and gas import bill for 1979
rose to about US$?1.0 billion compared to about US$400 million for the previous
year.
Investment Program
1.15      The investment program in the oil and gas sector during 1980-
85 aims at: (i) achieving self-sufficiency in crude oil by the mid-1980s;
and, (ii) improving the transport infrastructure for moving oil and gas
from production sites to the processing and consumption centers. The plan
is based on the assumption that total energy demand will increase by five
percent a year, while demand for oil will grow at a lower rate (four
percent a year) due to substitution of natural gas for fuel oil, expan-
sion of hydropowe.r production and energy conservation (para. 1.20).
1.16      The Government is in the process of updating the investment
program for the oil and gas sector.  A preliminary figure, based on projects
prepared by YPF and GdE, indicates investments in the public sector up to
1989 of about US$';16 billion equivalent (in 1979 prices); private sector
investments may ireach about US$10 billion over the same period (paras. 2.13
and 2.14). Exploration and field development are expected to absorb nearly 80
percent of the total investment. The Government has set the above mentioned
investment targelts in order to discover and develop at least 2.3 billion B of
additional crude reserves, which appears reasonable. This would help maintain
the reserves/prodluction ratio at 15 years throughout the 1980s. Transport
and distribution of gas would require about US$2 billion equivalent and
refining about US$1 billion.
Public Sector Institutions
1.17      The Energy Secretariat within the Ministry of Public Works is the
Government's mainL energy policymaking and administrative body. It consists of
two subsecretariats -- for fuels, including nontraditional energy sources, and
for electricity. Responsibilities of the Secretariat include: (i) pricing
and investment policies; (ii) the approval of exploration and development
contracts negotiated between YPF and private companies; and, (iii) development
of new energy sources and overall energy planning.



- 6 -
1.18      YPF, which the Bank deals with in connection with the Oil and
Gas Engineering Project, was established in 1922 and is the Government s
main entity for implementing oil and gas policy. YPF is a vertically
integrated company which operates in virtually every branch of the oil and gas
sector except marketing of natural gas and LPG. In 1979, it accounted for
about half of total exploration (in terms of meters drilled), over two-thirds
and 85 percent of crude oil and natural gas output, respectively, and 73
percent of petroleum refining. With assets of about US$6 billion equivalent
and net annual sales of about US$3 billion equivalent in 1979, YPF is a big
company even by international standards and is the largest in Argentina.
Negotiating and supervising exploration and development contracts on behalf
of the Government with foreign and local private companies (the latter would
be the subborrowers under the proposed project) has become an increasingly
important function for YPF with the growth of private sector involvement in
oil and gas activities.
1.19      GdE, a state enterprise established in 1957, is responsible for
importing, processing and marketing natural gas and LPG. The priority given
by the Government to increased utilization of natural gas in the country
will have an important bearing on its future development. However, expansion
of the company, which had some US$720 million equivalent in sales in 1978,
would be restricted somewhat by the Government's policy of encouraging in-
creased involvement of private firms in natural gas processing and trans-
mission. Thus, the new Center-West trunk pipeline is to be constructed,
owned and operated by a consortium of foreign and local private firms which
will transport gas for a set fee.
C. Sector Issues and Bank Strategy
Issues
1.20      Two principal issues affect the Energy Sector in Argentina:+ (i)
the inadequacy of energy planning, and (ii) the inappropriate pricing of
energy resources. These problems, which are partly interrelated, are being
gradually overcome. The Government is in the process of preparing a com-
prehensive energy plan, to which the Bank is providing significant contribu-
tions in a variety of ways. A study on a least-cost power expansion program
was funded under the FY76 Power Project. An audit of hydrocarbon reserves,
seismic surveys and the previously-mentioned natural gas utilization study
is being financed by the Oil and Gas Engineering Project. The country s
coal potential will be assessed in connection with the recently approved
Coal Exploration Project. The Government is starting to develop an energy
conservation program. As an initial step, the Government plans to carry
out an energy audit of major energy-consuming industries, with a view to
identifying priority areas and measures for energy conservation. The proposed
Refinery Conversion Project would finance part of the cost of the energy
audit which would focus on retrofitting possibilities among the major energy-
intensWve industries ior conservation purposes.  A proposed. sero43            -i-faX
credit project to the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE, the government-
owned development bank) would also include a component to finance retrofitting



- 7 -
by medium size industries. The Energy Plan now under preparation is intended
to integrate into one comprehensive document the preliminary results of the
various studies, including those being undertaken together with other agencies,
such as the U.S. Department of Energy, and previously-existing information.
1.21      Fuel pricing in Argentina is complex, and relates both to the
absolute level of fuel prices and to the relative pricing of various energy
sources at different stages from production to consumption.  Fuel prices
are Government controlled. From early 1976 until mid-1978, the Government
enacted substantial price increases at all levels, which measured in current
US dollars terms signified increases of about 40 percent for crude oil prices,
114 percent for retail prices of petroleum products, and 85-90 percent for
natural gas tariffs (see Annex 1-2). However, in an attempt to slow down
inflation, the G:)vernment kept these price increases significantly below
increases in the overall price level and in fuel import costs during late 1978
and 1979. Consecluently, by the end of 1979, prices of petroleum products were
below international levels, with the retail price of petroleum products
averaging US$0.75/gal.
1.22      Considerable progress to modify this situation has been made
during 1980 and 1.981 partly as a result of the dialogue with the Bank, espe-
cially in the context of the Oil and Gas Engineering Project. The Government
is implementing l new policy of increasing gradually prices of crude oil,
petroleum product:s and natural gas to a level which would generate sufficient
funds for YPF ancl GdE to service their debts and fund their investments, with
a view to reaching international price levels over the long run. Real price
increases for petroleum products for the year ending May 1981 have been about
16 percent. There have been some favorable changes as well in the structure
of relative prices, with natural gas now slightly cheaper for large consumers
than fuel oil.
1.23      In spite of recent peso devaluation, retail prices for petroleum
products in Argentina are now reasonable and above the CIF prices of imported
petroleum products, ranging from about US$2.09/gallon for premium gasoline to
about US$1.26/ga]Llon for diesel in May 1981. A large percentage of final
product prices, however, is accounted for by taxes and does not accrue to
crude producers or refiners. So far, however, crude delivery prices set by
the Government have been sufficiently attractive for private companies to bid
for YPF's exploration and development contracts (para. 2.10).
1.24      To ensuire reasonable consumer price levels of petroleum products in
the future, an understanding has been reached with the Government, in connec-
tion with the proposed project that consumer prices of petroleum products
should not declinie in constant terms (as measured by nonagricultural wholesale
price index) with prices at May 1, 1981 as the reference prices. The Govern-
ment has also stated its intention to continue adjusting petroleum product
prices periodically to reflect adequately changes in internal price levels and
international petroleum prices, taking into account the results of the natural
gas optimization study financed under Loan 1880-AR.



-8-
Bank Strategy
1.25      The Bank's strategy in the petroleum sector includes four main
elements. The first, which was initiated under the Oil and Gas Engineering
Project, consists of assisting in the planning of hydrocarbon development.
The Oil and Gas Engineering Project is expected to give rise to a number of
other projects, including exploration/development, gas recycling, secondary
recovery, and oil and gas transport infrastructure. Some of these projects
could be considered for future Bank financing. The second element consists of
institutional improvement in the public sector; both the Oil and Gas
Engineering Project and the proposed Refinery Conversion Project would
contribute significantly to institution-building of YPF. The third element of
the Bank's strategy consists of supporting the Government's policy of
increasing the role of the private sector in petroleum exploration and
development to achieve improved sector efficiency, which is the objective of
the proposed project. The last element involves engaging in a pricing/sector
policy dialogue with the Government.
II. ROLE OF THE PRIVATE ARGENTINE FIRMS
A. Background
2.01      Unlike other developing countries, Argentina counts on a well-
established group of about 45 locally-owned private firms operating in the
hydrocarbon sector. Local private firms began producing oil in 1916, in
parallel with the State owned oil concern and, later, with foreign investors.
Until the outbreak of World War II, private firms both foreign and local
accounted for roughly half of total domestic oil output; their share declined
to about 20 percent by the late 1950's, when total domestic oil production had
fallen to less than half of consumption. Subsequently, until 1976, the
development of the hydrocarbon sector was hampered by erratic shifts in
resource development policies which resulted in low efficiency of the state
enterprises, and an unfavorable investment climate for private companies.
After a short period of liberal investment policies in the late 1950's, most
contracts with foreign firms were annulled by the mid-1960's. This was
followed by new negotiations with the multinationals in the late 1960's, and a
spurt of investment and output until 1972, when renewed nationalistic policies
curbed private initiatives in the sector. This, combined with the prices of
oil, gas and products being held at unrealistically low levels, led to sub-
stantial declines in reserves, crude output and refining.
2.02      In 1976 the government introduced far-reaching policy changes aimed
at encouraging the private sector's participation in oil and gas exploration
and field development, as the key toward attaining petroleum self-sufficiency
by the mid 1980's. The government-owned enterprises, YPF and GdE, were
radically streamlined to improve the efficiency of their operations. YPF's
Iet,a  status was cbhange-d from a government agency to a state-owned corporation,
structured along private company lines. The Government instructed YPF to
farm out to private contractors, to the extent possible, the exploration of



-9-
new oil and gas reservoirs, and the development and exploitation of known
reserves requiring> new investments, especially as regards the marginal, more
risky and capital-absorbing projects.  Contracts were to be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, with foreign firms being encouraged to partici-
pate in the bidditng on condition that they associated themselves, even on a
token basis, with private Argentine firms. 1/ In 1978, new legislation
was passed specifically to regulate and encourage risk contracts for the
exploration of new reservoirs and their subsequent development by private
companies (or consortia of companies) winning area awards from YPF.
2.03      The private sector responded with growing eagerness to the new
policy orientationi of the government. With only one or two exceptions,
several bids were submitted for each contract offered by YPF for bidding,
so far. In the period 1976-79, private companies concluded 12 exploration
contracts and 18 production and secondary recovery contracts with YPF covering
85,000 km  and 5,100 km , respectively, and entailing minimum investment
commitments of about $1.06 billion. As a result, oil production by private
firms increased from 6.0 mil ion m3 in 1977 (24 percent of total domestic
production) to 9.6 million m  in 1979 (35 percent of total domestic produc-
tion), and is expected to increase further substantially, both in absolute and
in relative terms. The most significant participations of multinational oil
companies in YPF's contracts has been concentrated in the largest and riskiest
(but also potentially most profitable) exploration projects requiring capital
investments of a nmagnitude beyond the reach of Argentine firms. Typical of
this type of venture are the exploration projects in the south, mostly off-
shore, which are being undertaken by Exxon, Shell and Total with only minor
participation by Argentine firms.  Other large foreign petroleum firms, such
as Occidental, Amoco, Cities Services, Union Oil of California and Union of
Texas, as well as other companies like Fluor, Ascot, Butes and Blocker,
have preferred to participate with Argentine firms in smaller scale onshore
exploration and field development projects. Consortia made up exclusively of
Argentine firms hacve been awarded the bulk of the less risky onshore field
development and secondary recovery contracts, as well as the less capital-
intensive exploration contracts.
B. Review of the Main Argentine Oil Firms
2.04      About thirty out of the forty or so Argentine companies operating
in hydrocarbon exploration and production participate in one or more of
the consortia which have won the award of a YPF contract; the remainder
have limited themselves to providing specialized services (drilling, well
work-overs, well and equipment servicing and repairs) for a fixed fee to
YPF and to the major private operators. Of the companies which are
active in the mainstream of oil and gas exploration and field development
only about 15 possess the financial strength, the technical experience and
competence to act as "operators" in a consortium, i.e., to effectively
implement, with thbe financial support of the other members of the
1/   The purpose of this limitation is to foster the transfer of technology.



- 10 -
consortium, the work required under a typical YPF contract. The appraisal
mission acquainted itself with seven of the most active and experienced
oil firms in Argentina which are among the likely prospective borrowers
of the proceeds of the proposed line of credit.
2.05      Only three of these companies have assets in excess of $100 million
-- a respectable size in absolute terms, but quite modest by international
oil industry standards. These are Bridas, with total assets of about
US$330 million equivalent as of September 1979; Perez Companc, with about
US$270 million equivalent as of May 1980; and Techint, with about US$130
million equivalent as of June 1979. 1/ All three have been in operation for
over 30 years. Though petroleum activities constitute their principal
source of income, they are among the most diversified of the Argentine firms
operating in the hydrocarbon sector: Bridas and Perez Companc have assets
also in agriculture, forestry, mining, insurance and banking, while Techint
is an engineering firm involved also in the design and construction of civil
works. The next two companies in this group, Astra and Pluspetrol, are,
respectively, the oldest and the most recent of the seven, the former having
been active in petroleum production since 1916, while the latter was created
in 1977 from the merger of two engineering and construction companies. Both
concentrate on petroleum exploration and production, though Astra also
operates a refinery and a distribution network. Astra-s assets amounted to
US$63 million equivalent as of December 1979 while Pluspetrol's amounted to
US$58 million equivalent in March, 1980. The two other companies surveyed by
the mission were Quitral-Co and Inalruco, both active since the 1950 s, with
assets of US$23 million equivalent (June, 1979) and US$51 million equivalent
(June, 1980), respectively. Both are also quite active as members of
award-winning consortia.
2.06      All of the above companies have several contracts with YPF:  Bridas
and Perez Companc are each involved presently in eight contracts with YPF;
Astra and Inalruco, in seven; Techint and Pluspetrol, in four; and Quitral-Co,
in three. Each company is the operator in at least one of the consortia
holding the contracts and, in at least one other contract, participates with a
major foreign oil company, taking full advantage of the attendant transfer of
1/   Financial data for these companies should be considered indicative only,
and cannot be easily compared with each other, for three reasons: (a)
the difference among the closing dates of the companies- fiscal years
affects the significance of the financial information because of very
high inflation prevailing in Argentina (local currency has been converted
into US dollars at the official rate of each fiscal year's closing
date); (b) the accounting techniques adopted by each company to adjust
financial data for inflation are not strictly comparable; and, (c) there
are differences among the techniques adopted by each company to report
their participations in consortia and in the equity of other companies.
In particular it should be noted that, unlike fixed assets, holdings of
securities cannot be adjusted for inflation according to Argentine law,
so that the assets of companies holding a sizeable portfolio of shares
of other companies are considerably undervalued.



- 11 -
technology. At least one of the contracts in which each company participates
is an exploration contract (three in the case of Bridas and two in the case of
Inalruco) involving state-of-the-art technology and high risks. They are
well managed and have a competent technical staff. Their field operations,
visited by the mission, appear to be fully adequate. All seven of these
companies operate efficiently, with their lifting costs on average lower than
YPF's. The average contractual price for the oil they produce is about
US$16.50/B equivalent.
2.07      The financial situation of the seven companies varies from case to
case, but is generally satisfactory. The balance sheets of five of them show
a significantly positive net working capital, although two have a current
ratio of 0.6:1. TIeir total debt to equity ratio varies between 1:1 and 4:1.
The total indebtedness of these companies towards banks and financial
institutions ranges from 0.3 times equity to 2.3 times equity, the average
being around one times equity. A synoptic presentation of the principal areas
in which the seven companies are involved is given in Annex 2-1.
C. Main Types of Contracts Between YPF and Private Firms
2.08      According to Argentine law, all hydrocarbons belong to the State.
YPF acts as the Government's agent for oil and gas exploration and field
development. In this capacity, it can sign contracts with private contrac-
tors to carry out this function for specific areas and periods. Contracts
are regulated by the 1967 Hydrocarbons Law (No. 17,319) and by the 1978 Risk
Contracts Law (No. 21,778). Besides plain service contracts, under which
the contractor provides to YPF specific services for a given fee (which
would not give rise. to projects eligible for financing under the proposed
line of credit), the contracts requiring the contractor to invest and assume
on itself the related business risk fall into two broad categories: (i)
development, exploitation, and secondary recovery contracts; and, (ii)
exploration, or risk contracts. Certain common principles underly both
types. All contracts set the period during which a given area is assigned
to a contractor, the minimum amount of investment and/or technical work,
which the contractor undertakes to carry out, and the contractor's remunera-
tion, which is always linked to the amount of oil produced. Under all
contracts the title to the area's subsurface rights remains with YPF, which
holds it in the name of the State; hydrocarbons produced by contractors must
be delivered to YPF against the agreed fee, at least until such time as the
Government declares the country self-sufficient. At that point, contractors
may be remunerated partly in kind, and allowed to export their excess produc-
tion. All contracts are to be awarded to qualified private firms (meeting
tests of financial solvency and technical competence) on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding. Bids can be submitted either by individual
firms or by a consortia of firms. As previously mentioned, foreign firms may
participate in the bidding provided that they are members of a consortium in
which an Argentine firm 1/ also participates (irrespective of the percentage
of the latter's participation).
1/   Defined by law as companies which are registered in Argentina, and
which are, directly or indirectly, majority-owned (51 percent or more)
by Argentine nationals.



- 12 -
2.09      The characteristics of the different contracts vary considerably
within this general framework. The duration of contracts (after which
the contractors must return the awarded area to YPF, including the equipment
needed to operate the field) range between 12 and 20 years for development,
exploitation and secondary recovery contracts (depending on the complexity
of the work to be performed), with the possibility of extensions of up to
five years in case new reserves are discovered. Exploration (risk) contracts
are divided into two periods. The first period, for exploration proper, can
be up to five years for onshore, and seven years for offshore areas,
followed by a development and exploitation period, which can be as long as 25
years if oil or gas are discovered in commercial quantities. The contract's
term can be suspended for up to 10 years at the contractor's request, if
large natural gas reserves are found, to permit the construction of infra-
structure needed to collect and deliver the gas to GdE.
2.10      Until recently, many primary and secondary recovery contracts
were awarded on the basis of the remuneration expected by the bidders for
production in accordance with the minimum production curve defined by YPF,
with a system of penalties and premiums, but this did not provide sufficient
incentive to improve a field's yield. The system of contract awards is now
based on: (i) the bid price of the contractor per unit of output delivered to
YPF; (ii) the amount of minimum investment commitment (financial or physical)
which the contractor undertakes to carry out; or, (iii) a combination of both
according to given formulae. In the case of exploration contracts, the
minimum amount of investment to be carried out in specified phases of the
exploration period is always set by YPF, and the contracts are awarded on the
basis of the remuneration demanded by contractors for the oil and gas in case
of discovery. At the end of each exploration phase (normally the exploration
period is subdivided into three phases) the contractor must return to YPF 50
percent of the remaining area, unless a discovery has occurred. If the
contracted investments are not carried out, the contractor must pay to YPF an
amount equivalent to the short-fall. Performance bonds are generally required
to ensure compliance with this obligation. Both investment commitments and
the contractor's remuneration are adjustable to reflect domestic and inter-
national inflation. Most contracts, however, fix a ceiling of 60 percent of
international crude prices to the maximum fee payable by YPF for oil delivered
to it by private contractors, regardless of the adjustment formulae. So far,
this has not been a constraint to bids. During negotiations, an understanding
was reached with the authorities that this ceiling and other bidding conditions
would be adjusted from time to time, as needed, so as to assure the continued
interest of private firms in YPF's bidding program. An understanding was also
reached that contracts will continue to be awarded with due regard to economy
and efficiency in the execution of projects. The average payment by YPF to
private contractors for oil production under existing contracts is slightly
higher than one-half of the current international price of crude oil.
D. Operating Consortia and Joint Ventures
2.11      Out of the 30 or so development and production contracts currently
in existence, only six have been signed by individual firms; all the others,
as well as all exploration (risk) contracts, have been concluaea by Y?7 with



- 13 -
consortia of two or more firms. Since joint ventures have no legal validity
under Argentine law, such consortia amount to unlimited liability partnerships,
in which the partners are jointly and severally responsible for the execution
of the contract. The consortia are regulated by operating agreements among
the partners. One of the partners is designated as operator, and is in
charge of the physical execution of the contract, while the other partners
supply their share of investment funds. The partners share the consortium's
assets and liabilities in proportion to their percentage participation.
Decisions are made by a weighted majority of votes, and in most cases are
binding on all partners. In case of noncompliance of one of the partners,
the others have the option, after a specified number of days, of either
substituting themselves for the noncomplying partner (who thus forfeits all
his rights in the consortium) or of requesting YPF to designate another
suitable firm to take the noncomplying partner's place. The latter procedure
applies also to operators. YPF regulations and consortia operating agreements
generally permit any of the partners to pledge his rights deriving from
the contract as security against bank loans. They often grant to the lender
prior rights to production payments and, in case of the borrower's default,
the right to assume the borrower's rights in the consortium and to request
YPF to replace the borrower with another suitable oil firm.
2.12      An alternative to consortia is the creation of ad hoc corporations
for the specific purpose of bidding for a given contract. This would make
it easier to attract to hydrocarbon projects venture capital from non-oil
sources. Nevertheless, this system has been seldom used for a variety of
reasons. First,, tax considerations render consortia more appealing to
Argentine companies because they'can offset against the company's other
income the losses incurred during the long gestation period of exploration,
field development or secondary recovery projects undertaken through a con-
sortium, which is not possible when the project is undertaken by a separate
company. Second, according to Argentine law, a firm-s participation in the
fixed assets of a consortium can be revalued in the firm-s financial state-
ments to account for inflation, while investments in other companies' shares
must be carried at their historic cost.  Thus, investments in ad hoc corpora-
tions are not fairly reflected in the parent company-s balance sheet and lead
to an undervaluation of assets and equity and, therefore, of the company's
borrowing capacity. Third, foreign investors show a distinct preference for
consortia since minority participations in limited liability companies cannot
be reported on a consolidated basis according to most tax codes, so that
direct investments in fixed assets (as is the case with consortia) entail
considerable fiscal advantages. The above constraints to the creation of
specialized companies are only partially compensated, especially as concerns
investments in exploration projects, by a special provision of the risk
contract law which permits the full depreciation in the same year of invest-
ments in equity in an oil company, if such equity is used by the company
exclusively for financing hydrocarbon exploration. Another provision of the
same law allows companies engaged in hydrocarbon projects to carry forward
losses, for tax purposes, for up to 10 years, and to revalue them from year to
year to account for inflation, until they are written off.



- 14 -
E. Prospective Investments of the Private Sector and YPF's
Bidding Program
2.13      In order to achieve the authorities' goal of attaining energy
self-sufficiency by the mid-1980's, the private sector would have to invest
a minimum of US$5 billion over the next five years to barely maintain its
current share of Argentina's total oil production (currently 35 percent). A
precisely quantified projection of private investment is not possible;
nevertheless, on the basis of the industry's recent performance, of the
Government's stated intention to pursue its current policy of encouraging
private investments, of the indicative investment programs of the sample of
private Argentine oil firms visited by the mission, and assuming that suitable
sources of financing are present, private investments, foreign and local, in
oil and gas exploration and development through 1985 could significantly
exceed the above-mentioned amount.
2.14      In 1980 alone YPF offered for bidding seven exploration and six
development and secondary recovery contracts requiring, respectively, minimum
investment commitments of $140 million and $320 million (see Annex 2-2). The
actual investments which these contracts will require are likely to exceed
these minima by very sizeable margins: exploration projects, if successful,
will require large amounts of funds for field development, and production and
secondary recovery projects are likely to justify financially a flow of
investments well beyond the strict minima mandated by the contracts. Taking
into account these considerations, as well as the consistent trend of yearly
increases in YPF's yearly contract awards, these data are consistent with
the above estimates of total private investments.
2.15      The bulk of the funds is expected to come from multinational oil
companies, especially the more costly exploration projects, and their sub-
sequent development in case of success. Argentine private firms would have
to contribute between 25 and 30 percent of total private investments for the
desirable global investment program to be completed, given (i) the legal
requirement that foreign investors associate themselves with Argentine firms;
(ii) the added security against future nationalizations represented by the
participation of Argentine private capital in the consortia; and, (iii) the
lack of interest of foreign companies in the smaller field development and
secondary recovery projects. This would require about US$1.5 billion or more
during the disbursement period of the proposed line of credit (mid-1981 to
mid-1985). This order of magnitude is consistent with the current investment
programs of the seven firms surveyed by the mission. These firms plan to
invest, between now and 1983, based on the contracts they have already signed
and on the requirements of their projects underway, about $700 million. 1/
Whether the private sector investment plans will in fact be carried out within
the planned timeframe will depend to a very large extent on the availability
of appropriate financing.
1/   Three of the seven firms, Bridas, Perez Companc, and Astra, are committed
to investments in excess of %15f0 -mi3Allom each &xiixgixthe thkree7-eat
period; the investment commitments of another three, Techint, Pluspetrol
and Inalruco, range between $50 and $100 million; Quitral-co, which is
involved in only three projects, plans to invest less than $30 million.



- 15 -
F.   Sources of Financing for Petroleum Exploration and Development
Projects of Private Argentine Firms
2.16      Inadequate access to fresh capital and to bank credit has become one
of the key bottlenecks to a greater participation of Argentine private firms
in petroleum exp:Loration and development projects. Argentina's capital market
has very moderate depth; the oil industry is considered fairly risky, and
firms find it difficult to mobilize fresh equity from the market. As a
result, most oil companies in Argentina rely almost exclusively on the
incorporation of retained earnings into capital as a source of capital in-
creases. A greater recourse to the creation of specialized companies for the
purpose of carrying out specific projects is being increasingly considered
by some oil firms (para. 2.12) as a means of attracting risk capital from
non-oil related sources. From discussions arising during the preparation of
this project, BANADE and IFC are also studying the possibility of parti-
cipating in such ventures, perhaps through the creation of a special equity
participation funid for risk capital investments in petroleum projects.
BANADE-s equity :investments would also be eligible for financing under the
proposed loan (para. 4.05).
2.17      Although, as mentioned in para. 2.07, several Argentine oil com-
panies still have solid financial structures, many of them are considered to
be at the limit of their borrowing capacity, according to the stringent
standards of the Argentine banking community which also perceives the oil
industry as risky. This is because Argentine banks, with the possible excep-
tion of BANADE, possess little, if any, expertise in petroleum projects, and
are in no position to evaluate the intrinsic merits of a project. Thus, they
base their lending decisions principally on the strength of the borrower's
balance sheet position. An exception to this pattern has been, in the past,
the acceptance by Argentine banks, as security for their loans, of the pledge
of YFF-s production payments to a firm according to old model contracts based
on the minimum production curve (para. 2.10). Such financing, however, was
just short-term cliscounting of future invoices in fields already in production.
Furthermore, Argentine banks make local currency loans almost exclusively on
commercial terms, with a maximum maturity of six months. Though such loans
are frequently rolled over, their nature is hardly adapted to the requirements
of petroleum project financing.
2.18      The only source of long-term financing in local currency for
petroleum projects is BANADE (Chapter III.) Besides these loans from BANADE,
the only other source of medium- and long-term financing for petroleum
projects has been, so far, foreign exchange loans from the Euro-currency
market. Such loans are available both from local banks (with the limitations
discussed in para. 2.17) and directly from foreign banks, many of which
operate branches in Argentina. Access to the latter's credit is generally
still restricted in amount and in availability to the strongest and best
established local oil firms. These loans are only available for the financing
of field development and secondary recovery projects, and not for exploration
projects. Their maturity is generally limited to five years, with no more
than one year grace. They carry variable interest rates of about one per-
centage point or more above LIBOR. Their maturities are hardly suitable to
the needs of petroleum project financing, especially as concerns initial field
development which requires long (up to five years) gestation periods before
generating sizeabLe returns.



- 16 -
2.19      The above considerations explain the modest indebtedness to banks
of Argentine oil firms (para. 2.07) in spite of their relative financial
strength, and their considerable requirements of credit financing. Total
debt to banks and financial institutions of the seven major oil firms surveyed
by the mission amounted, according to their latest financial statements,
to the equivalent of US$330 million of which almost half was at short term,
compared with total assets of US$880 million. The expected materialization
of the investment program discussed in paras. 2.13-2.15 will require a much
greater recourse to bank credit, especially at long term, by Argentine oil
firms.  Assuming that at least 30 percent of the projected investments will be
financed with fresh equity or self-generated cash, bank credit for more than
US$1.0 billion will be required by the domestic private oil firms through
1985. The proposed line of credit is intended to help bridge this financing
gap directly and indirectly.
III. THE INTERMEDIARY--BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
3.01      Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE) was created as an autonomous
government-owned development bank in 1970 from the former Banco Industrial,
which, in turn, had been established in 1944 to provide term financing for
industry. By early 1976, however, lending at highly negative interest rates
had almost completely eroded BANADE's equity base, and its lending operations
came to a virtual standstill. Recognizing the importance of this institu-
tion as virtually the only domestic source of term financing for industry,
the Government recapitalized BANADE, brought in an experienced board of
directors and adopted a new charter. In order to support efficient indus-
trial projects and assist in overall institution building, the Bank made a
US$100 million loan to BANADE in 1977 (Loan 1463-AR), which is almost fully
committed.
3.02      Approximately 55 percent of the funds under Loan 1463-AR have been
utilized to finance reequipment of local industry to increase production
efficiency, enabling firms to compete in a new environment of reduced protec-
tion. Most of the borrowers for this purpose have been medium and small
industries. The remaining funds have been used for capacity expansion of
larger enterprises. In part, as a result of Bank efforts, BANADE's institu-
tional capacity to appraise projects has been enhanced, and a new unit has
been created to perform industrial sector studies to focus BANADE's promo-
tional efforts. Although some institutional improvement is still necessary
(paras. 3.06 and 3.07), BANADE has been strengthened significantly; it is now
the fourth largest bank in Argentina, in terms of both loans and deposits, and
has been able to continue its support of industrial and mining activities in
the country. BANADE's charter underlines its role as a term-lending industrial
development institution within the Government's overall policy framework,
and provides safeguards for the maintenance of operational autonomy, satis-
factory evaluation standards and financial viability. It is an institution of
sufficient size and importance to finance the fast-growing oil and gas sector,
and an appropriate channel for a Bank loan to the sector.



- 17 -
3.03      The fo:llowing is a brief description of BANADE-s management, overall
activities in the oil and gas sector, and other aspects relevant to the
proposed project. Additional information on past operations, including
BANADE's charter and statement of policy, is contained in the appraisal
report of the Industrial Credit Project (Report No. 1521B-AR). The forth-
coming second indlustrial credit project appraisal report will contain more
detailed informat.ion on BANADE's overall operations.
A. Organization and Operations
Board of Directors, Management and Staff
3.04      BANADE"s board consists of a chairman, two vice chairmen, and
nine directors, all appointed by the Government for terms of four years.
The present chairman, vice chairmen and directors had several years of
experience with banking, industry and the Government prior to joining BANADE.
3.05      BANADE is administered through its general manager and six assistant
general managers (see organization chart, Annex 3-1). Lending operations are
conducted through four departments: (i) investment and development credit
(industrial project financing); (ii) mining credit; (iii) ordinary credit
(commercial banking operations and development credit for small and medium
industries); and, (iv) external financing (import/ export financing).
Resource mobilization activities are carried out by the finance department
(local) and the external finance department.  BANADE has 33 branches through-
out the country and some 3,600 full-time employees.
3.06      Although BANADE has several experienced professionals, institution
building has taken somewhat longer than expected for several reasons.
Management, which has devoted more time to day-to-day operations, has not
been able to mount effective staff development programs and implement im-
provements in the control system. BANADE also has less than fully com-
petitive salary scales, a problem faced by other Government agencies as
well. Since salary scales are fixed on a Government-wide basis, and are
outside of management-s control, management has responded by allowing tech-
nical staff in particular to work part-time to enable them to supplement
their salaries with other activities. The existing situation is stable,
and, although nct ideal, involves a long-established practice in BANADE
and other state enterprises and thus is difficult to modify. The overall
institutional issue is being addressed in the context of the Bank's super-
vision of Loan 1463-AR and the proposed second industrial credit project. The
proposed project concentrates on strengthening BANADE's oil and gas lending
unit (paras. 3.21 to 3.23).
3.07      Although monthly financial statements are prepared for management,
BANADE's management information system also requires improvement to permit
efficient monitoring, programming and planning of operations. Appropriate
measures including the possibility of hiring specialized consultants are being
discussed together with the institutional issues mentioned above.



- 18 -
Operations
3.08      BANADE lends to a broad cross section of industries in several
sectors. In 1980, about 67 percent of total portfolio were local currency
loans, and the remainder were foreign currency loans. About two-thirds of
the loans made by BANADE in 1980 were for fixed asset financing. For local
currency loans in particular, about 80 percent of commitments were made to
manufacturing industries, close to ten percent to mining and other extraction
industries and about ten percent to services and other activities. BANADE
also acts as a financial agent for Government-owned enterprises to secure
foreign long-term funds at reasonable terms.
3.09      The total loan portfolio of BANADE amounted to about A$3,700 billion
at year-end 1979 (about US$2.3 billion equivalent) and reached about A$7,100
billion (about US$3.6 billion) by year-end 1980.
B. Oil and Gas Lending
Past Operations
3.10      To date, BANADE has made eight loans for oil and gas development
projects using its own resources. Most of these loans were made in 1977
to finance projects involving contracts awarded by YPF in 1976, with no
loans made during the last two years. BANADE has not lent for exploration
projects to date. Total amount outstanding for oil and gas projects at year-end
1979 was about US$77 million equivalent.
3.11      An analysis of five of the subprojects financed by BANADE showed
ex ante financial rates of return (FRR) in real terms in excess of 30 percent.
In view of the products involved, the lower than world prices stipulated in
contracts as delivery prices to YPF, and the cost of inputs (likely to be
higher than border prices on average), the economic rates of return (ERR)
should exceed the FRRs significantly. The overall implementation experience
of BANADE to date has been satisfactory, with no significant arrears and with
only one project experiencing moderate problems due principally to excessively
low contracted output prices.
Appraisal and Supervision of Oil and Gas Projects
3.12      Although the information contained in BANADE s appraisal reports
in the past is acceptable, its evaluation of technical aspects and risks
relied almost exclusively on YPF's guaranteed minimum production curve
specified in contracts in the past (para. 2.10). Based on this, BANADE was
willing to finance up to 15 percent of the gross value of the minimum produc-
tion. When YPF changed the basis for its production contracts, eliminating
the minimum curve, BANADE felt itself incapable of evaluating oil and gas
projects and decided to suspend lending to the sector.
3.13      Supervision was also minimal and consisted mostly of disbursement
checks to ensure that funds were being utilized for the stated purposes,
with little if any follow-up thereafter.



- 19 -
Future Operations in the Oil and Gas Sector
3.14      BANADE,, with Bank assistance, has prepared and adopted a statement
of policy on oil and gas activities which emphasizes project appraisal as the
principal basis for lending and investing. BANADE would finance mostly
primary and secondary recovery projects of private firms including pipelines
and gas treatment plants, as well as some exploration projects presented
by financially strong firms. The policy statement, which was discussed
and agreed to during negotiations, incorporates the key points on appraisal/
supervision criteria mentioned below (See Annex 3-3).
3.15      BANADE's appraisal of projects would be based on a detailed fea-
sibility study p-resented by sponsoring firms which would enable BANADE to
evaluate the technical, financial and economic viability of subprojects,
including enviro:c;mental aspects. Information requested would include the
geophysical, geological and reservoir aspects, plan of investments, and
projected operating costs, production and revenues.  The experience and
technical capability of the operator and of the sponsoring company would be
considered in t5e evaluation, together with the conditions of contract with
YPF and the operating agreement among the partners involved in the project
joint venture. B1ANADE may finance any or all of the partners involved in such
joint ventures.
3.16      BANADE's oil and gas development loans would be secured by inter
alia an assignment of contract rights and would finance up to 80 percent of
project costs. At least 20 percent of the project cost (or the proportionate
amount if BANADE finances only some of the partners in a joint venture) would
be provided by the sponsors from their own resources. 1/ Loans would remain
general liabilities of sponsoring companies.  Where ad hoc corporations
are set up to undLertake a project, completion agreements would be required
from the parent firms. To ensure that sponsoring companies are adequately
structured financially to undertake the project, they would have limits
on debt/equity ratios (at most 3:1) and have adequate annual term debt
service coverages over the life of the loans. Loans would have a fixed
amortization period, with provisions for accelerated repayment based on
a percentage of relevant production payments.
3.17      For exploration projects, sponsoring companies should provide
at least 30 percent of project costs (proportional amount in the case of
joint ventures) b:>y funds unsecured by the contract. Sponsoring companies
should be capable of servicing their debts in the event the exploration
project is unsuccessful. To ensure this, the companies would be required
over the life of the loans to maintain: (a) at most a debt/equity ratio
of 3:1 after deducting the investments for the exploration project from
both assets and equity; (b) adequate annual term debt-service ratios and,
(c) a minimum current ratio.  Loans would have maximum amortization periods of
up to fifteen years and could be prepaid by the borrower or folded into
development loans by BANADE if the project is successful.
1/   Or sources which would not be secured by assignment of YPF contract
rights.



- 20 -
3.18      BANADE would supervise the projects, which would include frequent
field visits during implementation, and submission to BANADE of annual
reports on investment plans and production projections, and quarterly reports
on investments made, operating expenses, production and revenues. BANADE
would also require borrowers to present audited annual financial statements.
3.19      In order to help offset the cost of appraisal and supervision,
BANADE may request for warrants or loan convertibility options in connection
with its lending operations. Since some of the technically qualified project
sponsors may be undercapitalized, BANADE may also invest (minority participa-
tion) in the equity of oil and gas firms.
3.20.     As previously mentioned (para. 2.17), most commercial banks are not
equipped to appraise oil and gas projects. BANADE would utilize its appraisal
capability as a catalyst to mobilize funds from local and foreign banks for
properly screened sub-projects (para. 3.24). Several private banks already
have indicated their intention to jointly finance subprojects with BANADE.
Organizational Arrangements for Oil and Gas Lending
3.21      BANADE carried out its oil and gas lending operations in the past
with a small staff consisting of a coordinator, an engineer and a financial
analyst. Recognizing the large demand for and complicated nature of petroleum
projects, BANADE has established a separate division in its mining department
to deal with energy projects, particularly oil and gas projects. A division
head, who has several years of experience with BANADE dealing with large state
projects, has already been selected and has started promotional activities.
The division presently has several financial analysts and an economist, but
no technical staff. To strengthen the division, BANADE would hire three
geologists and three petroleum engineers within the next few months. Due to
BANADE's salary level constraints, however, it cannot expect to hire senior
technical staff (para. 3.06). BANADE would therefore contract from a consult-
ing firm the full-time services of an experienced geologist and petroleum
engineer for a minimum period of two years to help appraise projects and to
train BANADE's staff on the technical aspects of oil and gas lending. Ini-
tially, the review of BANADE's appraisals under the proposed loan would be
supplemented with field visits by Bank staff to assist in building up BANADE's
appraisal and supervision capacity (para. 4.07). The objective would be to
develop sustainable general oil and gas project appraisal and supervision
skills within BANADE, such that in the future, it would only require special-
ized consultancy assistance on a case by case rather than on a full time
basis.  Some overcapacity would be built into BANADE's technical staff
to allow for staff turnover.
3.22      To assist BANADE in this regard, US$1.0 million of the proposed
loan would be set aside to finance consulting assistance and training
of BANADE's staff. In order to accelerate the hiring of consultants,



- 21 -
advance contracting would be permitted up to the full amount of this com-
ponent, including retroactive financing of up to US$200,000. The qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the consul-
tants shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The hiring of petroleum engineers
and geologists for the energy division, and the selection of an appropriate
consulting firm, would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.  Agreement was reached during negotiations that BANADE would maintain
adequate staff, including consultants, for oil and gas lending.
Project Pipeline, Size of Proposed Loan and Cofinancing
3.23      Surveys carried out by BANADE and the Bank indicate that substantial
investments are planned by private Argentine companies (para. 2.15), and that
inadequate access to appropriate credit and to fresh capital has become a key
bottleneck to implementation of petroleum development projects by local firms.
Assuming a continuation of present Government policies, a line of credit of
US$200 million could be committed in less than two years. Given the need for
appropriate funds in this sector, BANADE would arrange for joint financing at
the subproject level from other sources and is actively exploring cofinancing
of about US$100 million under standard conditions. Since actual negotiations
may take time, provision would therefore be made to associate cofinancing with
the proposed loan after Board presentation. Such an arrangement would be
similar to the cofinancing operation of US$100 million (now completely dis-
bursed) associated with Loan 1463-AR.
3.24      To the extent necessary to attract joint financing at the subproject
level, BANADE would: (a) share subproject information with other lenders; (b)
include a cross-default clause in its subloan agreements; and, (c) skew its
subloan amortization schedules towards later maturities.
3.25      BANADE would like to resume lending to the oil and gas sector
as soon as possible with Bank financial and technical support. BANADE began
its promotional efforts in November 1980 and is expected to have one or two
subprojects soon. In order to maintain the momentum of BANADE's efforts,
it is proposed to approve retroactive financing in the amount of US$5 million
for subproject expenditures made after April 1, 1981.
Coordination with YPF
3.26      Close coordination would be required between BANADE and YPF at
the policy and operating levels to enable BANADE to program its oil and
gas lending on the basis of YPF's plans to award contracts, and to give
BANADE access to b.idding and technical information necessary in the appraisal
of specific subprojects. Agreement was reached with the Government during
negotiations that YPF will facilitate provision of relevant information
to BANADE.



- 22 -
C. BANADE's Financial Structure, Results and Projections 1/
Financial Structure
3.27      Banade's policy statement limits total debt to ten times capital and
reserves. As of year-end 1980, BANADE's debt/equity ratio was 5.5:1, which,
although much higher than the 2.6:1 ratio of year-end 1979, still allows for
considerable additional leverage (Annex 3-2). BANADE would not require
additional capitalization to draw down the proposed loan. The debt/equity
ratio rose due to continued growth in liabilities (both locally mobilized time
and demand deposits and foreign borrowings) and some equity erosion in real
terms (para. 3.28). Total assets reached A$9,068 billion at year-end 1980
(about US$4.6 billion equivalent), a 29 percent p.a. increase in real terms
(using the WPI, wholesale price index, as deflator) over the year-end 1979
level. The growth of assets, loan portfolio and equity compared with the
inflation rate are shown below:
1976     1977      1978     1979      1980
in A$ billion
Total assets                   216      622    1,901    4,464    9,068
Index                       100       288       880    2,067    4,198
Total loan portfolio           119      381    1,392    3,676    7,136
Index                       100       320    1,170    3,089    5,997
Equity                          84      211       517    1,166    1,398
Index                       100       251       615    1,388    1,664
Wholesale price index          100      249       612    1,525    2,410
3.28      As shown above, from 1976 to 1980, total assets increased forty-two
fold, 2/ the loan portfolio sixty fold from a smaller base, and equity-about
seventeen fold. The wholesale price index increased about twenty-four fold
over the same period. Thus, while assets, including the loan portfolio,
increased substantially in real terms, the equity base of BANADE declined by
about 30 percent over the same period. Although not satisfactory, this result
is still a distinct improvement over the results in 1975 prior to the Bank's
involvement with BANADE, when equity declined to only about US$7.0 million
equivalent after years of lending at highly negative interest rates in real
terms.  Management has implemented several steps to help ensure maintenance of
equity value in real terms in the future (para. 3.29).
1/   This section was prepared in cooperation with the LCPID2 Division.
2/   Almost all of BANADE's assets are financial.



- 23 -
Revenues and Costs
3.29      BANADE now charges a floating interest rate on its term loans in
pesos which is based on the Central Bank-computed weighted average of interest
rates paid on term deposits (tasa testigo); short-term loans are made on a
high nominal fixed rate basis. BANADE used to charge peso interest rates in
term loans linked to the wholesale price index, which proved satisfactory at a
time when most peso lending was made using Central Bank and equity funds.
However, with the growth of time and demand deposits, which now fund some 30
percent of assets (up from eight percent in 1977), BANADE became exposed to
substantial risks arising from divergence between the deposit rates and
relending rates. T'his eventually caused a negative spread leading to the
erosion of BANADE's equity in real terms mentioned above. Since May 1980, all
new term loans in pesos have interest rates based on the tasa testigo.  In
March 1981, interest rates on all outstanding term peso loans were converted
from a WPI base to a tasa testigo base invoking a clause incorporated into
loan agreements allowing BANADE to change the index for peso interest rates.
Loans using foreigna currency funds are passed on in the same currency as
borrowed, with a spread for BANADE.
3.30      The high rate of inflation experienced in Argentina precludes a
meaningful detailecl analysis of past income and expenses. However, rough
estimates indicate administrative expenses of about 3.0 percent of average
total assets, which is lower than the estimated 4.0 percent in 1975 but still
somewhat high, due principally to the number of small loans made, the system
of branches, and the still large number of certain categories of staff relative
to volume of operations. As efficiency further improves due to measures such
as staff training and restructuring of the management control system, this
should decline somewhat over the next few years (para. 3.34).
Sources of Funds
3.31      At year-end 1980, about 39 percent of BANADE's liabilities were
accounted for by deposits, another 42 percent by foreign obligations, with the
remaining amount accounted for by miscellaneous liabilities. A term loan of
US$250 million (eight years term) made by a consortium of foreign banks to
BANADE, acting as financial agent for several state-owned enterprises, is
included as part oE BANADE's foreign obligations.  BANADE's local resource
mobilization capability, using the system of branches, gives it considerable
flexibility in providing peso funds for projects, in addition to funding its
more traditional, short-term commercial banking operations.
Quality of Portfolio
3.32      The board of BANADE reviews the status of past due loans monthly
to determine the reserve to be set aside from income for possible losses.
In common with othLer financial institutions in Argentina, and due to the
difficult situation facing the industrial sector as a whole, BANADE's arrears
situation deteriorated over the past year. Total loans in arrears amounted
to about 6.4 percent of total portfolio at year-end 1980, compared to about
four percent at year-end 1979. Portfolio provisions, at about 10.2 percent



- 24 
of total portfolio at year-end 1980, and reserves which are part of BANADE's
equity. BANADE's term loans are secured by pledges on assets, mortgages and
other guarantees. Most short-term commercial credits representing about 13
percent of BANADE's portfolio are unsecured.
Auditing Arrangements
3.33      Due to legal obstacles in the past to the use of private external
auditors, under Loan 1463-AR the Bank made special arrangements with the
Central Bank of Argentina to fulfill the Bank's external auditing requirement.
Audited reports were received up to 1978. After discussions regarding the
audit report for 1979 and subsequently, for 1980, the Bank was informed that
the Central Bank would be unable to undertake the auditing task in the future
due to pressing matters in the financial sector requiring its attention.
Also, due to changes in regulations, BANADE may now, and in fact is required
to, hire an external auditor. BANADE is now in the process of selecting an
auditor to begin with the 1981 audit. In view of the reluctance of external
auditing firms to undertake ex post audits and the delays such an arrangement
could cause, BANADE has proposed an interim arrangement involving its Sindico,
a representative of the National Executive Authority who oversees compliance
with the provisions of BANADE's charter and Central Bank regulations, and of
operations and accounting procedures. The Sindico would hire independent
accountants and would present the audited statements for 1980 with comparative
figures for 1979 in accordance with the Bank's requirements. The scope and
timing of the audit, the personnel involved and the schedule for presentation
of audited reports were discussed and agreed during negotiations. Agreement
was also reached during negotiations for the establishment of separate
accounts for the proposed loan. Presentatior of audited accounts satisfactory
to the Bank for 1980 with comparative figures for 1979 and the hiring of an
external auditor acceptable to the Bank for the 1981 audit would be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Financial Projections
3.34      Indicative financial projections of BANADE (Annex 3-2) show the
debt/equity ratio remaining below 10:1 over the forecast period up to 1985,
with some growth in real terms of the loan portfolio (7.0 percent p.a.) and
total assets (4.5 percent p.a.). Although the growth rates are moderate,
structural shifts are expected within the portfolio, with more emphasis on
medium- to long-term lending and less on working capital peso denominated
loans. Correspondingly, on the liabilities side, time and demand deposits are
expected to remain practically constant in real terms over the forecast
period. Deposits with BANADE increased sharply over the past few years partly
due to its strong efforts but also due to the turmoil in the financial sector
which led to deposit shifts from private to public banks. As a more secure
financial intermediary with a large share of deposits, BANADE then also had to
provide a larger share of working capital credit to industry. With the
expected improvement of conditions in the financial system, BANADE can then
emphasize medium- and long-term lending based on both foreign borrowing, its
deposit base which is projected to remain constant in real terms, and its
equity. Due to the change in BANADE's peso lending index (para. 3.29) and



- 25 -
satisfactory financial policies in general, BANADE's equity is projected to
increase by about 4.8 percent p.a. in real terms over the forecast period,
taking into account some initial deterioration in 1981 up to March before the
change of the index and continued increases in loss reserves. The projected
loan assets, loan portfolio and equity are shown below in 1980 pesos.
(A$ billion
in 1980 prices)      1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
Total Assets         9,068    10,192    10,758    11,043    11,230    11,347
Loan Portfolio       7,136      8,696      9,231     9,541      9,800      9,991
Total Equity         1,398      1,281     1,470      1,550      1,630      1,769
Administrative expenses have been projected to decline only moderately to
about 2.4 percent of average total assets by 1985, to take into account the
costs of new areas of lending such as for petroleum and energy conservation.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Objectives
4.01      The proposed project is in response to a Government request to
the Bank for financial and institutional assistance in oil and gas sector
development. In pursuit of its objective to improve sector efficiency and
increase output, the Government has given top priority to enhancing parti-
cipation by private firms in petroleum exploration and development. However,
for reasons mentioned previously, given the magnitude of required investments,
local firms have found it increasingly difficult to secure appropriate finan-
cing for required investments and would have problems with participating
actively in sectorc development unless additional funds are made available.
4.02      The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
strengthen the role of the Argentine private sector in an accelerated pro-
gram of oil and gazs sector development by:
(a)  providinlg long-term financing for sound exploration, primary
and secondary recovery projects, including pipelines and gas
treatment plants; and,
(b) providinag technical assistance to develop BANADE-s institutional
capacity to identify, appraise and supervise oil and gas projects.
The project would also act as a catalyst, through BANADE, to mobilize re-
sources from foreign and local banks for properly screened subprojects
and would be a vehicle for sectoral policy discussions with the Government.
4.03      The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
petroleum sector m:ission in August 1979; preparation was assisted by a mission
in July 1980. Appraisal took place in November 1980.



- 26 -
B. The Proposed Loan
Terms and Conditions
4.04      The proposed loan of US$100 million would be made to BANADE with
the guarantee of the Argentine Government. It would be utilized to finance
the foreign exchange component of petroleum projects implemented by the
private sector and would include a technical assistance component of US$1.0
million. The loan would be made at the current Bank interest rate (presently
9.6 percent p.a.) and standard commitment fee on the undisbursed balance
(0.75 percent p.a.). BANADE would relend the proceeds in US dollars at 13.5
percent p.a. which includes both a spread and a cross currency risk for
BANADE. BANADE's equity investments in connection with specific subprojects
would also be eligible for financing under the loan. The proposed loan is
expected to be committed by December 31, 1983 and disbursed by December 31,
1985. The loan would have a term of 15 years including three years of grace
with the amortization schedule in approximate conformity with: (a) the
composite subloan and agreed investment amortization scheduled at the time of
commitment for US$99.0 million; and (b) the standard Bank amortization schedule
for the US$1.0 million technical assistance component. Funds from subloans
which are prepared or investments sold ahead of schedule would be retained by
BANADE and be used for similar projects. The amortization schedule applicable
to each subloan and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for a grace period not exceeding three years in the
case of subloans and five years in the case of investments, and shall not
extend beyond 15 years from the date of loan signing. The above-mentioned
terms and conditions and those mentioned below (paras. 4.05 to 4.11) were
discussed and agreed upon with BANADE during negotiations.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
4.05      Eligible subborrowers or recipients of BANADE investments would be
private Argentine companies 1/ which have been awarded (or are part of a
consortium which has been awarded) an exploration (risk) or primary or. second-
ary recovery contract by YPF. Subloans and investments would finance the
foreign exchange component of oil and gas exploration and primary and secondary
recovery projects, including related investments such as pipelines and gas
treatment plants. Financing from the proposed loan would be limited to US$20
million per subproject, even though average subproject size is expected to be
about US$80-100 million, to encourage BANADE to seek joint financing of the
larger subprojects from other intermediaries and to ensure that Bank loan
funds are distributed over a reasonable number of subprojects.  Agreement
would be obtained from BANADE at negotiations that it will obtain, for each
subproject, the necessary funds to complete the subproject financing plan
prior to presentation of the subproject to the Bank.  The amortization
schedule of the proposed loan would allow BANADE the flexibility to blend
medium term funds from other sources with long-term Bank funds.
1/   At least 51 percent owned, directly and indirectly, by Argentine
nationals, as defined by law. Foreign firms may have a majority position
in the joint ventures implementing subprojects, but only the share of
the Argentine partners would be financed under the loan.



- 27 -
4.06      Subloans would be secured to the satisfaction of BANADE, including
through an assignment of production payments and contract rights. When ad hoc
corporations are. established to implement a project, completion agreements
would be obtained from the parent companies.
Subproject Review
4.07      BANADEs staff has had some experience with oil and gas projects,
and would be supported by full-time technical consultants. Supplementary
training programs would also be implemented under the technical assistance
component of thes loan. Taking these points into account, and the expectation
that most subprojects and subloans will be relatively large, BANADE will be
required to submit the first three subloans for Bank approval irrespective of
amount, after whlLich a free limit of US$6.0 million would apply. These
arrangements would result in the review by the Bank of a representative
sample of subprojects covering approximately three quarters of the proposed
loan amount. M.l subprojects submitted to the Bank, except for exploration
subprojects, shall demonstrate financial and economic viability as shown by
the financial and economic rate of return calculations. Only subprojects
with projected economic rates of return of at least twelve percent (the
estimated opporltunity cost of capital in Argentina) would be considered for
financing under the loan. For subloans of more than US$10.0 million, the
Bank's review of BANADE's appraisals, to the extent necessary, would be
supplemented with field visits by Bank staff.
Technical Assistance Component
4.08      The technical assistance component would include US$650,000 to
finance about 48 man months of full-time consultancy services for the oil
and gas unit, at about US$15,000 per man month, including travel, subsistence
and overhead (para. 3.22). This amount is reasonable considering the high
level of expertise required and the salaries prevailing in the petroleum
industry. An additional US$350,000 would be available to finance the training
program overseas in oil and gas lending of BANADE's professionals, and for
supplementary consultancy services for specific subprojects. The qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the consultants
required under the project shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.09      Exploration and primary and secondary recovery contracts are
awarded by YPF through international competitive bidding with minimum in-
vestment requirements per year normally specified, and in most cases with
prices at which output will be sold to YPF as the bidding variable (para.
2.10). Thus, an efficiency screen exists at the level of acreage award.
Argentine firms meeting YPF-s prequalification requirements have to be
technically experienced, and their procurement procedures, by force of
competition in the bidding process, must give due regard to economy and
efficiency in tlhe execution of projects. Also, companies normally form ad hoc
consortia to bicl on YPF-s contracts, and procurement decisions of the
operating partner in the consortium are subject to scrutiny from the other
partners. Delivery time is particularly crucial in this sector due to the
shortages of driilling rigs and supplies, with backlogs exceeding one year not
uncommon, causing at times the forced idling of costly crews. Taking into



- 28 -
account that the acreage is awarded under ICB, under overall terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.10), procurement of goods and
services under the loan would therefore be undertaken in accordance with
established commercial practices in the petroleum sector. For purchases of
goods and services over US$1.0 million, three quotations would be presented by
subborrowers. Foreign manufacturers, suppliers and service firms are well
represented in Argentina. Where subsidiaries of the parent company will
provide the services required (e.g., drilling), their fees would be subject to
more detailed scrutiny by BANADE.
4.10      Disbursement of funds from the loan for subprojects would be on the
following basis: (a) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of direct
imports; (b) 60 percent of total expenditures of foreign equipment purchased
off-the-shelf; and (c) 45 percent of total expenditures for locally supplied
goods and services. The percentages for (b) and (c) represent average foreign
exchange costs determined from a review of a sample of past BANADE projects.
A significant percentage of locally supplied services (e.g., seismic surveys
and contract drilling) would have higher foreign exchange costs than would be
the case for industrial, or other types of projects. For the technical
assistance component the Bank would disburse 90 percent of total expenditures
for consulting services and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for staff
training abroad. Unless otherwise agreed, any funds remaining uncommited at
the end of the commitment period would be cancelled.
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
4.11      Advance contracting would be permitted up to the full amount of
the technical assistance component (US$1.0 million), including retroactive
financing of US$200,000 (para. 3.21). Retroactive financing would also be
permitted in the amount of US$5 million for subproject expenditures made after
April 1, 1981 (para. 3.25).
C. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
4.12      The proposed project, the first Bank project involving the private
oil and gas firms of Argentina, would contribute to sectoral development
in several ways. By providing long-term funds directly and acting as a
catalyst to attract financing from other sources, foreign and local, the
project would help overcome present financial constraints to effective
hydrocarbon resource development, and help the country move towards petroleum
self-sufficiency. Some five to seven development subprojects would be sup-
ported, with economic rates of return expected to exceed 20 percent, based
on the experience with projects financed by BANADE in the past. BANADE would
ascertain in each case the economic viability of subprojects. Total invest-
ments in these subprojects would be in the order of US$500 million, and total
incremental petroleum production resulting from this investment would be in



- 29 -
the order of 50 million B over the life of the subprojects. 1/  Only one or
two exploration subprojects would probably be financed due to the high risks
both to the subproject sponsor and, to a lesser degree, to the financial
intermediary. This would help encourage some financially strong firms to
engage in exploration activities and could lead to the development of some
promising structlures.
4.13      The project would contribute to institution building by develop-
ing BANADE's capacity to identify, appraise and supervise oil and gas
projects. This would help lift one of the key institutional constraints
preventing the local banks from strongly supporting oil and gas projects.
BANADE would also help develop access by borrowers to international capital
markets by arrang;ing for foreign banks to jointly finance subprojects.
4.14      At the sectoral level, the proposed project would support the
Government's eff:rts to improve sector efficiency by strengthening the
role of private sector firms in oil and gas exploration and development,
promoting cooperation between the public and private sectors, and strengthen-
ing the ongoing dlialogue of the Bank with the Government on sector policies,
including petroleum pricing.
Risks
4.15      Taking into account the technical assistance component and the
comprehensive sulbproject review process involved, the project presents no
special risk witli respect to the soundness and efficiency of the petroleum
development subprojects financed. The exploration subprojects would present a
higher degree of risk than development subprojects as to success in finding
petroleum in commercial quantities, but would involve only financially strong
firms capable of repaying the subloan irrespective of subproject success.
4.16      On the sectoral side, should the Government depart from its present
policy of encouraging private sector firms to participate in oil and gas
sector 'development, or not be flexible enough in adjusting the terms for
YPF's bidding pro,gram to continue to attract the interest of the private
sector, not enoug?h subprojects may be forthcoming for financing. However,
these subjects and other policy matters, such as petroleum pricing, and their
implications for achieving desired sector goals, are discussed regularly
between the Argentine Government and the Bank and will be followed closely.
On the whole, the project presents a moderate level of risk.
1/   This could also vary depending on the amount devoted to pipelines, gas
treatment pl]ants and other related investments.



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached
on the following points:
(a)  with the Argentine Government regarding:
i)   the level of consumer prices of petroleum products
(para. 1.24); and,
ii)   the conditions of YPF's bidding program and provision
to BANADE by YPF of relevant information (paras.
2.10 and 3.26).
(b)  with BANADE regarding:
i)   the amount, and terms and conditions of the proposed
loan (paras. 3.25, 4.04, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10 and 4.11);
ii)   the terms and conditions of subloans (paras. 4.05
and 4.06);
iii)   arrangements for subproject review (para. 4.07);
iv)   adoption of a suitable policy statement for oil and
gas lending (paras. 3.14 and 3.20);
v)   hiring of technical staff and selection of consultants
for oil and gas lending (para. 3.22); and,
vi)   satisfactory auditing arrangements for BANADE and the setting
up of separate accounts for the proposed loan (para. 3.33).
5.02      The presentation of audit reports satisfactory to the Bank for 1980
with comparative figures for 1979, the hiring of auditors acceptable to the
Bank for the 1981 audit, and the hiring of technical staff and suitable
consultants satisfactory to the Bank would be conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed loan.
B. Recommendation
5.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$100 million to BANADE with the guarantee of the Republic of
Argentina on the terms and conditions listed in Chapter IV.



ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production (1975-1979)
1975                   1976                    1977                    1978                    1979
Crud-o Oil                              Volume      Z          Volume       %          Volume       %          Volume       %          Volume       %
(ti-ion Bi)
ypp                                    104.6      72           107.5      74          118.2       75          111.9       68           114.9      67
Prlvate Sector (Contracts)              38.9      27            36.9      25           38.0       24           51.7       31           55.9       32
Otbers  1/                               1.0       1             1.2       1             1.3       1             1.5       1             1.7       1
Total                                  144.5    100            145.6    100           157.5      100          165.1    100            172.5      100
N4tura1 Gas
(billion CF)
YPF                                    284.5      78           320.5      82          357.1       87           345.4      85           390.7      85
Private Sector (Contracts)              76.1      21            66.9      17           52.5       13           58.8       14            64.6      14
Others 1/                                2.2       1             2.1       1             2.2       1             2.0       1             2.4       1
Total                                  362.8    100            389.5    100           411.8      100           406.2    100            457.7     100
t' Ptivate companies which were awarded areas prior to promulgation of the old hydrocarbon law.
e :>
0 1
H 



ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Retail Prices of Principal Hydrocarbon Products
Heavy
Kerosene    Diesel Oil   Gas Oil-'Residual Fuel Oil   Natural Gas    Wholesale
Regular  High Octane               Retail  Bulk             Retail        Bulk  (Large Users) Non-Agricultural
WA$/liter)                                 (A$/kg)      A$/MM Cal         Price Index
(1960 = 100)
December 1976       47         53.0        29.0       24      15.0   29.0    13.0          9.0   1,359.758            62,548
December 1971     110         135          65         46      22.5   65       26          15.2   2,991.984           166,274
December 1978     275         330         206        135      95    206      81           65        n.a.             397,160
December 1979     545         655         361        238    166    361      142          114    11,613 1/            928,904
October 1980      900       1,090        650         424    304    650      251          210    19,462             1,461,465
March 1981      1,270       1,550         930        506    397    930       299         277        N/A            1,668,800 3/
1/ November 1979
2/ Considered as diesel in other countries
3/ Estimate
I-a>
OQ 
03
F-



ANNEX 2-1
ARGENTINA                        Page I of 1
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
5i=ple of Argentine Private ComWanli_s Active
in the Hydrocarbon Sector
Company     Total Assets      Debt/Equity                  Principal Hydrocarbon exploration
(million US$)       Ratio                     and development projects
BRIDAS          328                1.5                     Exploration: Cuenca Austral,
(Sept.79)                                     Acambuco, Malargue Sur.
Development: Medanito, El Cordon,
Piedra Clavada, Lindero Atravesado,
Al Sur de la Dorsal.
PEREZ-         189                 1.8                     Exploration: Tierra del Fuego
COMPANC     (Aug, 79)
-OMPANC  (Aug.79)                          Development: Manantiales,
Catriel Oeste, Medanito
Piedra Clavada, El Cordon,
Koluel Kaike,Pampa del Castillo.
TECHINT         129                1.0                     Exploration: Agua San Roque
(June 79)                                     Development: Cinturon Costero,
Ramos, Cafiadon Piedras.
ASTRA            63                1.1                     Exploration: Tierra del Fuego
(Dec. 79)                                     Development: Lindero Atravesado,
Cafiadon Seco, Meseta Espinosa,
Rio Tunuyan, Manantiales.
PLUSPETROL       58                3.0                     Exploration: Nirihuau
(March 80)                                    Development: Centenario,
Anticlinal Campamento, Ramos
QUITRALCO        23                1.7                     Exploration: Malargue Sur
(June 79)                                     Development: Cafiadon Seco,
Al Norte de la Dorsal
INALRUCO        51                 4.3  1/                 Exploration: Picun Leufu,
(June 80)                                     Acambuco
Development: Cafiadon Seco,
Meseta Espinosa, Piedras Coloradas,
Ramos, Llancanelo
1/ Unaudited provisional data, adjusted to reflect in full Inalruco's sha re in
assets and liabilities of consortia, which Inalruco reports on a net equity
basis in published ftnancial statements.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
OIL AMD GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Partial Listing of Hydrocarbon Exploration and Field Development Contracts
(awarded, or being offered for bids)
Area                    Award                        Estimated        of which,
winning firms                minimum          already invested
investment       (if data is avail.)
A. Exploration contracts
Cuenca Austral          Total, Bridas,                34.7                n.a.
Deminex
Magallanes              Shell, Petrolar                66.0                 "
Picun Leufu             Inalruco, Desaci,              12.6
Apco, Cospesa,
Technicagua
Rio Gallegos            Shell, Petrolar               116.8
Acambuco                Bridas, Socma,                44.2
Inalruco
Tierra del              Exxon, Astra,                  67.1
Fuego Este I            Perez Companc, Cadipsa
Tierra del Fuego        Exxon, Astra, Perez            67.1
Este II                 Companc, Cadipsa
Nirihuau                Pluspetrol                      9.0
Confluencia             Alianza Petrolera,            12.4
Evangelista
Aguada San              Techint, Cadipsa              13.2"
Roque Oeste
San Jorge Norte        n.a.                           13.5
San Jorge Centro       n.a.                           15.4
Llancanelo             'Union of California,          21.3
Alianza Petrolera
Inalruco



ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 3
-2-
Rio Negro Norte         n.a.                           12.0
Rio Juramento           n.a.                           13.5
Ledesma                 n.a.                           13.0
Las Brefias             n.a.                           10.0
Magallanes Este         n.a.                           41.0                  "
B. Production and Development contracts
Lindero Atravesado      Bridas, Astra                  98                 n.a.
Catriel Oeste           Perez Companc,                 44                  40
Petrolera San Jorge,
Burgwardt
Medanito                Perez Companc,                178                 164
Bridas
Canadon Seco            Astra, Sasetru,                75                 n.Oa.
Inalruco, Evangelista
Centenario              Pluspetrol, Selva             143                  56
Piedra Clavada          Bridas, Perez                 144                 142
Companc
Al Sur de la
Dorsal                  Bridas, Ryder Scott           n.a.                n.a.
Meseta Espinosa         Astra, Evangelista,            65                 n.a.
Inalruco
Rio Tunuyan             Astra                           9                 n.a.
El Cordon               Bridas, Perez Companc         153                 108
Koluel Kaike            Perez Companc,                 85                  30
SADE, Interamerican
Pampa del Castillo      Perez Companc,                 87                  35
SADE, Interamerican
Anticlinal              Pluspetrol, Cospesa,           35                 n.a.
Campamento              Tecnicagua, Petrolar
/.. .



ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 3
-3-
Manantiales Behr        Amoco, Astra,                 144                    2
Perez Companc
Piedras                 Inalruco, Evangelista          21                  n.a.
Coloradas               Alianza Petrolera, Blocker
Cinturon Costero        Desaci, Techint,               47
Butes Gas Oil Co.
Los Perales             Evangelista, Promin            41
Ramos                   Pluspetrol, Techint,           91
Selva, Socma
Canadon Amarillo             n.a.                      35
Cacheuta                     n.a.                      21
Cerro Wenceslao              n.a.                      87
San Roque                    n.a.                      85



ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
*                                           BANADE -ORGANIZATION CHART
Boardaof Difeoon
.  Chairman               _
.,                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Directors
_ | ~~~~~~~~Diviw
SystD ns an
Lega Division       Organization
Division
*Asistiant
General Mane
Personnel       Economic Studis
Division            Division
rwesmentOirdinary                                    F1External
1aIndDvelopmengt  |redit             m      Mining Credit         ministrative    FP.    am         FF an|    E
and Development          Credit            Deatetprmn                                                     Fin nca 
dit Departnent         Department            eapn[tment
Energl DivBnion
World Bank - 22544



ARGENTINA - OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Table 1; Past and Projected Balance Sheets of BANADE
(in $a billions)
1976   1977      1978      1979      1980       198i       1982       -19-83  -    1984        1985
Assets
Cash, Bank Deposits and
Securities (in Local Cy.) 1/           25.3   51.9    288.1    509.1    477.1         854.8   1?858.4   3,438.0    5,157.5    6,705.5
Cash and Bank Deposits
(in Fgn. Cy.) 2/                        7.6. 100.4      83.4    112.0    592.0        183.9      358.6      60g.7       914.9    1,189.6
Loans in Local Cy. 3/                    96.3  313.5    973.7  2,578.0  4,799,1   8,878.3  17,756.6  32,790.6   53,947.6   78,223.9
Loans in Fgn. Cy.                        23.1   68.0    417.9  1,098.4  2,336,8   7,209.0  16,397.7  32,517.7   56,732.2   85,397.5
Total Loan Portfolio                  119.4  381.4  1,391.6  3,676.4  7,135.9  16,087.3  34,154.3  65,308.3  110,679.8  163,621.4
Fixed Assets                              1.6    3.6        9.2      28.0     51.9      155.9       319.5      591.1       974.6    1,414.3
Other Accounts in Local Cy. 4/           42.8   58.6       79.1      85.0    362.6      652.7   1,272.7   2,418.1    4,109.3    6,167.6
Other Accounts in Fgn. Cy. 5/            19.7   26.4       49.4    .53.9    448.7       920.2   1,840.4   3,220.6    4,992.4    6,736.5
Total Assets                          216.5  622.3  1,900.8  4,464.4  9,068.3  18,854.8  39,803.9  75,585.8  126,828.5  185,834.9
Liabilities and Equity
Central Bank                             59.5   31.3       24.2      18.8    176.9      344.9        29.9       52.3        81.5       108.6
Time and Demand Deposit 6/                 -    50.8    444.8  1,390.4  3,017.3   6,201.2  12,978.1  23,573.6   37,472.8   51,637.2
Other Local Cy. Obligations 7/           25.8   46.3       97.7    120.4    558.1       686.4   1,407.1   2,603.1    4,296.2    6,227.0
Fgn. Cy. Obligations                     43.6  263.0    758.3  1,502.0  3,148.4   8,245.2  18,457.1  36,380.0   62,804.7   93,158.1
Fgn. Cy. Deposits 8/                       -       -         -         -      38.7       81.2      166.7       300.1       479.3       672.3
Provisions                                3.8   19.9       58.6    266.6    730.6       925.6   1,325,3   2,064.8    3,285.9    5,053.0
Total Liabilities                     132.7  411.3  1,383.6  3,298.2  7,67G.0  16,484.4  34,364.2  64,973.9  108,420.4  156,856.2
Capital and Reserves 91                  59.5  117.8    239.0    533.3  1,183.1   1,498.4   2,369.7   5,439.2   10,612.0   18,406.4
Retained Earnings 10/                    24.3   93.2    278.2    632.9    215,3         872.0   3,07Q.0   5,172.7    7,796.2   10,572.3
Total Equity                           83.8  211.Q    517.2  1,166.2  1, 398.3   2,370,4   5,439..7  10,612,0   18,408.2   28,978.7
Total Liabilities and Equity          216.5  622.3  1,900.8  4,464.4  9,068.3  18,854-.8  39,803.9-  75,585.8 .126,828.6  185,834.a
Debt/Equity Ratio                       1.6:1  1.9:1    2.7:1    2.8:1    5.5:1         8.0:1       6.3.1      6.1:1       5.9:1       5.4:1
1/  Includes BANADE's equity portfolio and funds invested in treasury bills (letras de tesoreria,.
2/ During December 1980 funds from City Corp loan (us$25Q millionX were deposited Qverseas irk BANADE14 account.
3/ BANADE's loan portfolio in pesos assumed to grow in nominal terms at the same pace as WPI, consolidating large real growth.
rates achieved during the past three years, but with changes in structure of portfolio towards medium- and long-term loans.
4/  Includes anticipated payment of income taxes due in 1981, which did not appear in previoua periods since BANADE was exempt from                  Id
paying income tax previous to 1980. 
5/  Includes BANADE's investments in Celulosa Argentina S.A. (US$91 million debentures) and in Banco Arahe Latino Americano ouS$6G
million shares) during 1980.  Additionally this account includes foreign exchange operations handled by BANADE for its clients
which increased significantly during the latter part of December 198Q.
6/ Assumes a conservative projected increase for time and demand deposits after substantial real growth primarily during 1980 due
in part to a noticeable shift of deposits from private bank deposits to public banks due to conditions in the financial sector.
7/  Includes accrued interest of time and demand deposits and "Convenios" administered by BANADE,
8/ Central Bank CCircular R.F.1165 August 6, 1980) establishes foreign currency deposit accounts.
9/  Includes government capital contributions made during the period of 1976/77 of $a74.27 billion (around US$220 million equivalent)
10/ Projected balance sheets assumes that all the net income after taxes of each year are transferred to the Capital and - serves
accounts the following year.



ARGENTINA - OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Table 2; Past and Projected Income Statements of BANADE
(in $a billions)
1976     1977      1978     19J9.    lq80         1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
Net interest, Commissions and
Monetary Corrections 1/           13.8    105.7    389.6    867.6    783.8    1,850.0    4,952.2    8,490.9    13,004.0   17,998.4
Other Income (Loss)2/               16.9     16.7    (37.6)    57.0       66.9        35.0       115.0       250.0        495.0       660.0
Total Income                      30.6    122.4    351.9    924.6    850.7    1,885.0    5,067.2    8,740.9    13,499.8   18,658.4
Personnel Expenses                   2.6      9.8      27.8      70.4    145.7       276.8       567.5    1,049.9       1,732.3    2,511.9
Other Expenses                       1.5      4.3       9.7      24.1     67.4       128.1       262.5       485.6        801.3    1,161.9
Ptovisions & Depreciation it         2.3     15.2      37.8    210.4    387.0        390.3       399.7       739.5      1,220.1    1,769.2
Total Expenses                     6.4     29.3      75.3    304.9    600.1        795.2    1,229.7    2,275.0        3,753.8    5,443.0
Net Income Before Taxes             24.3      93.1    276.6    619.7    250.6    1,089.8    3,837.5    6,465.9          9,745.3   13,215.4
Taxes.A!                            -       -         -         -       68.9       218.0       767.5    1,293.2       1,949.1    2,643.1
Net Income After Taxes              24.3      93.1    276.6    619.7    181.7        871.8    3,070.0    5,172.7        7,796.2   10,572.3
1/  Includes net interest on loans in local and foreign currency, commissions on foreign loans and monetary corrections on peso-
denominated loans.
I/  Principally earnings from securities.
3   Primarily represented by provisions made for bad debts.                                                                                      (D
4/  During 1980 BANADE started paying income and other taxes from which it was previously exempt.                                                 0 w



ARGENTINA - OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Table 3: BANADE's Past and Projected Sources and Applications of Funds From Year-End to 1985
(in $a hillions)
1977       1978        1979        1980         1981         1982         1983          1984         1985
Sources of Funds
Central Banik                     -           _           _         158.1        168.0                      22.4         29.2         27.1
Increase in Time and
Demand DePosits                50.8       394.0       945.6    1,626.9      3,183.9      6,776.9    10,595.5    13,899.2    14,164.4
Increase in Other Local
Cy. Obligations                20.5        51.4        22.7      437.7        128.3         720.7     1,196.0       1,693.1      1,930.8
Increase in Fgn. Cy.
Obligations                   219.4       495.3       743.7    1,646.4      5,096.8    10,211.9    17,922.9    26,424.7    30,353.4
Increase in Fgn. Cy.
Deposits                        -           -                      38.7         42.5         85.5        133.4        179.2        193.0
Net Internal Cash
Generation                    143.5       344.8      857.0       696.0      1,167.1      3,469.0      5,911.7       9,018.3    12,337.7
Decrease in Cash,
Deposits and Securities
(In Local CY.)                 -           -           -          32.0         -            -            -             -            -
Decrease in Cash and
Deposits CIn Fgn. Cy.2          -          17.0         -          -          408.1         -             -            -
Total_Sources                 434.2    1,302.5    2,569.0    4,635.8    10,194.7    21,264.0    35,781.9    51,243.7    59,006.4
Application of Funds
Increase in Loan Portfolio
Local Cy.                     217.2       660.2    1,604.3    2,221.1       4,079.2      8,878.3    15,034,0    21,157.0    24,276.3
Fgn. Cy.                       44-9      349.9       680.5    1,238.4       4,872.2      9,188.7    16,120.0    24,214.5    28,665.3
Increase in Other Accounts
Local Cy.                      15.8        20.5         5.9      277.6        290.1        620.0      1,145.4       1,693.1      2,058.3
Fgn. Cy.                        6.7       23.0         4.5       394.8        471.5        920,2      1,380.2      1,771.4       1,744.1
Increase in Fixed Assets          2.0         5.6       18.8        23.9        104.0        163,5        271.6         383.5        439.7
Central Bank                     28.2         7.1         5.4        _           -           315.0          - _p
Increase in Cash,                                                                                                                                A
Deposits and Securities                                                                                                                      w
(In Local Cy-)                26.6       236.2       221.0         -         377.7       1,003.6      1,579.6      1,719.0      1,548.0      o
Increase in Cash and                                                                                                                             M
Deposits (In Fgn. Cy.-         92.8        -          28.6       480.0         -           174.7        251.1         305.2        274,7      '
Total APplications           434.2    1,302.5    2,569.0    4,635.8    10,194.7    21,264.0    35,781.9    51,243.7    591,Q6.4



ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 10
ARGENTINA
BANADE: Policy Statement for the Financing of the
Exploration, Production and Transportation of Hydrocarbons 1/
I. General Ob ectives
*                   Banco Nacional de Desarrollo, whose aim is to promote the country's
development, and particularly its industry and mining, undertakes to finance
projects that will contribute to the harmonious growth of the energy infra-
structure, which is the cornerstone of industrial and mining development.
Therefore, in pursuance of the policy set by the National Govern-
ment for the development of the hydrocarbons sector (petroleum and gas),
the objective of which is to increase the sector's production and efficiency,
the Bank will establish a line of credit for the financing of projects in
that sector to be carried out by local private enterprises.
II. Framework of the Bank's Action
This financial support will be extended to projects for explora-
tion, primary production and secondary and/or tertiary recovery of hydro-
carbons, including permanent facilities for the processing and transportation
of those products. The projects so financed must meet the basic economic,
financial, technical and legal conditions established by the Bank in accor-
dance with the standards and practices followed by the petroleum industry.
The Bank will play an active role in the identification, appraisal
and supervision of hydrocarbon projects which meet the above-mentioned
conditions.
III. Sources of Funds to be Lent
The Bank will act as intermediary to mobilize short-,medium- and
long-term resources, in the form and amount most appropriate in each case,
in the light oE the financing needs of private enterprises in the hydrocarbon
sector.
To that end, it will itself raise funds in the domestic capital
market and will administer lines of credit and external loans for interna-
tional financial agencies and correspondent banks.
To the extent possible, it will also promote cofinancing operations
with other credit institutions in Argentina and abroad.
As an exceptional and limited measure, it will consider equity par-
ticipation by providing risk capital to corporations, on condition that in
such cases the beneficiary agrees to be listed in the stock exchange within
tCe period established in the pertinent agreement.
1/ Translation from Spanish.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 10
IV. Selection of Projects to be Financed
As explained below, the projects to be financed by the Bank must
be shown to be feasible from the economic, financial, technical and legal
standpoints.
This must be clearly demonstrated by the feasibility studies which
the applicant must submit for each individual project.
4
The feasibility studies must contain basic data and analyses re-
quired by the Bank for each project, as regards: geophysical and geological
aspects; reservoir engineering; investment plans; operating costs; statement
of sources and application of funds; the risk contract (with YPF) from which
the project originates; and, operating agreement binding the participating
firms, etc.
Only projects whose economic rate of return calculated according
to methods standard for the petroleum industry exceed the opportunity cost
of capital in Argentina will be considered for financing.
To carry out the identification, appraisal and monitoring of these
projects, the Bank has established a Department of Energy.
Further, in order to ensure from the outset the proper study of the
technical and economic aspects of the projects to be financed and to facili-
tate the training of staff, the services of outside consultants with exper-
tise in geology and petroleum engineering will be engaged on an interim basis.
To provide appropriate training for the specialized staff of the
new department, personnel development programs will be established in
Argentina and abroad.
V. Parameters, Requirements and General Conditions on which Project Financing
will be Based
Appendix 1 sets forth the regulations governing credit operations
with private firms for the financing of hydrocarbon exploration, production and
transportation projects.



ANNEX 3-3
APPENDIX 1                         Page 3 of 10
DRAFT CREDIT REGULATIONS
Line of Credit for Firms Entering into Contracts with YPF or Gas
del Estado for Hydrocarbon Exploration, Production and Transportation
I. Objectives
To provide financial support to firms involved in Argentina in
hydrocarbon exploration, production and recovery, including the construction
and operation of permanent transportation systems.
II. Beneficiaries
Local private firms which, in the sole judgement of the Bank, meet
the appropriate technical, economic and financial requirements, and (i) indi-
vidually or as members of consortia, are awarded YPF or Gas del Estado contracts
for the execution of works mentioned in Chapter I; and, (ii) hold concessions
for oil and gas fields.
III. Purpose
To finance investments in local and/or foreign goods and services
required for the start-up and proper execution of contracts entered into with
YPF or Gas del Estado, in accordance with Law No- 17,319 (Law on Hydrocarbons)
and 21,778 (Regulations governing so-called risk contracts), for the purpose
of:
1. Stimulating the development of hydrocarbon exploration;
2. Promoting the production and recovery of hydrocarbon fields; and,
3. Supporting the construction of permanent systems for the
transportation of hydrocarbons.
IV. Requirements and Conditions
In addition to possessing the necessary technical, economic and
financial capabilities meeting the general conditions for engaging in opera-
tions with the Bank, and complying with Laws 17,319 and 21,778, the benefi-
ciaries must sat:Lsfy the requirements and conditions set forth below for each
type of operation:
1. Financing of Exploration Contracts
The applicant must submit the contract signed with YPF in accordance
with the legal provisions mentioned in Section III above and the technical,
legal, economic and financial documentation on the project required by the Bank,
including information on the experience and technical expertise of the operator
and other firms involved in the contract.
The beneficiaries must prove that they have the capability to meet
their financial obligations from their own resources, in the event that the
exploration does not indicate the potential for economic production. The firm's
total investment in such projects may not exceed 20 percent of the net worth
of the firm, as estimated by the Bank.



AiNNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 10
1.1 Amount:
Up to 70 percent of the financiable investment committed to the
project, based on technical estimates by the Bank.
Neither the contract nor the potential earning capacity thereunder
may be used as collateral to raise the balance of the capital not covered by
the loan, which must be provided by the beneficiary.
1.2 Limitation on indebtedness, liquidity and debt-service ratios:
During the life of the loan the beneficiary must maintain:
- A total debt-equity ratio not greater than 3:1, after the
assets committed to the project are deducted from equity.
- Liquidity ratio: (current assets/current liabilities: not
less than 1.2.
- Debt-service ratio: not less than 1.5.
1.3 Term
Up to 15 years, including up to five years grace. That period may be
reduced, at the discretion of the Bank, in the event of a discovery with com-
mercial potential whose production would permit early repayment of the loan.
1.4 Guarantee
The loans will be secured by promissory notes on the sole signature
of the beneficiaries who will in addition assign their rights under the exploration
contract and their potential future income.
2. Financing of Production/Recovery Contracts
The applicant must submit the contract signed with YPF in accordance
with the legal provisions mentioned in Section III above and the technical,
legal, economic and financial documentation on the project required by the
Bank, including information on the experience and technical expertise of the
operator and other firms involved in the contract.
The projects to be financed must, in the sole judgement of the Bank,
be technically, legally, economically and financially viable, with sufficient
proven reserves, an appropriate investment plan, an experienced operating
firm and an acceptable operating agreement.
The feasibility study submitted must show the economic and financial
rate of return of the project.



ANNEX 3-3.
Page 5of 10
2.1 Amount
Up to 80 percent of the financeable investment committed to the
project, based on the technical estimates by the Bank.
The contract may not be used as collateral to raise the balance of
the capital not covered by the loan, which must be provided by the beneficiary.
*       2.2  Limitation on indebtedness, liquidity and debt-service ratios
During the life of the loan the beneficiary must maintain:
- Total debt/equity ratio: not greater than 3:1.
- Liquidity ratio (current assets/current liabilitites): not
less than 1.2.
- Debt-service ratio: not less than 1.3.
2.3 Term
Up to 15years, including up to three years'grace. The repayment
period for debts arising under these loans shall be adjusted in the light of
the nature of the contract and the earning capacity of each project, and to
that end the debt service charges may be increased up to a prescribed per-
centage of operating income.
2.4 Guarantee
The beneficiaries shall constitute a lien in favor of the Bank on
their rights in future earnings arising from the contract to be financed,
which lien shall also cover all instruments originating therefrom. Further,
they shall establLsh in favor of the Bank a special irrevocable power of
collection and shall reserve the right to receive any sums whatsoever from
YPF, whether from payment of the credit instruments, return of deposits given
in guarantee, interest or the like, or in general any sums to which they may
be entitled under the contract to be financed by the Bank.
The lien on future earnings, the prohibition on direct receipt of
monies and the irrevocable power of collection shall in all cases also extend
to credits that the beneficiaries may have with YPF for the value of goods
incorporated in the works covered by the contract.
3. Financing of Permanent Systems for Transportation of Hydrocarbons to be
Operated Under Contracts Signed with Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
or Gas del Estado
The applicant must submit the contract signed with the above-mentioned
state enterprises, along with the information and documents showing the
technical, legal, economic and financial feasibility of the projects, including



ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 10
the calculation of the economic and financial rate of return. (The economic
rate of return, at the minimum should exceed the opportunity cost of capital
in Argentina.)
3.1 Amount
Up to 80 percent of the financiable investment committed to the
project, based on technicalestimates by the Bank.
The contract may not be used as collateral in raising the balance
of the capital not covered by the loan, which must be provided by the beneficiary.
3.2 Limitation on indebtedness, liquidity and debt-service ratios:
During the life of the loan the beneficiary must maintain:
- Total debt-equity ratio: not greater than 3:1.
- Liquidity ratio (current assets/current liabilities): not
less than 1.2.
- Debt service ratio: not less than 1.2.
3.3 Term
Up to 15 years, including up to three years grace. The repayment
period for debts arising under these loans shall be compatible with the nature
cf the contract and the earning capacity of each project, and debt service
may be increased accordingly up to a prescribed percentage of operating income.
3.4 Guarantee
The beneficiaries shall constitute a lien in favor of the Bank on
their rights in future earnings arising from the contract to be financed,
which lien shall also cover all instruments originating therefrom. Further,
a special irrevocable power of collection shall be established in favor of the
Bank and no sums whatsoever may be received from YPF or Gas del Estado,
whether from payment of the credit instruments, return of deposits given in
guarantee, interest or the like, or in general any sums to which they may be
entitled under the contract to be financed by the Bank.
The lien on future earnings, the prohibition on direct receipt of
monies and the irrevocable power of collection shall in all cases also extend
to credits that the beneficiaries may have with the above-mentioned state
enterprises for the value of goods incorporated in the works covered by the
contract.
V. Requirements and Conditions for all Operations
Interest
Interest rates will be set in accordance with the Bank's general
policy on current interest rates.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 7 of 10
Commitment Fee
This will be determined in accordance with the Bank's general
policy in the matter.
Assignment of Contract
(a) The contracts entered into by private firms with the state cor-
porations and which require financing from the Bank within the framework of
these regulatiorns must - without exception - contain a clause that empowers
them to assign in full or in part all rights and obligations arising under
the contract to third parties, which in the judgment of the contracting state
enterprise meet appropriate technical and economic conditions.
(b) The credit agreements which the Bank enters
into in application of this regulation must - without exception - include a
clause by which the beneficiary assigns in full or in part all rights and
obligations arising under the contract financed, to the Bank and/or the third
party designatedI by the latter, after approval by the state enterprise,
when, in the sole judgment of the Bank, the company shall have failed to per-
form any of the obligations assumed under the loan agreement or the contract
with the state enterprise.
The beneficiary must likewise assign all rights and obligations
incumbent upon it under the operating contracts.
(c) 'he contracting state enterprise and the firms involved in the
contract must be notified of and must approve all clauses which imply assign-
ment of the conitracts.
Granting and Repayment of Loans
The loans shall be made in pesos or foreign exchange, regardless of
whether payment for goods to be purchased or services to be contracted is
to be made in some other currency.
Loans shall be repaid in semestral installments.
Debt service, as well as interest and the commitment fee shall be
payable in the same currency as the loan.
The loan principal will be determined in accordance with the Bank's
general policy in the matter. 1/
Subsidiary Guatantee
For the financing of projects undertaken by an ad hoc firm created
for that purpose by one or more controlling firms, the latter will in all cases
1/ E.g., regulations on indexation of loans denominated in pesos.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 8 of 10
be required to commit themselves vis-a-vis the Bank to fulfill the contractual
obligations assumed toward YPF or Gas del Estado with regard to the risk
contract. A similar commitment must normally be made with regard to the ob-
ligations arising under the loan agreement.
Where it deems appropriate, the Bank may require real or personal
subsidiary guarantees to its full satisfaction. Further, the firms must agree
to post such guarantees at any time, solely on the request of the Bank.
The privilege arising from the constitution of real rights shall
be valid up to the amount of the obligation in foreign exchange.  In such
cases the instruments shall be recorded in the appropriate registries, and
the amount need not be estimated in Argentina currency, except for the sole
purpose of taxation.
Other Debts
Any other debts that the applicants may have with the Bank shall not
affect the granting of loans under these regulations, nor shall the existence
of such debts prevent the consideration of applications of other kinds, pro-
vided that the indebtedness and liquidity limitations hereby established are
not exceeded.
Verification of Use of Proceeds of the Loan
To permit supervision by the Bank of the implementation and operation
of the projects financed, the beneficiaries  shall submit quarterly reports
on the progress and operating results of the projects, in addition to quar-
terly and annual balance sheets.  The annual balance sheets must be certified
by external auditors, and such certification must also cover the accounts
related to the project.
The borrowers must allow technical and accounting inspections at
any time that the Bank may deem appropriate and must provide all information,
documentation, vouchers and the like that the designated Bank staff may re-
quest in the fulfillment of their duties.
Penalties
Violation of these regulations or those established in the pertinent
operating contracts, without justification, may cause the amount of the debts
to become due and payable immediately, without appeal and without prejudice
to any legal proceedings.
Cost Estimates of Goods and Services to be Financed
In order to ensure economy and efficiency in the execution of
projects, loan applicants must submit at least three quotations for the pur-
chase of goods and services of significant cost (more than US$1 million or the
equivalent in other currencies).  When the services are provided by a sub-
sidiary company, additional information must be provided, as required by the
Bank.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 9 of 10
Procedure
Since these operations are associated with implementation of the
Government's oil plans, the procedure will be consistent with the following
recommendations, which aim at expediting action:
(a) Registration of signatures
It is recommended that at the time of the submission of their appli-
cation firms update the list of their legal representatives, so that when the
loan is approved, their signatures are already duly registered for any of the
proposed operations.
(b) Determination of the technical, legal, economic and financial
feasibility of the project
Project appraisal will be undertaken by the relevant units of the
Department of Energy and shall cover all aspects deemed necessary in the judgment
of the Bank.
(c) Other requirements
Before the loan is approved, the Department of Guarantees and
Notarization will contact the firms to facilitate compliance with other re-
quirements, such as insurance, registration with agencies, social security
payments, etc.
VI. Internal Provisions
All alpplications falling under these regulations shall be decided
upon by the Board of Directors.
As regards obligations of the beneficiaries, penalties for nonper-
formance, insurance, etc., the general provisions currently in force at the
Bank for similar operations shall apply.
Before considering the applications covered by this procedure, the
Department of Energy will consult the Financial Planning Department on the
allocation of funds.
The beneficiaries may seek financing for the same project from other
sources of credit. To that end, at their request and as appropriate, the
Department of Energy will adopt or promote, as the case may be, the appro-
priate decisions limiting the lien established on rights in future earnings
arising under the contracts financed by the Bank, the prohibition on direct
receipt of monies from YPF or Gas del Estado and the special irrevocable power



ANNEX 3-3
Page 10 of 10
of collection to the instruments whose net amount satisfactorily covers the
sums borrowed and the regular repayment thereof, without prejudice to the
posting of other guarantees or bonds as advisable under the particular
circumstances. The administrative entities involved are authorized to adopt
by mutual consent any additional regulations necessary to implement this system
from the accounting and operational standpoints.
Funds Application Clause...
The Finance Division will take the necessary measures to ensure                 )
the proper handling of payments related to operations, so that the relevant
accounting and statistical data are available at all times.



ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Y,ear        Estimated Disbursements        Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending          During the Quarter           at the End of the Quarter
FY 82
September 30, 1981                  -                                -
December 31, 1981                  5.0                              5.0
March 31, 1982                     4.0                              9.0
June 30, 1982                      5.0                            14.0
FY83
September 30, 1982                 6.0                            20.0
December 31, 1982                  6.0                            26.0
March 31, 1983                     6.0                             32.0
June 30, 1983                      6.0                            38.0
FY84
September 30, 1983                7.0                             45.0
December 31, 1983 1/               8.0                            53.0
March 31, 1984                     8.0                            61.0
June 30, 1984                      8.0                            69.0
FY85
September 30, 1984                 9.0                            78.0
December 31, :[984                 8.0                             86.0
March 31, 1985                     6.0                             92.0
June 30, 1985                      4.0                             96.0
FY86
September 30, 1985                 2.0                            98.0
December 31, :1985 2/              2.0                           100.0
1/ Estimated end date for submission of subloans.
2/ Closing date.



ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. On BANADE
1. Annual Reports, 1977 to 1979
2.  Projected Financial Statements
3. Charter and Policy Statement
B. On YPF
1. Annual Reports, 1977 to 1979
2. General Contract Conditions for Private Companies
3. Bidding Documents and Contracts for Specific Areas
4. Bidding Program 1980-81
C. On Private Companies
1. Annual Reports of Selected Companies, 1978 and 1979
2. Consortia Operating Agreements for Specific Areas
D.  On the Oil and Gas Sector
1. Draft Pricing Strategy, Energy Secretariat, August 1980
2. Official Memoranda on Hydrocarbon Product Prices, Energy
Secretariat, various dates
3. Data on Hydrocarbon Production, Demand and Imports



F4e::ed Lf D'0 A~~P >WA
.  r              0                %   -          S           V Son S:.d-                               - ,   ; 
-32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 32$2=,tsW         R_t t / Ui         -    
UR; 01J_AY   
i;:   ;:    ;QC tae '   ilt   X                                =    ,',<             J           -       =     0
= == fD ! ( a X X , .t, - x~~~~~~~~
A,~~~~       ~~~~                                                    MO d   IE)kdP   .;            ~i   trael Pl.10
(   N   ve  t t F         >      ,    -       <      t   <    i z     X i V  ~~ARGENT'INA
|   Vi 2  - s  8st9lnSl       ,o >  '        :t OIL INDUSTRY LOcATIONS
X t   = 4        ,    ?> ->9< t                          --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~P-oposed Notur.1 G as Noetines
-40'~~ 0                                                                                   A/ _O t+   il Refineries 6'
'  ' =    = }   S     S >t(g   4          jtA     X           =-_   C)~~~~~~~~~~~~Ol; Pipewnes
s t.- i ,4 j F | | ~~~~n - 51 >*x Xf, ] t _ _ _ ~~~Crude 0-t Pipelines
i t~~~~~~~-    X                                                      L-i0 Fmts of Geoogical Bcsin
]  ]    o  f   $, i7  v^                   t      X        - A    0 1    l    (D       ChonaForoowc4 
O     =  =1                                                                            De Saenoinladoudre
_. -, 9.  9\t  x   /  .--                 >1           ---   Rven~~~~~~~DelCol,od
a;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2    V .ldx -1s
t   -t.:     ot, 4-1                                                            MaXn Au X<j   gral  u  - -
=\ b   l   F @   4      a;   -' vcs           s        s           =  <~~~~.emato.o Boundaries
g   tAGalfegos F    Xx              X      tX       fi     l             9 ==f A Ff R i W~~~R,,,e
r~~~~~~~~~G                        h . o                                   f                                  rr  r h h t   l s - * p   _  - .  .,g_
t*   =.P   w   " h i   . _" h



