Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VILE   COPY                           Report No. P-3092-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
June 17, 1981
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1, 1981)
Currency Unit          Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1            =      $a 3,190
US$1 million    =      $a 3,190 million
$a 1 million    =      US$313
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
B         -  Barrel (= 0.159 Cubic Meter)
BANADE    -  Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
BD        -  Barrels per Day
CF        -  Cubic Feet (ICF = 0.0228 Cubic Meter)
CFD       -  Cubic Feet per Day
GdE       -  Gas del Estado
(State Gas Company)
LIBOR     -  London Inter Bank Offer Rate
TOE       -  Tons of Oil Equivalent
YCF       -  Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales
(State Coal Company)
YPF       -  Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
(State Oil Company)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ARGENTINA             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE).
Guarantor:             The Argentine Republic.
Amount:                US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at 9.6% per
annum. The amortization schedule would conform to
the aggregate of the following two amortization
schedules: (a) for the US$99.0 million portion for
financing oil and gas subprojects, the aggregate
amortization schedule of the subloans fixed at the time
when funds have been fully committed; and (b) for
the US$1.0 million for technical assistance, standard
Bank amortization schedule.
Relending Terms:       Subloans would have maturities of up to 15 years
and up to four years of grace with interest at not
less than 13.5% p.a. in US$ with BANADE bearing
the cross currency risk.
Project
Description:         The project would support the Government's policy of
increasing private sector participation in oil and gas
development to improve sector efficiency. It would
provide long-term financing for exploration and develop-
ment projects, including pipelines and gas treatment
plants. The project would include technical assistance
to BANADE to build up its appraisal and supervision
capability of petroleum projects.
Estimated Costs and
Financing Plan:      The estimated total costs of the subprojects would be
US$500 million. The estimated financing plan would be:
equity contributions (US$125 million), IBRD (US$99
million), with the remainder from commercial sources and
BANADE.
Estimated
Disbursements:       Bank FY             82     83      84     85      86
---------US$ Million----------
Annual              14     24      31     27       4
Cumulative          14     38      69     96    100
Rate of Return:        Economic rates of return of subprojects are expected
to exceed 20%.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 3321-AR, dated May 26, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR AN OIL AND GAS CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANADE) with the guarantee of Argentine
Republic for the equivalent of US$100.0 million to help finance an Oil and Gas
Credit Project.  The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.  The amortization schedule would conform
to the aggregate of the following two amortization schedules:  (a) for the
US$99.0 million portion for financing oil and gas subprojects, the aggregate
amortization schedule of the subloans and investments fixed at the time when
funds have been fully committed; and (b) for the US$1.0 million for technical
assistance, standard Bank amortization schedule.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum (No. 2988-AR) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in August 1980. An economic mission visited
Argentina in November 1980; its findings have been incorporated in this
report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. A special report on
the impact of the Government's stabilization and reform policies on the
private sector is under preparation.
Background
3.        Argentina is a semi-industrialized country with a per capita income
in 1979 of US$2,280, a sizeable middle class and a fairly even distribution
of income. Postwar GDP growth has averaged 3.5% in an economy which has
been subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Sharp swings from expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies to restrictive stabilization progranis have
occurred five times since 1950. During the early 1970s, when Argentina's
external situation was favorable, the Government pursued an ambitious public
investment program. Large increases in public expenditures, nominal wages and
credit resulted in strong growth of domestic output, while maintenance of
fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports. In mid-1974, poor
weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef imports halted
export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided with an intensi-
fication of domestic social and political conflict. Acceleration of the
wage-price spiral propelled inflation to over 300% in 1975 and an annual rate
of about 800% in early 1976. A rapidly increasing foreign debt and a drastic
fall in foreign exchange reserves brought the country close to defaulting on
its external obligations.
Stabilization Efforts 1976-1978
4.        The new administration, which took office in March 1976, had, as
its initial objectives, strengthening the balance of payments, restructuring
the external debt and preventing hyper-inflation. The balance of payments
improved as soon as export taxes were reduced and capital flows were freed.



-2-
Monetary and fiscal policies, supported by wage controls, succeeded in bringing
down the rate of inflation from 780% during the year ending in April 1976 to
150% a year later. No further progress was made, however, in reducing inflation
during the remainder of 1977 and 1978. At the same time output fluctuated
greatly. After recovering rapidly from the 1975-1976 recession, growth came
to a halt in late 1977 when credit restrictions and record high interest rates
resulted in a drop in investment.
5.        External sector policies introduced in 1976 immediately produced
favorable export results, while imports were held down by two recessions.
As a consequence, resource surpluses of US$1.9 billion and US$2.8 billion were
registered in 1977 and 1978, respectively. Surpluses on current account were
accompanied by substantial capital inflows. At the beginning, the public
sector was the primary borrower, but starting in 1977 high domestic interest
rates induced the private sector to borrow abroad on an increasing scale.
Although the authorities introduced some controls in 1978, long-term capital
continued to flow into Argentina, and by the end of that year gross foreign
exchange reserves stood at US$5.8 billion, equivalent to 14 months of imports.
Net reserves amounted to US$5.0 billion. This reserve growth permitted a new
approach to inflation control in the framework of an open economy.
The 1979/1980 Program
6.        In late December 1978 the Government announced a stabilization
program with predetermined schedules for adjustment of (i) exchange rates,
(ii) prices of fuels and public sector services, (iii) wages, and (iv) the
monetary base of internal origin; combined with a five-year import tariff
reduction schedule and the formal reopening of the capital market to inter-
national transactions. Most of the adjustments were to follow a declining
trend, designed to dampen inflationary expectations and to limit price
increases of domestic producers. Foreign competition was to reduce the rate
of price increases of domestic tradeable goods to the level determined by
the rate of price increases abroad, and the rate of depreciation of the peso.
It was recognized, however, that possible tariff redundancy and lags in
the adjustment of imports could delay this "convergence" of domestic and
foreign inflation rates.
7.        The new 1979-84 tariff liberalization schedule provided for major
reductions in tariffs on goods produced in Argentina. Shortly after its
announcement, the Government instituted a supplementary program of temporary
tariff reductions for goods whose domestic price increases substantially
exceeded increases in international prices and the rate of devaluation. In
addition, tariffs for all capital goods were eliminated temporarily in order
to facilitate the re-equipment and modernization of Argentine industry.
8.        One notable feature of the stabilization strategy was the secondary
role attributed to monetary policy. The pre-fixing of the peso/dollar rate,
along with the elimination of capital controls, allowed the monetary authori-
ties to influence only the monetary resources originating from domestic sources.
By setting quarterly targets for this variable, the monetary authorities
sought to limit internal public sector borrowing and ensure an adequate supply
of credit to borrowers who had no access to foreign credit sources. Fiscal



-3-
policy was also viewed to be of secondary importance insofar as short-term
stabilization objectives were concerned. To mitigate inflationary expectations,
however, and to reach the long-run goal of decreased state intervention, the
authorities were able to decrease the central government's deficit from 2.1%
of GDP in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979. The overall public sector deficit was reduced
from its 1978 level of 5.0% of GDP to 3.5% in 1979.
Results of the Program
9.        Most of the policies outlined above were implemented during the
course of 1979. The exchange rate was moved according to plan, the tariff
reform was applied, public sector prices and tariffs were adjusted as envisaged,
and monetary resources of internal origin expanded only slightly more than
projected. However, total money supply expanded rapidly, because the elimina-
tion of capital controls and the maintenance of the schedule for exchange rate
devaluation, despite high internal inflation, led to heavy capital inflows
amounting to over US$1.5 billion in the first nine months. With a tight labor
market prevailing throughout 1979, nominal wages increased more rapidly than
scheduled, and the Government eliminated the legal limitations on wage increases
in September.
10.       After some adjustment lag, inflation did decelerate.  The general
wholesale price index, which rose at an average rate of 8.3% per month from
January to August 1979, increased by an average of only 3.5% per month from
September 1979 to December 1980, the lowest monthly rates since early 1974.
The deceleration in inflation led to a real depreciation of the exchange
rate, higher real wages and positive real interest- rates during the last three
months of 1979.  Initially, domestic price increases were dampened by falling
prices of primary products, but the industrial sector's exposure to interna-
tional competition became the primary factor in late 1979 and 1980. As
expected, the branches most exposed to foreign competition were those which
showed price deceleration most clearly.
11.       With prices of traded goods decelerating, it was expected that the
wage transmission mechanism would cause the prices of non-tradeables to
decelerate as well. However, this did not happen and internal terms of trade
have turned against tradeable goods. In order to survive, exporting and
import-competing firms have been under considerable competitive pressure to
raise productivity and lower costs. While the measures adopted augur well for
increased growth and productivity in the longer term, in the short term, many
of the firms affected face serious profit squeeze and cash-flow problems.
12.       The traditional agricultural sector has responded by intensifying
production with emphasis on cereal crops and oilseed cultivation; as a conse-
quence yields and exports have increased. Producers outside the Pampa (fruits,
wool and cotton), however, are finding it more difficult to compete success-
fully under present circumstances. In industry, success or failure seems
related to the previous degree of protection and the quality of financial
management. Firms have been cutting costs by providing fewer products, and
many have sold subsidiaries to generate badly needed cash for purchasing new
machinery and equiDment to modernize production. Some firms have been unable
to cut costs in line with decreasing revenues, in large measure because of
escalating financial costs and an apparent inability to control wages.



- 4 -
13.       Following the elimination of marginal firms, consolidation of
smaller entities and concentration on production in which Argentina has a
comparative advantage, the financial situation of the private sector should
eventually improve. Meanwhile, the weak financial situation of the industrial
sector has affected the portfolios of banks, and several have been forced to
declare bankruptcy. Increased support of the Central Bank and the major
official banks has permitted debt-rescheduling arrangements to be negotiated
for the more viable banks and firms.
14.       During the second semester of 1980 several new measures were adopted
affecting incentives for imports and exports. In addition to acceleration in
the rate of devaluation, a change in the tax structure lowered payroll taxes
and increased the rate of the value added tax. Industrial firms are now
reimbursed the value added taxes when exporting, whereas before they did not
receive reimbursement for labor taxes. That tax change was equivalent to a
de facto devaluation for exports equivalent to between 5 and 15%, depending on
the relative labor costs of each enterprise. As regards industrial imports,
the substitution of domestic payroll taxes by value added taxes, which are
paid by importers as well as by domestic producers, amounted to a devaluation
equivalent to the increase in the value added tax.
15.       Nevertheless, with imports booming and exports slowing down, the
current account surplus of previous years turned into a deficit of about
US$3.5 billion in 1980. Growing expectations that the peso would be devalued
triggered heavy capital outflows. A 10-percent devaluation in early February
1981 was insufficient to calm foreign exchange markets. Capital outflows
accelerated and rates of interest for short-term p-eso borrowing reached 80% in
real terms, on an annualized basis during the first quarter of 1981.
Recent Measures of the New Administration
16.       A new administration took office on April 1, 1981.  It moved swiftly
to stabilize foreign exchange and domestic financial markets. The Argentine
peso was devalued by 30% on April 2 and by 30% on June 1, 1981.  Subse-
quently, Government intends to adjust the exchange rate according to the
difference between international and domestic inflation. A temporary export
tax of 12% on agricultural exports was imposed, a number of special export
incentives eliminated, export reimbursements for manufactured products were
limited to a maximum of 25% and the maximum customs tariffs reduced to 43%.
As a consequence, the reserve position of the Central Bank improved (estimated
at US$7 billion end April 1981), and rates of interest declined. The Central
Bank opened a special rediscount line to help consolidate the debt of structur-
ally sound private firms in financial difficulties because of the earlier
crises in the Argentine financial markets; it will also compensate private
firms that have contracted external loans in 1981 with maturities of 18 months
or longer against losses that would have resulted from the most recent devalua-
tion of 30%. The policy to improve access of the private sector to credit is
complemented by renewed efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit. Taxes on a
number of luxury items have been increased, custom tariffs were raised again
by 5% and the authorization for current expenditures limited. Wage policies
adopted for the public sector imply a reduction of salaries in real terms; the
investment budget is being analyzed to ascertain possibilities for further cuts.



17.       These measures were initially effective in restoring tranquility
in the private sector and are expected to strengthen export and investment
incentives without reversing the trend toward trade liberalization. The
Government is giving priority to consolidating the financial position of the
industrial sector, which has been seriously eroded, as a consequence of an
overvalued exchange rate and high real interest rates, while maintaining the
momentum to increase efficiency and to concentrate in areas of comparative
advantage. The Government is aware that it will take time and considerable
effort to overcome the difficulties the private sector is facing. Temporarily
inflationary pressures have been rekindled. Following the devaluation,
wholesale prices increased by 11.7% and consumer prices by 7.9% in April
compared to first quarter averages of 14.0% and 15.8% respectively. The
Government though is confident that it will be able to bring down again the
rates of inflation through tight monetary and fiscal policies. The treasury
deficit for 1981 is projected at 2.3% of GDP compared to 2.7% of GDP in 1980.
Medium- and Long-Term Development Prospects
18.       With trade liberalization measures beginning to take effect,
industrial and overall economic growth are expected to be relatively slow
in 1981 and 1982. In addition, business failures of weak or overexpanded
firms and unemployment could increase--albeit from extremely low levels.
Availability of long-term credit for reequipment and modernization will be a
crucial requirement for supporting the restructuring of industry. Since the
private sector is also expected to take on a number of tasks previously
undertaken by the public sector, considerable flexibility and efficiency will
be required of the Argentine financial system. While agricultural production
decreased in 1980 because of unfavorable weather conditions, the output is
expected to reach record levels in 1981. Exports of agricultural products and
investment incentives for agriculture should rise given the expected decelera-
tion in domestic industrial price increases and favorable prices of Argentine
products in international markets.
19.       Export growth in current prices during 1976-79 averaged over 30%
per year; it will probably not be possible to sustain this rate. Export
prospects have weakened in the short term, but they appear to be excellent
over the longer term with expected increases in both agricultural yields and
international prices. Total export earnings are projected to increase by an
average of 13% annually during 1982-1987 (6% in real terms). Most of that
increase would be generated by agriculture and agro-industry, with the manufac-
turing sector's share declining to about 12% of total exports by 1985. The
ongoing import liberalization process, as well as the need for modernization
of infrastructure and industry implies that imports in current prices could
increase at about 14% per annum through 1985 (7% in real terms).
20.       With the current account balance turning negative in 1979 and
projected to remain in deficit through 1985, gross inflows of medium- and
long-term capital, including direct foreign investment, are projected to
increase from US$4.6 billion to US$9.4 billion over the same period. The
bulk of these capital flows should be available from world capital markets,
bilateral arrangements, export credits, and direct private investments.



- 6 -
Official multilateral sources, however, may play an important role by provid-
ing financial support combined with technical and organizational assistance
and by stimulating capital flows from other sources. Argentina's medium-
and long-term external public debt amounted to US$10.5 billion at the end of
1980 (US$8.1 billion 1979) and private external debt, US$6.5 billion (US$5.4
billion 1979). The external debt service ratio was 26% in 1979, and is
estimated to have been 30% in 1980. The Bank's share of the external public
debt was 5% and its share in debt service was 3%. Given the relatively modest
anticipated external borrowing of the public sector, the public debt service
ratio is expected to remain below 20%, with the Bank's share not expected to
rise above 1979 levels. Private indebtedness will increase more rapidly, and
the overall net debt service ratio is projected to rise to 30% in the mid-1980s.
In view of these prospects; and assuming continued prudent economic policies,
Argentina is considered creditworthy for loans on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
21.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. After
a hiatus of five years, lending was resumed in September 1976. Since that
date, the Bank has made loans for ten projects amounting to US$886.0 million.
A US$60 million loan for an agricultural credit project was cancelled in 1979.
22.       To assist Argentina through the initial stabilization effort, Bank
lending has focused on major infrastucture projects and the provision of
credit and training to productive sectors. A grain storage project was
designed to enable Argentina to export agricultural products in a more orderly
manner; a vocational training project would help improve vocational and skill
training; an industrial credit project helped support modernization and
expansion of export oriented industries, and the projects for power, highways
and railways provided part of the infrastructure necessary to facilitate
agricultural and industrial expansion. Recently, the Bank began lending to
Argentina's hydrocarbon sector through a series of loans. The oil and gas
engineering loan was the first step in helping Argentina improve its knowledge
of hydrocarbon reserves through expanded auditing and seismic surveys; the
coal exploration loan will improve the basis for a rational exploitation of
Argentina's coal resources.
23.       Disbursements of Bank loans have been slower than expected.  Per-
sistent high rates of inflation, the need for fiscal austerity and inertia
of the private sector did not provide a conducive environment for progress
of Bank financed projects. During the last twelve months, however, the pace
of disbursements has picked up considerably. The marked slowdown in the rate
of price increases and stricter budget procedures augur well for further
progress. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.



-7-
24.       Future Bank lending is expected to become more diversified now
that the Government has broadened its policies beyond stabilization to address
structural and institutional constraints. Future projects would support
Government efforts to modernize the economy through: (i) upgrading public
sector enterprises and rationalizing sector policies; (ii) restructuring the
industrial sector to increase efficiency and improve export performance; and
(iii) helping the Government in its efforts to transfer responsibilities
to provincial authorities and promote private sector participation. Within
the framework for proposed assistance, the oil and gas sector offers ample
possibilities for continued Bank participation. Argentina's sizeable hydro-
power potential, shared with riparian neighbors, represents another attractive
field for Bank assistance. In the transport sector, the Bank is helping with
the preparation of a highway sector project and plans to continue supporting
other modes of transport.
25.       To help modernize the industrial sector, the Government has reduced
import duties to encourage adoption of measures to increase efficiency.
Discussions between Bank and Government to strengthen financial and human
resources for industrial development are expected to result in the formulation
of projects to support industrial training as well as industrial expansion.
In addition, the present administration has taken long strides toward opening
up areas for private sector or joint ventures which traditionally have been
the exclusive domain of the public sector. New mining legislation has cleared
the way for the development of Argentina's substantial mineral reserves by the
private sector. Possible Bank participation could help rationalize sector
policies, attract foreign investors and promote domestic private sector
participation.
26.       The Government has embarked on a major revision of the revenue
sharing system and the distribution of Government responsibilities/expenditures
to reduce bureaucracy, synchronize the supply of services more closely with
demand and provide services more effectively at lower cost. In support of
these policies, a proposed project in the water supply and sewerage sector
would help develop provincial institutions, consolidate sector finances and
effectively expand service coverage. Bank participation in energy conservation,
pollution control, regional water development and flood control are additional
possibilities that are under study.
IFC Operations
27.       As of April 30, 1981, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in Argentina
totalling US$99.4 million and two equity investments of US$2.5 million, of
which US$50.2 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A summary of IFC's
investments is shown in Annex II.
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Energy Resources
28.       Argentina has a substantial and diversified energy base.  The
exploitable hydroelectric power potential over 50 years is estimated at
2.5 billion tons of oil equivalent (Toe) although much of this potential



- 8 -
is located far from load centers and require relatively high costs to
develop. Proven reserves of crude oil at end-1979 totalled 330 million tons
(2.4 billion barrels (B)); natural gas reserves amounted to 21.2 trillion
cubic feet (520 million Toe), equivalent to 15 years and 50 years of current
output, respectively. There are also deposits of low quality thermal coal,
and potential for vegetable fuels (firewood, bagasse), geothermal, wind and
solar energy.
29.       During 1970-75, primary energy output grew less than domestic
demand because oil production declined. As a result, Argentina had to in-
crease petroleum imports. Since 1976, however, the trend has been reversed;
primary energy output has risen 4.5% per annum, while hydroelectric generating
capacity doubled. In 1978, energy demand totalled 42.3 million Toe, comparable
to countries with a similar level of development.
30.       While energy resources are diversified, energy consumption depends
largely on hydrocarbons. Petroleum and natural gas, accounting for only
14% of reserves, meet 86% of domestic energy demand. The hydropower poten-
tial, on the other hand, represents some 50% of energy resources but contrib-
utes only about 6% to domestic consumption. To balance reserves and consump-
tion, the Government is agressively expanding hydroelectric power generation.
At the same time, the Government intends to attain petroleum self-sufficiency
by 1985. Additional efforts in coal exploration and a gradual expansion of
nuclear power generation complement the petroleum and hydroelectric programs.
The Oil and Gas Sector
31.       Exploration.  Hydrocarbon-bearing areas cover about 1.2 million sq
km onshore and 0.6 million sq km offshore. Cumulative crude discoveries from
the early 1900's amount to 5.55 billion B, of which 3.1 billion B have already
been produced. Since 1976, after the Government began to encourage private
firms to participate in petroleum development to complement YPF's efforts,
exploration has surged and the earlier decline in reserves was reversed.
Since 1980, both YPF and the private companies have stepped up their explora-
tion efforts. Good prospects exist for additional discoveries especially in
the extreme Southern and Northern basins where private companies have acquired
acreage (Map IBRD 15312).
32.       Production.  Argentina's oil and gas sector ranks third in output
and fourth in refining capacity in Latin America. After several years of
decline, crude output increased 5-6% per annum since 1976, approaching 173
million B in 1979, the highest ever. Natural gas output increased 3.8% per
year during 1976-79, reaching 1.2 billion cubic feet per day (CFD) in 1979.
Today Argentina has attained a relatively high degree of hydrocarbon self-
sufficiency; in 1979, net imports accounted for just 12.0% of domestic petro-
leum demand, down from 15% in 1975, while net imports accounted for 20% of
natural gas demand. However, because of substantial price increases, the
import bill for hydrocarbons reached US$1,050 million, equivalent to 18% of
merchandise imports, up from about US$400 million in 1978. Imports of natural
gas from Bolivia are based on a 20-year contract extending to 1992; the volume
was increased from 160 million CFD to 230 million CFD in mid-1980, while price
increased from US$0.23 per thousand cu ft (CF) in 1972 to US$3.50/MCF in
end-1980.



-9-
33.       Refining and Transport.  Total capacity of the country's 12 refineries
amounts to some 0.7 million barrels per day (BD). Capacities have been ample
to meet domestic demand for most products, except medium and light distillates.
Because of the small size of most units (only four are larger than 0.1 million
BD) and low capacity utilization of about 76% for the industry as a whole,
refining costs are high. Until recently, the Government allocated domestic
crude primarily to YPF's refineries; now, however, domestic crude is allocated
according to individual refineries' share of the market for petroleum products.
34.       About 45% of crude and about one-third of products are moved by
pipeline, and the rest is transported by coastal tankers, rail and road.
Trunk pipelines for natural gas, extending along the length of the country,
are sufficient to meet summer demand, but fall short of potential winter peak
demand by about 20%, thus restricting gas use. An expansion program, to be
completed in 1982, will ease supply bottlenecks and allow better utilization
of gas resources. Storage capacity for crude oil and petroleum products is
about 35-40 days' supply which is adequate in light of Argentina's relatively
high degree of self-sufficiency. For natural gas, very little storage is
available.
35.       Domestic Demand.  In 1979, domestic demand for petroleum fuels
including field and refinery consumption amounted to about 193 million B. In
1978, transport accounted for 54%; power generation, 20%; industry, 15%; and the
commercial and residential sectors combined, 11% of consumption. Estimates of
consumption in 1979 indicate a similar pattern. Increase in sales of final
products during 1971-79 averaged nearly 3.9% per annum. Gasoline consumption
fell in 1974-75 when its relative price increased substantially, but resumed
afterwards its historic growth of 5.5-6% per annum. Consumption of industrial
diesel and fuel oil declined, reflecting increased use of natural gas in
industry and of hydropower in electricity generation. Little has been achieved
thus far in energy conservation, although in industry alone, estimates place
potential savings at 40% of consumption. First attempts to develop an energy
conservation program are now underway with Bank assistance under the Refinery
Conversion Project.
36.       Natural gas has become increasingly important for meeting Argentina's
energy requirements. Industry accounts for nearly one-half of natural gas
use, followed by power generation (20%) and residential, commercial and
Government sectors (about 30% combined). Consumption of liquefied petroleum
gas replacing kerosene has been growing fairly rapidly. However, some 30%
of output, net of reinjection, is flared principally because of the unfavorable
hydrocarbon price structure, and inadequate transport, storage and reinjection
facilities.
37.       Projected Future Investments.  The Government's plan is to discover
and to develop at least 2.3 billion barrels in additional crude reserves which
would maintain the reserves/production ratio at 15 years throughout the
1980's. To achieve this target, investment in the sector over the period
1980-89 would have to total about US$16 billion for the public sector and
up to US$10 billion for the private sector (in 1979 prices); exploration
and field development would require nearly 80% of total investment.



- 10 -
38.       The Public Sector.  The state-owned Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
(YPF), established in 1922, is the main petroleum company. It operates in
virtually every branch of the petroleum and natural gas sector except marketing
of natural and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). In 1979, YPF accounted for
about 50% of exploration, over two-thirds of crude output, 85% of natural gas
output and 73% of petroleum refining. It operates six of the 12 refineries
and all of the petroleum pipelines. YPF is also charged with negotiating and
monitoring exploration and production contracts with private companies. Gas
del Estado (GdE), a state enterprise established in 1957, is responsible for
importing, processing and marketing of natural gas.
39.       Private Companies.  There are about 45 locally-owned firms operating
in hydrocarbon exploration and production; of these about 30 companies are
exploring or producing oil and gas on a contract basis with YPF, while others
provide specialized services. Among foreign firms, Exxon and Shell are active
in exploration, refining and marketing; Cities Service and Amoco, in production;
and Total, Occidental and Union of Texas, in exploration. Several of the
private domestic oil companies started as pure service companies to YPF, then
expanded into secondary recovery, production and, finally, exploration on a
risk basis. Other companies are subsidiaries of formerly non-oil groups, such
as industrial or engineering service companies. Only three of the domestic
companies have assets over US$100 million equivalent. Several of the firms
have solid financial structures capable of supporting additional debt with no
immediate requirement for additional capitalization.
40.       To attain petroleum self-sufficiency, the Government has given top
priority to further enhancing participation of the private sector in explora-
tion and production. Private capital and the technical expertise of inter-
national and domestic petroleum companies represent an important complement
to YPF's activities in the sector. As the Government's representative,
YPF plays an important role in administering the necessary contractual arrange-
ments with participating companies. Since Argentine law provides that oil and
gas belong to the state and not to the owner of the land, private firms have to
enter into contracts with YPF.
41.       Exploration and development contracts are regulated by the 1967
Hydrocarbons Law (No. 17,319) and the 1978 Risk Contracts Law (No. 21,778).
The initial exploration period is five years for onshore and seven years for
offshore areas. The development/production period is 25 years from the date
of a commercial discovery and cannot exceed 30 years for exploration and
production combined. In the case of offshore natural gas discoveries, the
operator is permitted to postpone exploitation for up to 10 years to allow
for development of markets and construction of necessary infrastructure. The
entire production has to be sold to YPF at a price normally set at the time of
bidding for exploration areas. Prices incorporated in recent awards have been
slightly above half the current international crude prices, adjustable according
to a formula related to output and domestic inflation, but in most cases, subject
to a ceiling of 60% of international prices. So far, this has not been a
constraint to bids.  The Government has informed the Bank that YPF's bidding
policy for both risk and production contracts, including the price of oil



- 11 -
delivered to YPF, would be adjusted from time to time so as to provide suffi-
cient incentives to prospective bidders. Furthermore, the Government would
ensure that YPF will continue to award contracts with due regard to economy
and efficiency in the execution of the projects.
42.       The award of contracts for production follows a similar pattern,
with bidding based, among others, on the sales price to YPF, production
volume, and/or size of investment. In all cases, investment is financed by
the contractor, with installations to be handed over to YPF at the end of
the exploitation period without further compensation. Contracting companies
are subject to standard corporate income taxation, with provisions to take
account of the specific requirements of the petroleum industry.
43.       The Government's policy of attracting private investment to hydro-
carbon development has been quite successful. There is keen interest among
foreign and domestic companies to participate in hydrocarbon exploration
because of their favorable assessment of Argentina's hydrocarbon potential.
In response to the improved investment climate, private companies have concluded
with YPF during 1976-79 12 exploration contracts covering nearly 85,000 sq.
km and 18 production contracts for 5,100 sq. km, entailing minimum investment
commitments of about US$1.06 billion. As a result, oil production by private
firms increased from 6.0 million cubic meters in 1977 (24% of total domestic
production) to 9.6 million cubic meters in 1979 (35% of total domestic produc-
tion). The most significant participations of multinational oil companies
in YPF's contracts have been concentrated in the largest and riskiest explora-
tion projects with only minor participation by local firms. Smaller foreign
firms have preferred to participate with domestic firms in smaller scale on-
shore exploration and field development projects. Consortia made up exclu-
sively of Argentine firms have been awarded the bulk of the less risky onshore
field development and secondary recovery contracts. The companies have been
operating efficiently and their average lifting costs are, on average, lower
than that of YPF.
44.       During 1980, YPF offered for bidding seven exploration and six
development and secondary recovery contracts requiring minimum investment
commitments of about US$460 million. Actual investments which these contracts
will require are likely to exceed this amount by a substantial margin.
Exploration projects, if successful, will require large sums for field devel-
opment, while production and secondary recovery projects are likely to justify
additional investments significantly above the minima specified in the con-
tracts. It is estimated that the private sector would have to invest a
minimum of US$5.0 billion over the next five years just barely to maintain its
current share of Argentina's oil production, and significantly more if the
present plans of the private sector and YPF's bidding program are taken into
account. The bulk of these investments are expected to come from multinational
il companies. However, given the legal requirement that foreign investors
associate themselves with Argentine firms, the added security against future
nationalizations represented by the participation of Argentine capital, and
the lack of interest of foreign companies in the smaller field development and
secondary recovery projects, Argentine firms are likely to contribute between
20 and 30% of the total private investments. The feasibility of such invest-
ment plans being carried out within the planned timeframe will depend to a
large extent on the availability of appropriate financing.



- 12 -
Financial Sources
45.       Inadequate access to fresh capital and to bank credit presents major
constraints to greater participation of Argentine private firms in petroleum
exploration and development. Argentina's capital market is of moderate depth;
the oil industry is considered fairly risky, and firms find it difficult to
mobilize fresh equity from the market. Although several Argentine oil companies
have solid financial structures, many of them are considered to be at the
limits of their borrowing capacity since local banks possess little expertise
in petroleum and, being in no position to evaluate projects, base their deci-
sions almost exclusively on balance sheet positions. Furthermore, almost
all local currency loans are available only on a short-term basis. The only
source of long-term local currency financing for petroleum projects is BANADE.
To date, BANADE has made eight loans for oil and gas projects using its own
resources. In evaluating the technical aspects and risks of these projects,
BANADE relied almost exclusively on YPF's decision to award a contract and
financed up to 15% of the gross value of the guaranteed minimum production
curve specified in the contracts between YPF and the companies. However, when
YPF changed its contractual procedures in 1979, BANADE decided to suspend
lending to the sector because it felt incapable of appropriately evaluating
the new and more complex applications. Thus, no loans were made during the
last two years. Aside from BANADE loans, the only other source of term
financing has been the Euro-currency market, through both foreign and local
banks at interest rates of about 1% to 2-1/2% above LIBOR. These loans are
restricted in amount and are available only to the strongest local firms, for
field development and secondary recovery projects, and not for exploration.
Their maturity is generally limited to five years with no more than one year
grace, hardly suitable to the needs of several kinds of petroleum projects,
particularly initial field development which require gestation periods of
several years.
Sector Issues and Bank Assistance
46.       Two principal issues affect further sector development:  (i) the
inadequacy of energy planning, particularly regarding natural gas; and
(ii) the inappropriate pricing of energy resources. These problems, which
are partly interrelated, are being addressed by the Government. The Govern-
ment is in the process of preparing a comprehensive energy plan, to which the
Bank is providing significant contributions in a number of ways. As part of
the Bank-financed Oil and Gas Engineering Project (Loan 1880-AR), the Govern-
ment is carrying out a study that will analyze the optimum development and
utilization of natural gas on a regional and national basis, together with an
assessment of alternative uses for fuels to be replaced by gas and of related
investment requirements. An audit of hydrocarbon reserves is also being
undertaken in connection with the above-mentioned project. A study on a
least-cost power expansion program was funded under a Power Transmission and
Distribution Project (Loan 1330-AR) approved in September 1977. The country's
coal potential will be assessed in connection with the recently approved Coal
Exploration Project (Loan S-020-AR). The Government is also developing an
energy conservation program and as an initial step, an energy audit of major
energy-consuming industries would be carried out partly financed under the
proposed Refinery Conversion Project.



- 13 -
47.       Fuel pricing in Argentina is complex, and relates both to the ab-
solute level of fuel prices and to the relative pricing of various energy
sources at different stages from production to consumption. From early 1976
until mid-1978, the Government enacted substantial price increases at all
levels. However, in an attempt to slow down inflation, the Government kept
these price increases significantly below those of the overall price level and
fuel import costs in late 1978 and 1979. Consequently, by the end of 1979,
prices of petroleum products were below international levels. Considerable
progress to modify this situation was made during 1980, partly as a result
of the dialogue with the Bank, especially in the context of the Oil and Gas
Engineering Project and more recently during the preparation of the proposed
Refinery Conversion Project. The Government is implementing a policy of
gradually increasing prices of crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas
to a level which would generate sufficient funds for YPF and GdE to meet their
operating costs, service their debts and fund a significant part of their
investments.
48.       Retail prices for petroleum products are now satisfactory and on
average reflect international crude prices, ranging, as of May 1, 1981, from
about US$1.26/gallon for gasoil to about US$2.09/gallon for premium gasoline.
A large percentage of final products prices is accounted for by taxes and does
not accrue to crude producers or refiners. Needed changes in the relative
prices of natural gas and other fuels are being analyzed in the context of the
gas optimization study under the Oil and Gas Engineering Project (Loan 1880-AR).
The study is expected to be completed by the end of 1982. The Government of
Argentina has informed the Bank that it intends to continue adjusting petroleum
product prices periodically to reflect adequately changes in internal price
levels and international petroleum prices, taking into account the results of
the natural gas optimization study financed under Loan 1880-AR. Furthermore,
the Government has represented to the Bank that final consumer prices of
petroleum would, at the minimum, be maintained in real terms at May 1, 1981
levels as measured by changes in the non-agricultural wholesale price index.
49.       The Bank's strategy in the petroleum sector includes four main
elements. The first, which was initiated under the Oil and Gas Engineering
Project, consists of assisting in the planning of oil and gas development.
This project is expected to give rise to a number of other projects with YPF
and GdE, including exploration/development, gas recycling, secondary recovery,
and oil and gas transport infrastructure, which could be considered for future
Bank financing. Assistance in overall energy planning is provided through
different studies addressing specific subsectoral issues to help assemble the
building blocks necessary for an integrated energy plan. The second element
in the strategy consists of institutional improvement in the public sector;
both the Oil and Gas Engineering Project and the proposed Refinery Conversion
Project would contribute to the institution-building of YPF, while the proposed
project would strengthen the operational capability of BANADE to channel
medium and long-term funds to the oil and gas sector. The third element,
which is the main objective of the proposed project, consists of supporting
the Government's policy of increasing the role of private firms in the sector
to improve sector efficiency. The fourth element involves engaging in a
pricing/sector policy dialogue with the Government.



- 14 -
Previous Bank Lending
50.       The first Bank loan in support of Argentina's hydrocarbon sector was
the Oil and Gas Engineering Project (Loan 1880-AR) approved in June 1980. The
project will (i) provide increased auditing of reserves and seismic surveys
and (ii) fund a natural gas optimization study (para. 48). Good progress has
been made in project implementation. The second loan, US$10 million for Coal
Exploration (Ln. S-020-AR), was approved in December 1980. The project will
help evaluate coal reserves in Argentina's most promising areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
51.       The Government of Argentina and BANADE have requested a Bank loan
to help finance an Oil and Gas Credit Project. The project was appraised
by a Bank mission which visited Argentina in November 1980. A report,
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Oil and Gas Credit Project," dated May 26,
1981 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplemen-
tary data sheet is presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Buenos
Aires from May 5 to 8, 1981. The Government of Argentina was represented by
Mr. Blanco, Director of Economic Policy, Ministry of Economy; BANADE was
represented by Mr. Aguirre, Deputy General Manager for External Borrowing.
52.       The proposed project would be aimed at overcoming the financial and
institutional constraints that are inhibiting increased participation by the
Argentine private sector in the development of Argentina's promising hydrocar-
bon resources. The project would provide long term financing for sound
primary and secondary recovery and exploration projects and develop BANADE's
institutional capacity to appraise and supervise oil and gas projects.
Furthermore, the project would act as a catalyst in attracting commercial
banks to provide financing for subprojects and thus increase their lending for
the oil and gas sector.
Project Description
53.       Petroleum Financing.  The project would provide US$99 million of
long term funds to finance subprojects in oil and gas development. Subloans
would help finance the foreign exchange component of eligible subprojects
comprised of activities in oil and gas exploration, primary and secondary
recovery projects, pipelines and gas treatment plants, to be undertaken by
private Argentine companies which have been awarded an exploration or develop-
ment contract by YPF. Taking into account the need for equity funds by
otherwise sound private petroleum companies, equity investments of BANADE
in oil and gas firms in connection with specific subprojects will also be
financed. This is consistent with established procedures for industrial
credit projects. Given that the average subproject involves investments in
the order of US$80-100 million, it is expected that one or two exploration,
and five to seven development subprojects would receive funds under the
proposed loan.



- 15 -
54.       Technical Assistance.  The proposed loan would include US$1.0 million
to help strengthen BANADE's appraisal and supervision capacity for petroleum
lending. US$650,000 would help finance 48 man-months of full time consultant
services (para. 59) at about US$15,000 per man month, including travel,
subsistence and overhead. The amount is reasonable considering the high
level of expertise required and the salaries prevailing in the petroleum
industry. An additional US$350,000 would be available to finance an overseas
training program of BANADE professionals in oil and gas lending and supplemen-
tary consultant services for specific subprojects.
The Borrower
55.       BANADE was created in 1970 as an autonomous government-owned develop-
ment bank. Because of highly negative interest rates and inefficient manage-
ment, lending operations came to a virtual halt by early 1976. The Government
that took over in 1976 recapitalized the institution, brought in new manage-
ment and adopted a new charter which provides for the maintenance of opera-
tional autonomy, satisfactory evaluation standards and financial viability.
To support industrial restructuring and institution building, the Bank made
a US$100 million loan to BANADE in 1977. The loan is now almost fully com-
mitted and a follow-up loan is under preparation. Although some improvements
would still be required, BANADE's efficiency has improved significantly and it
is now the fourth largest bank in Argentina.
56.       BANADE's board consists of a chairman, two vice chairmen, and nine
directors, all appointed by the Government for terms of four years. Prior
to joining BANADE, the present chairman, vice chairmen and directors had
several years of experience with banking, industry and the Government.
BANADE is administered through its general manager and six assistant general
managers. Lending operations are conducted through four departments: (i)
investment and development credit (industrial project financing); (ii) mining
credit which includes the oil and gas lending unit; (iii) ordinary credit
(commercial banking operations and development credit for small and medium
industries); and (iv) external financing (import/export financing). Resource
mobilization activities are carried out by the domestic finance department
and the external finance department. BANADE has 33 branches throughout the
country and some 3,600 full-time employees.
57.       While the quality of BANADE's professional staff has improved over
the years, progress in this regard has been somewhat slower than expected
for several reasons. The management has devoted more time to day-to-day
operations, and has not been able to mount effective staff training and
development programs. BANADE's salary levels, which are fixed on a Government-
wide basis outside of management's control, are not fully competitive with
private banking institutions. Hence, BANADE allows its staff, especially
those in the technical field, to supplement their salaries with part-time
work. While this situation is not ideal, it is a long-established practice in
BANADE and other Argentine state enterprises. The Bank is addressing these
issues through the supervision of the Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1463-AR)
and the preparation of the proposed Second Industrial Credit project. The
present project concentrates on helping BANADE to reestablish and strengthen
its oil and gas lending unit.



- 16 -
58.       While BANADE's policy statement allows a debt-equity ratio of
10:1, the actual ratio at year-end 1980 was about 5.5:1. Hence, the proposed
loan would not require additional capitalization. Total assets amounted to
almost US$4.6 billion equivalent (1980). About 39% of BANADE's liabilities
were deposits; 42% foreign obligations; and the remainder, miscellaneous
liabilities. Doubtful loans are estimated to be about 6.4% of the total
portfolio at year-end 1980, and are covered adequately by reserves. Although
the inflation rate has been quite high over the past few years, profits have
been sufficient to prevent a massive erosion of equity as had occurred in
1975.
59.       Under the ongoing Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1463-AR) BANADE
was to be audited by a special unit of the Central Bank (BC). The liberaliza-
tion of the banking system and the 1980 financial crisis placed competing
demands on BC's staff and BC was unable to assign personnel to audit BANADE's
accounts. As a result, only unaudited reports for 1979 and 1980 were available.
BANADE has contracted a qualified external auditing firm to assist the Sindico,
a representative of the National Executive Authority in BANADE's board of
directors, to undertake the 1980 audit. This arrangement will be replaced by
a system involving the same external auditing firm which would then undertake
the future audits on its own. To ensure the implementation of an external
auditing system suitable to the Bank, satisfactory completion and submission
to the Bank of the audit report for 1980 with comparative figures for 1979
done by a private qualified independent auditing firm under the supervision of
the Sindico and contracting of auditors acceptable to the Bank for the 1981
audit will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (section
6.01.(b)) of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Subborrowers
60.       Subborrowers would be selected from private Argentine companies
which have been awarded (or are part of a consortium which has been awarded)
an exploration (risk) or a production contract by YPF. Of the thirty or so
Argentine companies operating in hydrocarbon exploration and production, about
seven are likely to become subborrowers under the proposed project because of
their prominent position in the sector, and their technical expertise. Only
three of the seven have assets in excess of US$100 million. All seven com-
panies have acquired considerable experience in oil and gas development and
are currently involved in a number of contracts with YPF. The companies
operate efficiently; on average, their oil lifting costs are lower than that
of YPF. The overall financial situation of the seven companies is generally
satisfactory. The balance sheets of five of them show a significantly positive
net working capital, although two have a current ratio of 0.6:1. Their total
debt to equity ratio varies between 1:1 and 4:1. The total indebtedness of
these companies towards banks and financial institutions ranges from 0.3 times
equity to 2.3 times equity, the average being around one times equity.
Implementation
61.       BANADE's Board has approved a satisfactory statement of policy on
oil and gas lending which emphasized project appraisal as the principal
basis for lending decisions. The experience and technical capability of the
operator and of the sponsoring company would be considered in the evaluation,
together with the conditions of contract with YPF and the operating agreement



among the partners involved in the project joint venture. BANADE will be
required to submit the first 3 subprojects for Bank approval irrespective of
subloan amounts, after which a free limit of US$6 million would apply. These
arrangements would result in the review by the Bank of a representative sample
of subprojects covering approximately 75% of the proposed loan amount. Only
subprojects with projected economic rates of return of at least 12.0 percent
(the estimated opportunity cost of capital for Argentina) will be eligible for
Bank financing (Section 2.02 (c) of the Draft Loan Agreement). For subloans
of more than $10.0 million, the Bank's review of BANADE's appraisals, to the
extent necessary, would be supplemented with field visits by Bank staff.
BANADE's supervision of subprojects would include frequent field visits during
implementation and submission by the borrowing firms of audited annual reports
and periodic reports on the subprojects.
62.       Close coordination would be required between BANADE and YPF at the
policy and operating levels to enable BANADE to program its oil and gas
lending on the basis of YPF's plan to award contracts, and to give BANADE
access to bidding and technical information necessary in the appraisal of
specific subprojects. The Government gave assurances that YPF will facilitate
provision of relevant information to BANADE (Section 3.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Recognizing the large demand for and the complicated
nature of petroleum projects, BANADE has established a separate division to
deal with energy projects, particularly oil and gas projects. To strengthen
this division, BANADE would hire several petroleum geologists and engineers.
Under the technical assistance component of the proposed loan, BANADE would
contract from a consulting firm, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, the full-time services of an experienced geologist and petroleum
engineer for a minimum period of two years as senior staff of the division to
help appraise projects and to train BANADE's staff on the technical aspects
of oil and gas lending. Assurances were obtained that BANADE would maintain
an adequate technical staff, including consultants, for oil and gas lending
(Sections 3.01(b) and 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financing and Cofinancing
63.       The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of
eligible subprojects, up to a maximum of US$20 million for any one subproject.
The subproject's-sponsors would be expected to contribute about 25% of costs
in equity. Given an average subproject size of US$100 million, additional
financing would be necessary. The expected sources would be: (i) subproject
cofinancing through local and foreign banks; (ii) cofinancing in association
with the Bank loan; and (iii) BANADE's resources (pesos or Eurodollar lines of
credit). BANADE would utilize its appraisal capability as a catalyst to
mobilize funds from local and foreign banks for properly screened subprojects.
Several private banks have already indicated their intention to finance
subprojects with BANADE. In addition, BANADE is discussing cofinancing
arrangements for about US$100 million with several banks. Once BANADE accepts
a firm cofinancing offer, the Bank would enter into the usual Memorandum of
Understanding with the commercial bank or banks. To attract cofinancing,
BANADE would be prepared: (a) to share project information with other lenders;
(b) to include a cross-default clause in its subloan agreements, and (c)
to skew its subloan amortization schedules towards later maturities. Finally,
if a gap remained in the subproject's financing plan, BANADE would provide
the necessary resources either through peso loans or drawing down its external
lines of credit.



- 18 -
64.       The Bank loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years
of grace with interest at 9.6% per annum. The amortization schedule would
conform to the aggregate of the following two amortization schedules: (a) for
the US$99.0 million portion for the subloans and investments, the aggregate
amortization schedule of the subloans and investments fixed at the time when
the funds have been fully committed; and (b) for the US$1 million for technical
assistance, standard Bank amortization schedule. Any loan funds that were
prepaid as funds from investments sold would be retained by BANADE and be used
for similar subprojects (Section 2.08 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms
65.       Subloans would have terms of up to 15 years, including a grace
period of up to four years. BANADE's onlending rate would be 13.5% at a
minimum.  BANADE would onlend in US dollars only and assume the cross-currency
risk. Provision would be made for accelerated repayments based on a percentage
of production payments by YPF arising from development subprojects. Subloans
would be secured to the satisfaction of BANADE, including through an assignment
of production payments and contract rights. When ad hoc firms are established
to implement a project, completion agreements would be obtained from the
parent companies. In the case of exploration subprojects, sponsoring compa-
nies should be capable of servicing their debts in the event the subproject
is not successful.
Procurement
66.       Subprojects would be based on exploration and development contracts
awarded by YPF through international competitive bidding. Argentine firms
winning these contracts have met YPF's prequalification requirements and are
technically experienced. Companies normally form ad hoc consortia to bid on
YPF's contracts, and procurement decisions of the operating partner in the
consortium are subject to scrutiny from the other partners. Procurement under
the loan would therefore be undertaken by contract award winners in accordance
with established commercial practices in the petroleum sector which are accept-
able to the Bank. For purchases of goods and services over US$1.0 million,
three quotations would be presented by subborrowers. Foreign manufacturers,
suppliers and service firms are well represented in Argentina. Where sub-
sidiaries of the parent company will provide the services required (e.g.,
drilling), their fees would be subject to more detailed scrutiny by BANADE.
Disbursement
67.       Disbursement for petroleum projects financed by subloans would cover
100% of the foreign exchange cost of direct imports; 60% of the cost of
imported off-the-shelf items, and 45% of the cost of locally supplied goods
and services. These percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange
components of these items. For the technical assistance component, the Bank
would disburse 90% of total expenditures for consulting services and 100% of
foreign expenditures for staff training abroad.



- 19 -
68.       The proposed loan is expected to be committed by December 31, 1983
and disbursed by December 31, 1985. In order to accelerate the hiring of
consultants, advance contracting would be permitted to the full amount of
the technical assistance component (US$1.0 million) including retroactive
financing of US$200,000 for expenditures made after April 1, 1981. BANADE
would like to resume lending to the oil and gas sector as soon as possible
with Bank financial and technical support. Hence, retroactive financing of up
to US$5 million to finance subproject expenditures from April 1, 1981 is
proposed.
Benefits
69.       The proposed project, the first Bank project involving private oil
and gas firms, would contribute to the development of vital Argentine resources
in an effective and timely fashion. By providing long-term funds directly and
acting as a catalyst to attract parallel financing from other sources, the
project would contribute to the timely implementation of sound development
and exploration projects, and help the country move towards petroleum self-
sufficiency. Economic rates of return of subprojects are expected to exceed
20 percent, based on the experience with projects financed by BANADE in the
past. Total investments in these subprojects would be in the order of
US$500 million and total incremental petroleum production resulting from
this investment would be in the order of 50 million BD over the life of the
subprojects.
70.       The project would develop BANADE's capacity to identify, appraise
and supervise oil and gas projects. This would help lift one of the critical
institutional constraints which has prevented the local banks from financing
oil and gas projects to be undertaken by the Argentine private companies.
BANADE would also help develop access by borrowers to international capital
markets by arranging for foreign banks to provide parallel financing for
subprojects. At the sectoral level, the proposed project would support
the Government's efforts to improve sector efficiency by strengthening the
role of private sector firms in oil and gas exploration and development.
Risks
71.       Taking into account the technical assistance component and the
comprehensive subproject review process involved, the project presents no
special risk in respect of the soundness and efficiency of the petroleum
development subprojects financed. The exploration subprojects would
present a higher degree of risk as to success in finding petroleum in
commercial quantities, but would involve only financially strong firms
capable of repaying the subloan irrespective of subproject success.



- 20 -
72.       On the sectoral side, should the Government depart from its present
policy of encouraging private sector firms to participate in oil and gas
sector development, or not be flexible enough in adjusting the terms for YPF's
bidding program to continue to attract the interest of the private sector, not
enough subprojects may be forthcoming for financing. However, these and other
policy matters such as petroleum pricing, and their implications for achieving
desired sector goals, have been discussed regularly between the Argentine
Government and the Bank and will continue to be followed closely. On the whole,
the project presents a moderate level of risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between The Argentine Republic and
the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo (BANADE) and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreements are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approved the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 17, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-21 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGENTINA, - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEERT
ARGENTINA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERjACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KHM.)                                                      - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2766.9
AGRICULTURAL    1786.0                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (IS$)                  640.0      1120.0    2280.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1129.0       1703.0    1873.0                  1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     20.6         23.7      26.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 73.6         78.4      81.6                     63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       33.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         41.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACNED                  2065
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KH.                        7.4          9.0       9.5                    28. 1                     77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0         13.0      15.0                    81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         30.7         29.3      28.9                    41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                         63.7         63.7      62.8                    54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   5.6          7.0       8.3                     3.9                       8. 2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8         1.4       1.3                     2.7                       1.6
URBAN                              2.6          2.0       1.9                     4.1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.0         22.0      21.0                    34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.0          9.0       8.0                     8.9                       8. 9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.5         1.5       1.4                     2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED W011EN)    ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0        101.0     122.0                   106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  122.0        130.0     126.0                   107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         104.0        109.0     109.5                    65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       65.0         69. 0     71.2                    33.7                      39.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      6.0          4.0       3.0                     8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.0         67.4      71.0                    63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..         59.0        ..                    66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAIION)
TOTAL                               ..         56.0      66.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..         69.0      76.0                    80.4
RURAL                               ..         12.0      26.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         85.0      97.0                    62. 3
URBAN                               ..         87.0     100.0                    79.4
RURAL                               ..         79.0      83.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           660.0        500.0     530.0                  1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..        980.0        ..                  1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            160.0        179.0        ..                   480.3                     289.7
URBAN                               ..        144.0
RURAL                               ..        989.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..         ..                      ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.7          3.8
URBAN                              3.5           ..        .
RURAL                              4. 3          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1. 4         1.4
URBAN                              1.3          1.4
RURAL                              1.7           ..7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             69.0         76.0      79.O/c
URBAN                             84.7           ..
RSTRAL                            19.0           ..



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                98.0        106.0     110.0                   99. 7                    105.9
MALE                 98.0       106.0    110.0                    101.0                    109.3
FEMALE               99.0       107.0    111.0                     99.4                    103.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 23.0        32.0      41.0                   34.4                      64.0
MALE                 23.0        30.0      38.0                    33.5                     71.1
FEMALE               24.0        35.0      44.0                   34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (B OF SECONDARY) 50.0         59.0      63.0                    38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           22.0        19.0      18.0                   30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          7. 0        7.0       8.0                    14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       91.0        93.0      94.0                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       24.0         61.0     81.0                    43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       170.0       379.0    838.0                   245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       22.0        147.0    177.0                    84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                155.0       179.0    147.0                    63.3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0         2.0       3.2                     ..                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8131. 7      9213.2  10140.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 21.4        24. 7     26.0                    22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             20.0        16.0      14.0                    37.1                     37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               36.0        32.0      29.0                    23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.5        38.8      38.6                    31.5                     40.9
MALE                                61.0        58.1      57.3                    48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                              17.2        19.3      19.8                    14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9        0.9        1.0                     1.4                     1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS  50.9        50.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS    6.9        4.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.6        14.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      653.0                  474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      577.0                  332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
.Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Percent of population.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all otber data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DtFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDIICATORS
Hate.  Allhh-uhth  daa  t  drantrtsore  g.eneraly judged the most  -ahori1ttat- and reliable. it ahatd alma be -t"d th.i they  ay sot he inite-
oatiaoly  oo.yr. be. be. as  ofaelako tandar dised detiritirts and o...eyt  use.d by dotif ert-fnastte isbi  rrlesig   b  data.  The data see, seas-
nhelees      . __. 'sa   odsrb   oeeo antd I* tdi-ate teerde, ard ohar-teine oentct   ajur d iftrnoeh...                    noott
Theennrnr  g.r.p. are Ill ahe same oarirY gnry at the subj it  -ronlyan(2oonrynoywscetwt  tersnigicmesnthratygou
at ti  suheot  ounty  (arept  ot "apItl o-pias oil Enp..ters" atoOhr   'Middle 'norms toeth Atatos and Middls   - tact  ts   ..o.e  horace of atnoset
otorahelodiairathe      a       aanteorradcnnrng                g          iroap th
lago riCd  (thonodII     a.                            traio   a I'irdi--ith - tuputatto   tnas  byha-   o                                                   hp..ira   py
ToaIf      otlao snao  o            hyisa  Isod  rea ,d  totandoatet       .                atin    oliidta             ein tb_       la  eoembytnt
Aiidlt-ri-  tatat   tnrolooioe   sitsour_                        rpronol ....rola.t t to.. yth  Tarmio  Penmen-. Papalettad dIn.    by sami,ben at pncIf i
OPhiCiTa-101- hay..     yeo'ayit  otinas  a.  roet  ar pIiebdoo                         anen.an  raet(dacdedbydheR  n id.pnieobn at hPceatil- hc ye
ittoi  Cltntii'Iat ri  Talf  -9 annual  -cocoaptid athancalaogy(oa                     ar     .te   .nrne.  bard beptt.hwre,ioashalhmdmdcl
an   loa.P--oc     atrlgs  a   yr-,-tol-an  adgeohemaleli-henoreno  pe Iaenb  snatd  by                                        Itphy irim(bnbt  amdra   aitai
data,                                                                      limited neage of sedarsi tartitnise.; -P-1111,d-  I  ban sta besita   papse orbtmhept
GNP FER C,P                                                                                              Pt  tit.,     .... I. dntsnaloe  iospnsiipi  snna  sd  potStedbapi..,. ndros
encgoocre;190   90 _and_197        faa.leaI is..Puchl  ie m  ear hostabdi-toa.as.sds a-
~Ry_ CONSUMTIc ONi yEaR 20       urn   ouaiopnetos nbsda   90                              adteesl   el,ahsdno    de   a  on way--t-l. not,I be talded
totoli, p -put-o by -ag  sod nead theIy       mn- lip  o  fertliyrae.                   a..oPhadfr  tnsita pabhnpoans."    t
Prjatitorastrntcnciatrrtnocyrseatrheeenlseon           Asraaa ert  enoa               E'troos-ica. urbani. adanl   foraeda
laglie  apeomryat irh  ncrasngnit  ounot a  ttta at  tcom      hrit  rctsi pe -to-  toalH           hs   n   aalocpecasna
lne .sd  eae  ae n_           tso  athliian7.                9ear.the-  p1om-           daltg.nerrol.~linsooe-ton-ernsotl.hIh -ndnae   end
rotor  to  mii a  rt  alsoI.. ban  tre  -entls s1s60io  decline i                        bMEcpedyet._.byI-f    yIpyj                        btb         d.l.it
coo   onto.    hsi  ohneda                  ttnmtIiytam    elie0                       djaied..  Ptoolnt   rathIos
Inosyar11 0sa   hot  ofdcln.o aSi..niscspae                                     years Ih a    .adjustedtoitemt lathe of primar  -dbs-on  ton
onnlcl.cotlcon    oiosldoei-nnlsnwaecsll    ecn
ma    inasr   oaaAh senoe       .hey..be   tioan   oooto                          ic  som  pup_ic  t  blw  rehn  ohe ibi    of-i.ia       . moli ageq..t
torolatlon         r200-C  ..I   l                                                            t Iotysoniorroi ieAt  b-sdt Iua  years at apIndprmrtsercb
-il-ya   ryltinpt;qarbyosnr(11haars)o                                        poIesgnra,tsaiss,ontahe   rinn   istcnaetdnpa  i
tota  are.P.                                                                             usalh      f1.c1   mr  fae  onepnsotascn    esai
lntScr; 1960, 1970. and 1078 data.~~~h                                          yao-h-otera oI_riat an  onodarn . ~  _          -1 Tonal d studnsmtoi
-ooailio Inrt   aslnoeo      oa- Idig_  fnoal goat  rate  of-1 O-                          ptmr   a  scnardees  otn  by                    -pen -_ftecrsish
Eat-c  -Oar  95-I, lObI-ta,  sod  _970-78. -sPiede-tao    i  aalaa   pouaio   gd    yar   n   0000
CrdIithtt.nnoosrd                  h os l:os   irh   E50-ct-ssod-riaid-yea
popolatrlo  11IBb1971.n and 197  daa.toab                                                                                         ty
Crd   ni   ae(rttosn)-bnuldab   e  hosn   tsdya                                   PsegrCr_os  hosdrnlnitl-Psegroascmrs   oO
poyalacon; ThA, tOTO,and 197  data,cots betirg tes than  ight peanom;  oolodenamholsnsa, beaams an
los bmooaotn.t-aeae  ubratdoh asomn    il  eri                                         nil teey  ebile.d  .1d.lig
therara   erdctn   ohdihe  oetttrrs                           g -spcthl  Oar-        tai  toioo  (c  thousand nonoaI-tlot) i- Alli. typs   t.mac pore-ortadb
nilyrtc   sal   hero   nrae   oigi_90   91   r   97.                                 tcuattgorlpba   e   hcst   fpplnu;srae   at
Laio   lnin-tscas. oul            usds      rna   ume   t  cetos                  casdooeor  i   ctniaas   nyer   he  eleotoca    itda
athrn-aorldelsoudr  uyln  a   aloc  fml  paalgprgaita  i   icc;daart                                        oetyar ainnbecmprbettcsma
raalhyaonog-Aoo      . Iaontonatot.oteI   erotono martindocoitsaoihdioaig
prdcto    i  l_ fo   otodlts   P         ui--O   -icosladoss- an  teed end            Pliosit   denoted,, primaiyt  modo   eea   ne    ti ....idrmdie
te   r  Iiad(. grnaerootnatnhocnrinasdt                                               cic:araiddaia  teIea,  n                  had . adetesonto dronstcieswasI
ra.ltionlaeanpooo   rieoih,16-I   97,sd17   aa                                             r  sculls ualts.b,                        h     fi 
P      'Yuct  apl cScloresdporeotof  etoremrta  -  owdtedgro
tct deoisln  o  t          P fard -t knpeaaiale it..  hountt pn  ca ita      loloVOP
per. Ta.acialsupIsoeosdoetopdoin. ( 000000,e. les                                    Tcncl   i-b Poeim    e (ntoo ...( tofonos.toni  acIon.p.mo.s inl dio
set  ao   sotisa.d Op rtthtse.00 ph.,oiogiiigasn   for...matiati-               198 dais
houetldk  enl  191-by, 1070,a ed 1877             --   ,_l_    I. dais.              tlyh If as pretagIo cit toaI aoIoo;1t0   9iadi                         as
4YRoitucyly of foodpe  dy:.tenspl  cifo   adue   taoE. (15_lorrt.  eo   o   s   speonse0   oa  lhnfre   90
II    Icr,11D al   coresetbibedyCl prond...Idftrci                                1970ande i97 i dt.1                                        h
a-cp.pl-poenasa   oraefrth   rl,  rpsd  ptoIateTIr                                       9V  1971,-nd t97idata   Thos  ars          .e t -i Tatni1i-ani...scIIc..sIII
uar-   Pcdtony;lhik, V 971ad,   1970-dit.                                                age-ens LZ strnan  ot the      . pouaion,d end  -bag tinetedfsa
rle   Ic 195isoDs an1 ule9n6    rn0prda,191h,090ar   97   aa. Oonmrpdedno  an1-9atatp70ainnn 17adhEad0c
i   196tato   197 girth  7drmons   t tio te                                                               1 boosdbahlt P-Itest and hai  -_ isaod b   ih
C-d- D-h R.t.(!" th-:~~~~~~~~~~101                                    perent,sichna 2  persot..oaeasI0fyedan,andpeoraf tl pecen
attrh  1t.t7 o,d170 data.pi.-
Intct Iirtli  i as  Abe e hu Indl-E hoacf d"inette   . at  -iloct  uner onIeo                  C
aIltyoe  e _ hoso                    h:tte births.                                        lt-nty uhioonPnsn    oseCnl(01ercmta     ubnad  oa
eate  suh s  tht tam   rotcte  honhoca,sprI ga  ne  dsonrynls9atmta   elt    Paerflem   lni- lintAre  sp. pIns  r a...    end~ ta.d -
ooonhderndaa Osig nithOn reasusied scans   - Pt he  h tue   In rural~ o.en      (noeloar  adjusmen fort ..  bigger-  -Ys of liin  to t.l ara     s.-
croat - Oushet at people (nasal, orhen, sad TVree-ieerrmd-hysoanete
'e., b..i7ld._d tie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cibo tM
ot human turrets cod scais-aster byfneder-borte...ct-me or the usenat
iaPr-nds sd smilr ics-lanohs



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
E C O N OM  I C   D E V E L 0 P M E N T   D A T A
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                              Actual              Estimated   Projected
1970-    1979-
1976        1977        1979 b/    1980         1985       1976      1985      1976       1979      1985
Annual Growth
Millions of US$ at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate                 Rates              As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             53.484      56,240      59,886      60,906       77,004       3.3       4.3      100 7      99.3      98.8
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)        -385        -293          400         720         923        ..        ..        -.7        .7       1.2
Gross Domestic Income              53,099      55,947      60,286      61,626       77,927       3.3       4.3      100.0    100.0    100.0
Import Goods and NFS                3,837       4,456       7,922       9,854      13,213       13.1       8.9        7.2     13.1      17.0
Export Goods and NFS               -4.996      -6,841       7.871      -8,209      10.812        9.7       5.4       -9.4    -13.1    -13.9
Resource Gap                       -1,159      -2,385           51      1,645        2,401                  -        -2.2       0.0       3.1
Consumption Expenditures           41,157      41,847      46,491      49.248      62,557        3.3       5.1       77.7      77.1     80.3
Investment Expenditures            10,685      11,720      13,846      14,023      17,770       5.0        4.3      20.2      23.0      22.8
Domestic Savings                   11,844      14,022      13,795      13,378      15,370       4.5        1.8      22.3      22.9      19.7
National Savings                   11,440      13,535      13,300      12,072      14,157        3.6       1.0       21.4     22.1      18.2
MERCHANDISE TRADE                        Annual Data at Current US$                                                    As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                      500        874       2,241        2,922       6,433         -         -       18        33.6      33.7
Intermediate Goods               1,870      2,402        3,418       4,292       9,159         -        _        61.3      51.2      48.0
Petroleum & Products               560        584          617         868       1,466        -         -        18.4       9.2       7. 7
Consumption Goods                   70          98         398       1,103       2.030         -         -        2.3       6.0      10.5
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)    3,050          3,958       6,674       9,186      19,068         -                 100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products                 2,807       3,842       6,778      6,754       15,560         -         -        74.6     86.8      87.9
Manufactured goods                 956       1 495       1 027         909       2,136         -         -        25.4     13.2      12.1
Total Merch.Exports (f.o.b.)        3,763       5,337       7,805       7,663      17,696         -         -       100.0    100.0    100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1978 = 100
Export Price Index                     83          91          127       145         213
Import Price Index                     83          97         118        130         192
Terms of Trade Indez                   95          99         109        111         111
VALUE-ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate
Agriculture                         6,365       6,769       7,235        7,452       9,512      3.0         4.7      11.9      12.1      12.4
Industry and Mining               20,805      23,621       27,677      28,230       36,363      6.9        4.7       38.9     46.2      47.2
Services and others               26.314      25.870       24,974      25,224      31.129        .5        3.7       49.2     41.7      40.4
Total                             53,484      56,240       59,886      60,906       77,004      3.4        4.3    t0o00    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)                     billions of $a
Current Receipts                  ,984       3,040      18,319                                           -       12.3      13.1
Current Expenditures               903       2,183      15,089                                          -        11.3      10.8
Budgetary Savings                   81         857       3,230                                                     1.0      2.3
Transfers (net)                   -483        -724      -1,641                                           -        6.1        1.1
Investment                         343         920       3,840                                           -        4.3       2.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                  1965-       1970-       1975-       1980-
(Calculated from 3-yr. av. data)  1970           1975        1980        1985
Average ICOR                          4.4         6.9          6.8         3.7
Import Elasticity                     1.1         0.9          1.4         1.3
Marginal DomestSaiiuga.Rate,(%)  26.7            10.6         43.7        24.5
Marginal Nat'l Savings Rate (%)   23.2           16.2         44.5        24.9
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER                     LABOR FORCE                                      VALUE-ADDED PER WORKER IN 1975  PRICES
WORXER                           I                                                              AND EXCHANGE RATE
In millions  In % of Total   Annual Growth Net            In lUS$         Percent of Av.    Growth
1970    1975   1970   1975           1970/75              1970   1975    1970   1975          1970/75
Agriculture                      1,474   1.420       16     14          - 0.7              3,357  3,575        81      79         1.2
Industry                         2,948   2,941      32      29             0.0             5,407  6,842       131    150          4.5
Services                         4.790   5 779       52     57             3.8             4,140  3,618       100      80        -2.4
TOTAL                            9,213  10,140    100    100               1.0             4,133  4,551       100   T70           1.9
ROMEY AND PRICES                     1975        1976        1977         1978            1979
(billions of $a)
Money Supply (Ml)                   330.6    1,259.9    3,080.0    7,742.9                18,545.0
M1+ time deposits (M2)              409.7    1,538.4    6,254.2   17,169.3                49,604.0
Mi    % of GDP                       23.3         15.8        14.5        14.8                 15.0
K2 as % of GDP                       28.9        23.0         29.4        32.8                 37.0
CPI Index (1974=0OO)                270.6    1,472.2    4,o63.7   11,873.8                29,474.5
% change CPI index                  619.6       444-        176         192                  148
a/  The Argentine Central Bank has undertaken a major revision of the national accounts.  Data in this table are based
preliminary estimates and are not fully comparable to those presented in Report 2988-AR, dated July 10, 1980.
b/  The 1977-1979 changes reflect to a large extent the. real appreciation of the exchange rate during 1978/79.                    December 29, 1980



-25 -                                                                      ANNgEX51fI
- 25 -                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
SUMMARY BALANCEtOF PAYMENTSa1972  1973                               Estimated    Projected
SUMKARY bALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978               1979              1980         1985
Exports (incl. NFS)                  2,389       3,799       4,761        3,669       4,668       6,769       7,689              9,555             10,722      20,536
Imports (incl. N#S)                 -2,222      -2,633      -4,218      -4,517       -3,584      -4,892      -4,901             -9,059            -13,689     -24,071
Resource Balance                           167       1,166       1,543        -848       1,084       1,877         ,                   496            -2,967       -3.535
Net Intprest Payments                 -323       -382         -388        -425         -464        -370        -387               -493               -956      -1,935
Direct Investment Income               -60        -77           -35         -16         -28        -208        -292               -427               -546        -220
Other Factor Service Income              -3         4             7           1           2         -40        -136               -148               -250          -85
Net Factor Service Income                 -386       -455         -416        -440        -490        -618         -85             -1,068             -1,752        2 2,240
Current Transfers (net)                     -4         10          -             5          18           31          48                 35                 30          68
Bolnas on Current Account                -223        721          127      -1,283         611       1,290       2,021                -537            -4,690       -5,70'
Private Direct Investment                   10         10          10          -           -            146         290                265                739         805
Official Capital Grants                     10         26          17            9            8         -           -                  -13                -
Public M&LT Loans (net)                    205        364         228          -68       1,319         356       1                  1,297              2,435          260--
Disbursements                          522        832          776          448       1,908       1,064       2,910              2,284              3,081          610
Amortization                          -317       -468         -548         -516        -590        -708      -1,560              - 987              - 646         -350
Other M&LT Loans (net)                      51        -29          28           -3        -159         519         309              1,607              1,126        5,688
Disbursements                          101          71         244          405         268       1,059       1,328              1,988             2,089        8,013
Amortization                           -50       -100        -216          -408        -427        -540      -1,019              - 381              - 964      -2,325
Short-term Capital and
Transactions n.e.i                       82      -444        -339           275       -1,814         31      -1,558              1,823            -2,406           -
Change in Reserves
-  increase)                        135        648        - 71        1,7Q0            17 -2 Q:            2 .2!U           -4,442              2,796       -1,046
Level of Gross Reserves                    465      1,330       1,286          432        1,589      3,816        5,814            10,256              7,460        8,959
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Offi'cial Grants & Grant-Like                 -                 -           -            -           -           -                 -                  -            -
Public M&LT Loans
18RD                                                                                  115        205         165               306
Other Multilateral                   92         57           1          177           165        148         230               323
Bilateral                            82         42         519           42           146        117          74                41
Suppliers                           118        116         535          307           196        363         339               542
Financial Institutions              390        156         488          126           970        754       1,445             1,770
Bonds                               120         65         290          200           207         93         146               104
Total Public M6LT Loans             802        436       1,833           852        1.803      1,680       2,399             3,086
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Outstanding &
Disbursed                            2,368      2,792       3,046         2,901        4,251      4,836       6,791             8,088
Interest on Public Debt                156        199         233           250          258        308         512               915
Repayments on Public Debt              317        468          548          516          589        708       1,576               987
Total Public Debt Service              473         667         781          766          847      1,016       2,088             1,902
Other Debt Service                     174         244         408          626          659        602       1,369               544
Total Debt Service                     647        911       1,189         1,392        1,506      1,618       3,457             2,446
BURDEN ON EXPORT EARNTNr-P (7)
Public Debt Service                     19.8        17.6        16.4         20.9         18.1       15.0        27.2            19.9
Total Debt Service                      27.1        24.0        25.0         37.9         32.3       24.0       45.0             25.6
TDS + Dir. Inv. Income                  29.6        26.0        25.7         38.4         32.9       27.0       48.8             30.1
AVERAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
It. as 7. Prior Year DO&D                8.3        8.4         8.3          8.2          8.9       11.6        11.8             9.9
Amort. as 7. Prior Year DO&D             16.9       19.8        19.6         16.9         20.3       36.7         19.7           14.5
IBRD Debt Outst. & Disbursed           256        302          340          341          342        342         352             363
IBRD as % of Public Debt O&D            10.8        10.8        11.2         11.8          8.0        7.1         5.7             4.5
IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                    5.1        4.6         4.5           5.6          5.1        2.2         3.2             3.1
EXTERNAL DEST (Disbursed Only)           Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1978                Esti.ated Deat OustandinE on Dec. 31. 1979
Disbhrsed Only                  Percent                       ued uni                 Percent
IBRD                                          5                          5.2                         363                       4.5
Other Multilateral                           552                         8.1                         619                       7.7
Bilateral                                    728                        10.7                         796                       9.8
Suppliers                                 1,575                         23.2                       1,55S                      19.2
Financial Institutions                     2,o18                        38.5                       3,858                      47.7
Bonds                                        966                        14.3                         897                      11.1
Total Public M&LT Debt                        6,791                        100.0                      8,088                     100.0
1/ Public M+LT includes only loans to the Treasury.
June 1, 1981



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan No.   Year          Borrower            Purpose            Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                              481.0
1330        1977         SEGBA, S.A.        Power                   115.0         50.1
1384        1977         Argentina          Highways                105.0         74.9
1463        1978        Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit               100.0         53.7
1521        1978        Argentina           Grain Storage           105.0        103.7
1677        1979         Ferrocarriles      Railways
Argentinos S.A.                           96.0          96.0
1761        1979        Argentina 1/        Yacyreta Power         210.0         210.0
1880        1980         Yacimientos
Petroliferos      Oil and Gas
Fiscales            Engineering           27.0          20.3
1905        1980         Argentina 2/       Vocational
Training              58.0         58.0
S-020       1980         Argentina 3/       Coal Exploration         10.0         10.0
Total                                                1,307.0
Of which has been repaid                               212.6
1,094.4
Amount sold                        12.8
Of which has been repaid           11.2                   1.5
Total now held by Bank                               1,092.9
Total undisbursed                                                    626.7
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Not yet signed.
3/   Signed on May 13, 1981.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business       Loans      Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960    Acindar Industria            Steel Products         3.7         -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper            3.0         -        3.0
1961    Fabrica Argentina de         Automotive             1.5         -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.        Transmission
1962    PASA, Petroquimica           Petrochemicals         3.0         -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper           12.5         -       12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.        Steel Products        17.0         -       17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.        Printing and           5.0        2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/
1973   Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                    5.5         -        5.5
1977    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.          Textiles & Fibers    7.0           -        7.0
1977    Soyex S.A.                   Soybean Processing   9.0           -        9.0
Plant
1978    Massuh, S.A.                 Pulp and paper         8.0         -        8.0
1978    Juan Minetti, S.A.           Cement and
Construction
materials              9.0         -        9.0
1978    Ipako-Industrias             Chemicals and
Petroquimicas               Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                    10.0         -       10.0
1979    Alpesca S.A.                 Fisheries              5.2        0.5       5.7
Total Gross Commitments                           99.4         2.5    101.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                              48.2         2.0      50.2
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 51.2         0.5     51.7
Total Undisbursed                                  12.3         _       12.3



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of April 30, 1981)
Loan 1330-AR   Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977, Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Mainly because of budgetary constraints on the funding of local
cost requirements during 1978 and 1979, the overall execution of the project
has been delayed by about 20 months. This delay, however, does not signifi-
cantly affect the economic viability of the project. The project is proceed-
ing according to a revised schedule prepared in March 1980.
Loan 1384-AR   Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
After a delay of about 2 years because of the Government's
efforts in 1978 and 1979 to reduce public expenditures, the civil works
component is in full execution. All 48 civil works contracts have been
tendered and all awards have been approved by the Bank. About 20% of the
works were completed by the end 1980 and 60% are expected to be finished by
end 1981. Other project components are being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan 1463-AR   Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of September
23, 1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The US$99.5 million of loan funds available for onlending has
been 92% committed by BANADE. Projects for the remaining amount are under
study and funds for them should be committed in the near future. About one
third of the loan has been disbursed and disbursements should be completed
by mid-1982, about six months beyond the date originally forecast.
Loan 1521-AR   Grain Storage Project; US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Government has decided that the Grain Storage Project
should be redesigned to provide a line of credit to the private sector through
the Banco de la Nacion or another designated commercial bank for: (a) construc-
tion of new grain storage facilities; and (b) expansion and modernization
of existing facilities. The Grain Board prepared a proposal to discuss with
Banco de la Nacion and the Argentine Railways. The Government also reviewed
the proposals and recently presented them to the Bank for discussion.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1677-AR   Second Railway Project, US$96.0 million of November 8, 1979;
Effective Date: May 6, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is about one year behind schedule; it is now being
implemented in accordance with the revised investment plan agreed by the Bank
and the Government. Orders for US$48 million of Bank financed equipment have
been placed; orders for another US$25 million are expected to be placed within
the next month. Progress in line closures, rationalization of services,
staff reductions and operating improvements are in line with or above appraisal
targets. Financial targets have not been met, mainly because of low agricultural
traffic following unusually adverse weather condition in 1980.
Loan 1761-AR   Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project; US$210.0 million loan of
November 6, 1979; not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Project execution is proceeding about six months behind
schedule due to delays in the evaluation of bids. The loan is expected to
be made effective soon pending finalizing of changes to be made in the finan-
cial covenants included in the Loan Agreement.
Loan 1880-AR   Oil and Gas Engineering Project; US$27.0 million loan of
October 3, 1980; Effective Date: December 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is satisfactory with initial work
having commenced on all the major components. Contracts have been awarded
for auditing of reserves and conducting seismic surveys, and proposals are
being prepared for carrying out the gas optimization study.
Loan 1905-AR   Vocational Training and Technical Education Project;
US$58.0 million loan (not signed); not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Loan signing has been delayed pending resolution of budget
issues between the Ministries of Education and Economy. Officials of the new
Government, which took office in March, are reviewing all budget allocations
and are expected to resolve the impasse shortly. Meanwhile a project manage-
ment team has moved efficiently to put into place the mechanisms required
for project implementation.
Loan S-020-AR Coal Exploration Project; US$10.0 million loan of May 13, 1981
not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is underway and bids have been received
for consultant services and drilling equipment. Contracts are expected to
be awarded by August 1981.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ARGENTINA
HYDROCARBON CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            One year (November 1979/1980)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            Banco National de Desarrollo
(c)  First presentation to Bank:               November 1979
(d)  First mission to prepare the project:  July 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           November 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               May 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            September 1981
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The Government has given assurances that YPF would provide information
as necessary to BANADE (para. 62).
2.   BANADE has given assurances that:
(a) it would hire additional staff whose qualifications, experience,
and terms and condition of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 62); and
(b) any loan funds that were prepaid by subborrowers would be retained
by BANADE to be used for similar subprojects (para. 64).
3.   Fullfillment of condition 2(a) above and satisfactory completion and
submission to the Bank of the audit report for 1980 with comparative
figures for 1979 done by a private qualified independent auditing firm
under the supervision of the Sindico and contracting of auditors accept-
able to the Bank for the 1981 audit (para. 59) would be conditions of
effectiveness.



IBRD 15312
OCTOBER 1980
z~~~~~
'K'                 -    s  I~- 
4p    is   A  S                         I                         r; '  I   
e:r z;   1;: ' 1;02lt         % 0        4         0I a4 .  '- . 7
C           II
Af~~~~~~~~~~i                                                      s~~U i~             t
"s-        =                                o | | 1 :1 5 : f 0: 450 tD  iA F tt fj -30
s 5 2~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~4  4'                                                                      IANWte r \ !t2>< < <    iF<|00 0    
CAA<. .   .<-t                           .!9;1
E' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h If > IXt
CO== 3 r g ::.,<:g'      ;:::;    W;' 0 ,   0  000   :         j 0  
C  =  tk  ;V7;St;: 59;055EX; 7 0 a4 t2;30: 00ia:C;X0 E;;0; 2 E :: 2 X5t0it}tfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



