Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/05/2010 
Report No.:  AC5388
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Benin 
Project ID:  P096482 
Project Name:  BENIN: Malaria Control Booster Program 
Task Team Leader:  Ayite-Fily D'Almeida 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 16, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: June 1, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTHE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (60%);Other social services (25%);Central government administration 
(15%) 
Theme:  Malaria (40%);Population and reproductive health (20%);Health system 
performance (20%);Child health (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
31.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project will support the implementation of the national 2006-20 10 Malaria Control 
Program over the next four years. The success of the Project will be reflected in the 
overall increase access to, and utilization of, an effective package of malaria control 
interventions to reduce morbidity and mortality from malaria. Specifically, the Project 
would contribute to strengthen malaria control capacities to: (a) improve case  
 
management and treatment of malaria so that by year 2010, at least 60% of malaria of < 
5
years old cases are treated adequately within 24 hours from onset of fever; and (b)  
 
expand prevention activities so that by 2010 at least 60% children under 5 year old and 
of pregnant women sleep under an ITN; and that at least 60% of pregnant women receive 
a
prophylactic treatment. Note that the Project would attain a significant level of the 
national targets; the gap will be addressed by other donor and government financing.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project finances activities  gathered into four components  
 
Page  2
Component 1: Improving Case Management and Access to Treatment (US$ 14.7 
million): This component aims at  improving malaria treatment capacity principally in the 
public health sector and pre-selected non-government organizations capable of basic  
 
health care management (private sector health services will be provided with 
information and training as well). Updated care protocols for application of ACT and 
IPTp form the basis for provision of new drugs, basic medical equipment, and 
improvements in case management and strengthened supervision. Those involved are 
expected to be able to explain the reason for preventive medication, alternatively identify 
symptoms requiring treatment, provide the medication, and the required reporting. The 
component targets increasing access to treatment of children under 5 years from 30%  (in 
2006) to at least 60%  (in 2010), and of pregnant women from 25% (in 2006) to at least 
60% over the project period. The national targets are set over 80%, which would be met 
with other donor financing. The government has phased out chloroquine and switched to 
Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy (ACT). Under the omponent 2,000,000 blisters 
of ACT and 1,100,000 Rapid Diagnosis Tests (RDTs)  were  acquired, and rolled out to 
public health facilities; around 10,000 health professionals have been trained in the new 
malaria case management and treatment policy. Minor rehabilitation works have been 
carried out to make the storage capacities of the national drug procurement agency more 
suitable to accommodate the new drugs and other related medical equipment acquired 
with the proceeds of the IDA Grant.  
 
Component 2: Scaling up Prevention Activities (US$ 13.0 million): This component  
consists mainly of (i) large-scale distribution of LLINs to vulnerable populations 
(pregnant women and children under 5 years old) as part of a broader community-wide 
campaign to reach the critical community ITN coverage of 60%, involving ANC visits 
and immunization campaigns/clinics, and (ii) introduction of IPTp for pregnant women 
attending prenatal visits. Both of the above will be linked to exclusive and 
complementary breast-feeding education programs (already part of the ANC package), 
given the potential important protective role breast-feeding can play in providing malarial 
defenses for infants. Other measures of mass community efforts were considered, such as 
environmental management and indoor spraying. They were not included in the project at 
the time of preparation because they were then considered either not appropriate, not 
accepted by Benin policy, or part of the national strategy, or in a pilot testing phase 
(Larvicide pilot in Cotonou). LLINs (and IPTp medication, which is dealt with under 
Component 2) are supported by IEC/BCC campaigns, involving health professionals, 
NGOs and civil society organizations - especially those experienced in women and child 
care activities. Prevention training in the objectives, program and use of LLINs is carried 
out and is an important element in the success of the new program. LLIN distribution 
builds on channels and systems which already exist, including the MoH, pre-qualified 
NGOs, and private outlets. As of April 27, 2010, the project has procured and distributed 
1,875,000 LLINs to children under five years and pregnant women. The results achieved 
at mid-term are far beyond expectations, as they have exceeded the planned targets.  
 
Component 3: Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 1.7 million): This 
component is designed to strengthen malaria monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and data 
management for the overall national program at both central and operational levels in 
Page  3
coordination with key partners. To this end, the project has contributed to the 
development, adoption, and installation of a national  M&E framework  and system. The 
project is also financing  expanded sentinel sites, training, technical  
 
assistance to conduct studies and assessments, workshops, key equipment needs, and 
operational support.  Because it was agreed that there will be only one M&E system for 
the Benin Malaria Strategy, other development partners contribute to the  
 
development and implementation of the national M&E framework and system. WHO 
Benin has been providing technical support in maintaining an information management 
system. With the transition to ACT, special attention is being paid to careful management 
of procurement, and a quality assurance system including monitoring of the chemo-
potency of pre-packaged drugs, as well as with respect to bed nets, storage and supply 
chain management.  
 
Component 4: Program Management, Capacity Development and Promoting Regional 
Cooperation: (US$ 1.6 million). This component encompasses three Project aspects, each 
of which is administered or  by the National Malaria Control Program. (a) Project 
Management: The new Benin malaria control policy entails expansion of tasks, both 
quantitatively and qualitatively. With the new program covering the entire nation, with 
new prevention and treatment products coming on line, with increased needs for 
supervision and more intensive monitoring and evaluation, there is commensurate need to 
strengthen NMCP/PNLP management. Operating manuals have been updated to adjust to 
the scaling up of the malaria effort. While the government resources are being used to 
cover the largest share of management costs, the Project finances additional staff in 
procurement and financial management, and support staff, short-term consultancies to 
upgrade operating manuals, limited equipment, as well as NMCP/PNLP incremental 
operating costs. (b) Capacity Development: NMCP/PNLP staff and implementing  
 
partners requires in-service training to handle the new directions and demands created 
by the new malaria policy. While many training aspects are financed under Components 
1
and 2,  
 
component 3 supports coordinated training in child health and maternal health aspects, 
community mobilization, supervision, fiduciary management, reporting and monitoring.  
Development of  
 
training materials, workshops, short-term training, and study tours are also financed. 
(c)Regional Cooperation and Knowledge Sharing: Benin contributes to a regional effort 
to augment and leverage individual national efforts. The objective of this sub-component 
is to improve: (i) policy development, planning, and M&E; (ii) operational research and 
training; (iii)procurement and supply chain management system improvement and (iv) 
multi-country malaria control opportunities.  Under this component, the government  
prepared a detailed Vector Management Plan (VMP)  which was disclosed on February 
10, 2006.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project is located in the Ministry of Health (National Malaria Control Program), 
Cotonou, Benin. The project covers the whole country.   
 
Page  4
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni (AFTCS) 
Mr Africa Eshogba Olojoba (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project is categorized as B indicating that environmental impacts are expected to be 
minimal, site-specific and manageable at an acceptable level. The project prepared two 
safeguards instruments: An Integrated Vector Management Plan (IVMP) and Medical 
Waste Management Plan (MWMP). These instruments are been implemented 
appropriately by the borrower and supervised by the environmental specialist in the 
Bank#s task team during supervision and thematic missions   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There are no indirect and/or potential long-term impacts due to the project.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
There are no feasible project alternatives; especially as the project is expected to alleviate 
high morbidity and mortality associated with malaria pandemic; and the likely adverse 
impacts are being addressed by the elaborate implementation of the IVMP and MWMP.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The capacity of the borrower to address safeguards issues is considered adequate; 
especially under the aegis of ABE. In addition, the recipient has adequate safeguards 
measures to protect humans and environment from the interventions proposed in the 
malaria program. The vector control activities of the Benin have been subjected to 
detailed assessment by specialized agencies, such as the WHO. From the borrower side 
Page  5
the IVMP and MWMP are being implemented by the DHAB and every quarter, a 
safeguards report is submitted to the Task Team Leader.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders are communities, community relais, civil society organizations, 
private sector, decentralize district health centers, other partners and the Government. A 
stakeholder consultation process on Vector Management Plan in Benin was carried out on 
February 10, 2006 in Cotonou to disseminate the Vector Management Plan. All the 
stakeholders present at the workshop agreed with the way forward proposed in the Plan. 
The VMP is publicly available at the NMCP/PNLP  in Cotonou.  The EA/Waste 
Management Plan prepared under the Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project was disclosed in 
2002 is available for the public at the NMCP/PNLP.All key stakeholders have been 
informed of the availability. WWMP was re-disclosed at the Infoshop on December 13, 
2005 and adapted for the Malaria program.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/31/2002 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/22/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/13/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/23/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/10/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/16/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  6
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The project triggered the Pest Management Policy and, accordingly, an Integrated Vector 
Management Plan (IVMP) was prepared and disclosed. Currently this IVMP is being 
implemented. In-country disclosure is not necessary now, because in the restructuring, 
the Category is still B and no new policy is triggered. The appropriate safeguard 
instrument to do is to prepare an updated appraisal-stage ISDS, and that is what the 
project has done.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ayite-Fily D'Almeida 
04/28/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Africa Eshogba Olojoba 
04/28/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni 
04/28/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Vincent Turbat 
04/28/2010 
Comments:   
