                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2042



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-H2290)



                                   ON A

                                  GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.6 MILLION
                         (US$31 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                   FOR A

                    MALARIA CONTROL SUPPORT PROJECT



                              December 29, 2011




Africa Technical Health
Country Department
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective: 11/18/2011)

                       Currency Unit = CFAF (XOF)
                         CFAF 1.00 = US$0.0021
                           US$1.00 = CFAF 485

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACT     Artemisinin-based combination therapy
ANC     Antenatal care
BCC     Behavior change communication
CAME    Centrale d’Achat des Medicaments Essentiels et Consommables Medicaux
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDC     United States Centres for Disease Control
CPMP    Cellule de Passation des Marches Publics
DDS     Direction Departementale de la Sante
DGA     Development Grant Agreement
DHS     Demographic and Health Survey
DNPS    Direction Nationale de la Protection Sanitaire
DPP     Direction de la Programmation et de la Prospective
GFATM   Global Fund for AIDS, TB and Malaria
GoB     Government of Benin
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IEC     Information, education and communication
IPTp    Intermittent preventive treatment for pregnant women
IRS     Indoor residual spraying
ISR     Implementation Status Report
ITN     Insecticide-treated net
LLIN    Long-lasting insecticide-treated net
LQAS    Lot Quality Assurance Sampling Method
M&E     Monitoring and evaluation
MDG     Millennium Development Goal
MERG    RBM’s Monitoring and Evaluation Research Group
MIRT    World Bank’s Malaria Implementation Resource Team
MIS     Malaria Indicator Survey
MoEF    Ministry of Economy and Finance
MoH     Ministry of Health
MSH     Management Sciences for Health
MTR     Mid-term review
NGO     Non-governmental organization
NSP     National Strategic Plan
NTB     National Tender Board
OPCS    World Bank’s Operations Policy and Country Services Vice Presidency
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PADS    Projet d’Appui au Developpement du Systeme Sanitaire
PITA    Plan integer de travail annuel (Annual Integrated Work Plan)
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMI     President’s Malaria Initiative (USAID)

                                       ii
PNDS     GoB’s National Health Sector Development Plan (2009-2018)
PNLP     Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
QALP     World Bank’s Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
RBM      Roll Back Malaria
RDT      Rapid diagnostic test
SIGFiP   Systeme Integre de Gestion des Finances Publiques
SIGL     MoH’s Information System for Logistics Management
SIRP     Systeme d’Information de Routine du Paludisme
SNIGS    Systeme National d’Information et de Gestion Sanitaires
SP       Sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine
TTL      Task team leader
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WHO      World Health Organization




                         Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                       Country Director: Madani Tall
                        Sector Manager: Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
                   Project Team Leader: Ayite-Fily d’Almeida
                      ICR Team Leader: Denise Vaillancourt




                                        iii
                                               BENIN
                                    Malaria Control Support Project


                                                   CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information                                  i
    B. Key Dates                                           i
    C. Ratings Summary…………………………………………………………………………..i
    D. Sector and Theme Codes…………………………………………………………………..ii
    E. Bank Staff………………………………………………………………………………….ii
    F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………………….ii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs             v
    H. Restructuring                                     v
    I. Disbursement Graph                                vi

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 26
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 29
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 30
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 32
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 35
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 41
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 42
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 44
 4Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................... 47
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 49
 Annex 9. Achievements against Project Targets                                                                             51
 Annex 10. List of Persons Met                                                                                             55
 Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 59
 MAP




                                                            iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                            BENIN: Malaria
Country:                Benin                     Project Name:             Control Booster
                                                                            Program
Project ID:             P096482                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H2290
ICR Date:               12/29/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Original Total
                        XDR 21.60M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 21.08M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 21.60M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 RBM Partners

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/03/2005      Effectiveness:             03/16/2007         03/16/2007
                                                                                     04/28/2010
Appraisal:             03/16/2006      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                     08/29/2010
Approval:              06/01/2006      Mid-term Review:           03/16/2009         05/19/2009
                                       Closing:                   02/28/2011         06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory              Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:

                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     15                  15
Health                                                                60                  60
Other social services                                                 25                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          20                  20
Health system performance                                             20                  20
Malaria                                                               40                  40
Population and reproductive health                                    20                  20

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                       Nils O. Tcheyan
Sector Manager:            Jean J. De St Antoine                Alexandre V. Abrantes
Project Team Leader:       Ayite-Fily D'Almeida                 Ayite-Fily D'Almeida
ICR Team Leader:           Denise A. Vaillancourt
ICR Primary Author:        Denise A. Vaillancourt


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project will support the implementation of the national 2006-2010 Malaria Control
Program over the next four years. The success of the Project will be reflected in the
overall increase access to, and utilization of, an effective package of malaria control
interventions to reduce morbidity and mortality from malaria. Specifically, the Project
                                               ii
would contribute to strengthen malaria control capacities to: (a) improve case
management and treatment of malaria so that by year 2010, at least 60% of malaria of < 5
years old cases are treated adequately within 24 hours from onset of fever; and (b)
expand prevention activities so that by 2010 at least 60% children under 5 year old and of
pregnant women sleep under an ITN; and that at least 60% of pregnant women receive a
prophylactic treatment.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

 (a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   % of households with at least one LLIN/ITN
Value                                      An increase of at
                24.5%                                                          74% (SIRP/PNLP,
quantitative or                            least 20% (or at at least 70%
                (DHS 2006)                                                     2011)
Qualitative)                               least 45%)
Date achieved 11/30/2006                   11/09/2006          04/30/2010      04/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Original target exceeded; revised target achieved.
achievement)
                % children < 5 years with fever treated with an effective anti-malarial within 24
Indicator 2 :
                hours from onset of symptoms
                                                                               47% at the
                                                                               community level
Value                                                                          and 95% in health
                25%
quantitative or                            At least 50%        At least 30% centers
                (DHS 2006)
Qualitative)                                                                   (PNLP
                                                                               Performance
                                                                               Review, 2011)
Date achieved 11/30/2006                   11/09/2006          04/30/2010      04/30/2011
Comments
                Original target almost achieved at community level; revised target exceeded at
(incl. %
                community level.
achievement)
                % of children under five who slept under an LLIN/ITN in the night preceding the
Indicator 3 :
                survey
Value
                20%                                                            64%
quantitative or                            At least 50%        At least 60%
                (DHS 2006)                                                     (MIS 2010)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2006                   11/09/2006          04/30/2010      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Original target exceeded; revised target achieved.
achievement)
                % pregnant women who slept under an LLIN/ITN in the night preceding the
Indicator 4 :
                survey
Value           20%                                                            60%
                                           At least 50%        At least 60%
quantitative or (DHS 2006)                                                     (MIS 2010)

                                               iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2006                    11/09/2006         04/30/2010        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Original target exceeded; revised target achieved.
achievement)
                % pregnant women who received two or more doses of SP during the pregnancy
Indicator 5 :
                (IPTp)
Value                                                                            47% (PNLP
quantitative or 3%                          At least 50%                         Performance
Qualitative)                                                                     Review, 2011)
Date achieved 11/30/2006                    11/09/2006                           04/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Original target substantially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Annual number of reported malaria deaths among children under 5
Value
                1 133                                                            767
quantitative or
                (PNLP data)                                                      (PNLP/SIRP data)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        This translates into an 84% drop in the reported malaria deaths in this age group.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Malaria case fatality rate among children under 5 (per 10,000 cases)
Value
                24                                                               14
quantitative or
                (PNLP data)                                                      (PNLP data)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                                                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        This translates into a 42% drop in the case fatality rate for this age group.
achievement)
                Annual number of simple malaria cases in children under 5 reported by health
Indicator 8 :
                facilities
Value
                365,852                                                          482,669
quantitative or
                (SIRP/PNLP)                                                      (SIRP/PNLP)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/14/1006                                                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        An increase of 32%.
achievement)
                Annual number of severe malaria cases in children under 5 reported by health
Indicator 9 :
                facilities
Value
                108,576                                                          76,493
quantitative or
                (SIRP/PNLP)                                                      (SIRP/PNLP
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/14/2006                                                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        A decline of 30%
achievement)

                                                iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                 Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                   approval                       Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                  documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Please refer to the indicators and actual values achieved in Annex 9.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
 1      10/05/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
 2      04/03/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
 3      08/07/2007           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 1.67
 4      01/04/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      10.94
 5      06/30/2008           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               14.31
 6      12/22/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      17.21
 7      06/17/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      20.00
 8      11/10/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      23.69
 9      04/30/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      24.51
 10     12/01/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      24.51
 11     04/05/2011           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      30.59
 12     06/28/2011       Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                      32.95

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Adjustment of outcome
 04/28/2010       N       S       S          24.51   indicators and IDA Grant
                                                     proceeds reallocation
                                                     Extension of IDA Grant Closing
 08/29/2010               S       S          24.51
                                                     Date


                                                 v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design (descriptive, taken from
other docs, not evaluative)
Context at Appraisal (brief country/sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.      At the time of project design, malaria was the leading cause of mortality among children and
morbidity among adults in Benin. Pregnant women and their unborn children were known to be
particularly vulnerable to this disease, which was a major cause of perinatal mortality, low birth
weight and anemia. Benin’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint Staff Assessment
(February 21, 2003) cited incidences of simple malaria in 1999 of: 120 per 1,000 within the general
population; 437 per 1,000 among infants (0-11 months); and 219 per 1,000 among children (1-5
years). Studies and estimates cited in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) put direct malaria
deaths of children under 5 between 10,000 and 20,000 annually, with an additional 5,000 to 6,000
of indirect malaria deaths in this age group.

2.      In 2006 Benin’s health sector consisted of 3 tertiary hospitals, 6 general hospitals, 46
provincial hospitals (26 public and 20 private) and 784 primary health centers (481 public and 303
private). Health system issues included: weak sector management (including inadequate
decentralization and results focus); insufficient resources; distortions in human resource distribution
to the detriment of rural areas; disparities in service provision between geographic regions and
economic groups; and poor quality and limited access to services by the poor. These were being
addressed by a number of reforms, notably: the adoption of a human resource management strategy
(2004); the transfer of funds to health district management teams for operating costs as of the 2004
budget; the launch of marginal budgeting for bottlenecks approach recommended in the 2004
Country Health Status Report; consideration of poverty and performance criteria starting with the
2005 budget exercise, which culminated in increased resources for health districts; and a pro-poor
policy adopted in 2005 to provide free health services for those who could not afford the fees. In
the early years of the new millennium, over one-third of health facility visits were estimated to be
generated by malaria.

3.      In 2000 the Government of Benin (GoB) adopted a national policy on malaria and
developed the first National Strategic Plan (NSP) (2001-2005), with the technical support of the
World Health Organization (WHO) and other partners, and in line with Roll Back Malaria (RBM)
and Abuja objectives. In 2001 a Facilitators Group (Groupe des Facilitateurs), made up of RBM
partners,1 under the overall coordination of WHO, served to support and coordinate RBM efforts.
The first NSP sought to reduce morbidity and mortality from malaria generally in Benin by 50
percent by 2010, with the following specific goals: increase malaria control coordination capacities;
provide adequate access and treatment to at least 80 percent of malaria patients; provide access to
preventive measures such as long-lasting insecticide-treated nets (LLINs) to at least 80 percent of
at-risk populations (pregnant women and children under 5); provide at least 80 percent of pregnant
women with prophylactic treatment; and strengthen M&E for malaria control.

4.     A new national Malaria Strategy for 2006-2010 (in final draft at the time of project design
and subsequently adopted during the first year of implementation) supported essentially the same



1
  This informal advisory group was comprised of technical agencies, multilateral and bilateral donors, NGOs, the private sector, and
research institutes.


                                                                 1
objectives as the first NSP, but with some updates. Recognizing growing resistance to chloroquine
and on WHO’s recommendation, the new strategy aimed to phase out the use of chloroquine and
scale up the use of Artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT), from 50 percent in 2007 to 100
percent in 2009. It also: envisaged the more vigorous distribution and promotion of LLINs;
introduced Pharmo-Vigilence; devoted attention to training of health providers to implement the
new ACT protocols and intermittent preventive treatment for pregnant women (ITPp)
implementation. The estimated cost of implementing this Strategy (US$70 million equivalent) far
exceeded available resources ($1.9 million of GoB budget in 2006, or 2 percent of the total health
allocation; US$4.4 million from the Global Fund for AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFATM); and modest
resources from WHO and UNICEF). The GoB requested World Bank financing through its Africa
Region Malaria Booster Program, which aims to amplify RBM’s impact in the world’s worst-hit
region.2

Box 1: Benin’s Strategic Plan for Malaria Control, 2006-2010
Goal:
Contribute to the improvement of the health status of the population
General Objective:
Between 2001 and 2010 reduce by 50 percent the levels of mortality and morbidity due to malaria between 2001 and
2010
Specific Objectives:
Between 2001 and 2010:
    Ensure the adequate treatment of 80 percent of simple malaria cases in children under five in the home and in the
     community in less than 24 hours after the onset of symptoms
    Ensure the adequate treatment of 80 percent of simple malaria cases presented in health facilities
    Ensure the correct treatment of 80 percent of serious malaria cases in line with the national malaria control policy
    Achieve an 80 percent rate of ITN use by children under five
    Achieve an 80 percent rate of ITN use by pregnant women
    Ensure 80 percent coverage of pregnant women with the intermittent preventive treatment of Sulfadoxine-
     Pyrimethamine
Components:
    Management of the Malaria Control Program and its partnerships in order to Roll Back Malaria
    Treatment of malaria cases in health facilities, at the community level and in households
    Prevention of malaria through the integrated control of vectors and intermittent prevention treatment of pregnant
     women
    Integrated communication, including: behavior change communication, advocacy and social mobilization
    Epidemiological and entomological surveillance and surveillance of the therapeutic efficacy of anti-malaria
     medicines; and monitoring and evaluation of the Malaria Control Program
    Research.
Source: République du Benin, Ministére de la Santé, Direction Nationale de la Protection Sanitaire, PNLP, “Plan de
suivi et d’évaluation du plan stratégique de lutte contre le paludisme au Benin 2006-2010,? décembre 2006.


5.      The Bank’s support was prompted by the recognition of both GoB and the Bank of its
strategic importance, given malaria’s high incidence and negative impact on human and economic
development (CAS Report No. 26054-BEN, July 6, 2003).




2
  The Booster Program translates the World Bank’s Global Strategy and Booster Program into an outcome driven assault on malaria
in Africa. It builds on a revitalized RBM Global Partnership, complementing the efforts of other partners both at national and
regional level. It is planned to last 10 years, including an intensive phase (July 1, 2005 – June 30, 2008), during which the Bank
would contribute to an aggressive effort to scale up and achieve impact. It aimed to increase rapidly the utilization of ITN and IPTp
services to 60 percent among target groups. In the long-term, it aims to contribute to achieving the Abuja targets and the goals
outlined in the RBM Partnership’s Global Strategy: halving malaria-associated mortality between 2001 and 2010 and halving it again
by 2015.


                                                                   2
Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      The Project was to support the implementation of the national 2006-2010 Malaria Control
Program over the next four years. The success of the Project was to be reflected in increased access
to, and utilization of, an effective package of malaria control interventions to reduce morbidity and
mortality from malaria. Specifically, the Project aimed to contribute to the strengthening of malaria
control capacities to: (a) improve case management and treatment of malaria so that by year 2010 at
least 50% of malaria of <5 years old cases would be treated adequately within 24 hours from onset
of fever; and (b) expand prevention activities so that by 2010 at least 60% of children under five
years old and of pregnant women would sleep under an ITN; and that at least 60% of pregnant
women would receive a prophylactic treatment.3 Annex 1 (Results Framework and Monitoring) of
the PAD also specifies other outcomes, which this ICR will assess: strengthened program M&E and
upgraded institutional (PNLP management) capacities.

Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators (and
reasons/justification)

7.      The project development objectives did not change during the life of the project. But
several project targets were revised in April 2010 when the project was 70 percent disbursed. The
revisions were made in light of updated baseline data and progress achieved as of the mid-term
review in 2008. Three targets (on LLIN access and use) were amended to be more ambitious, while
one target (on effective treatment) was revised to a more modest level. Table 1 below provides a
synthesis of the project’s: baseline data (original and updated to reflect the 2006 DHS data); mid-
term progress (2008); and project targets, both original and revised (the latter approved by the Bank
in April 2010). In addition to the changes in baseline and target values, this table points out
discrepancies between the original project targets articulated in the PAD, and those (more modest
targets) articulated in the DGA (Schedule 6. Performance Indicators). The Bank’s documentation
on the project restructuring (notably the changes to target values) acknowledges these discrepancies
in retrospect, noting that the set in the Development Grant Agreement (DGA) were the binding ones.
This evaluation thus bases itself on the targets set in the DGA.




3
  These are the objectives articulated in the PAD (pp ii and 5). The objectives in the DGA are consistent with these objectives, but
more succinctly stated. Above-stated project objectives are also consistent with Annex 1 of the PAD. There is some discrepancy
between the project-specific targets articulated in the PAD and in the DGA, which is discussed/addressed in Section 3 (Assessment
of Outcomes). Key performance indicators for the project are consistent with those for the program, but targets are more modest.


                                                                 3
Table 1: Synthesis of Baseline and Mid-Term Data and of Project Outcome Targets, by Year
and Source
Indicators                     Baseline Data                         MTR           Original and Revised Targets
                               Provisional       Updated              LQAS                PAD DGA Targets
                               Baseline          Baseline            Survey            Targets (2006)
                               Data cited in     DHS                 (2008)             (2006)
                               PAD               (2006)
                               (2004)
% households with at                    32%              24.5%             58%            > 60%           Increase by
least one LLIN/ITN                                                                                             > 20%
                                                                                                             (> 45%)
% children < 5 years with                33%               25%             5.4%           > 60%                > 50%
fever treated with an
effective antimalarial
within 24 hours from
onset of symptoms
% children < 5 years who                 31%               20%           56.3%            > 60%                > 50%
slept under an LLIN/ITN
in the night preceding the
survey
% pregnant women who                     31%               20%           54.8%            > 60%                > 50%
slept under an LLIN/ITN
in the night preceding the
survey
% pregnant women who                     28%                3%             35%            _                    > 50%
received two or more
doses of SP during the
pregnancy (IPTp)

Main Beneficiaries (original and revised; briefly describe the “primary target group? identified in
the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

8.      The primary target populations are clearly defined and captured in the key development
indicators: children under the age of five, and pregnant women. These two groups are known to be
at greatest risk of contracting malaria and suffering from it or dying from it among all those who
contract it. This is in contrast with semi-immune adults, who contract the disease but do not suffer
as much from its impact.4 These two groups are thus targeted both for preventive and treatment
interventions. Other groups and organizations were also expected to benefit from the project. The
general population was expected to benefit from improved knowledge about the cause and
symptoms of malaria and about ways and means of effectively preventing and treating it. Health
service providers and auxiliary staff working throughout Benin’s public health system were
expected to benefit from inputs, training, pedagogical supervision and other materials and supports
to enable them to implement well the range of malaria preventive and treatment interventions.
Local NGOs and radio stations were to be given the opportunity to contract with the health system
(co-signed by the PNLP and the health zone authorities) and implement activities that would



4
  Malaria in pregnancy increases the risk of maternal anemia, stillbirth, spontaneous abortion, low birth weight and neo-natal death.
Mortality is high in young children because they have not yet developed relative immunity against the most severe forms of the
disease. Immunity is developed over years of exposure, and while it does not generate complete protection, it reduces severity of the
disease. For this reason, most malaria deaths in Africa occur in young children.


                                                                 4
expand outreach and promotion activities. Departmental-level (DDS) and health zone staff were
slated to benefit from program management and capacity building support, including: training,
systems strengthening, supervision supports, office furniture and equipment and other operating
costs to enable them to better fulfill their respective coordination and oversight responsibilities.
PNLP staff, as well, stood to benefit from the same types of support aimed at strengthening their
systems and capacities for program coordination and management.

Original Components (as approved)

9.     The following presentation of components is drawn from Schedule 2 of the DGA, for its
brevity and clarity. It is consistent with the more detailed component descriptions in the PAD,
except for the absence of the Vector Management Plan subcomponent of Component 4, which has
been added. Annex 2, which assesses component outputs against original plans, draws on the
component detail in the PAD. Original component costs shown below include contingencies.
Actual costs are derived from GoB final estimates and the Bank’s disbursement data (details in
Annex 1).

10.     Part A: Improving Case Management and Access to Treatment (original estimate:
US$14.7 million or 29 percent of original project cost; actual cost: US$8.1 million or 24 percent
of the final project cost). Improving malaria treatment capacity of the public and private health
sectors and qualified NGOs, through the provision of goods, equipment, technical advisory services,
training, and the provision of malarial drugs including ACT to the public sector health clinics at all
levels and subsidized prepackaged ACT to the private sector and qualified NGOs.

11.     Part B: Scaling Up Prevention Activities (original estimate: US$13.0 million or 45
percent of original project cost; actual cost: US$21.3 million or 65 percent of the final project
cost). Introduction of large-scale community efforts for malaria prevention, through the provision
of training for public and non-public distributors and community mobilizers, the provision of
LLINs to vulnerable target groups, IPTp and SP medication for pregnant women, and the
organization of IEC/BCC campaigns.

12.    Part C: Strengthening of Monitoring and Evaluation Activities (original estimate:
US$1.7 million or 8 percent of original project cost; actual cost: US$0.9 million or 3 percent of
the final project cost). Strengthening of the malaria-related monitoring and evaluation system and
data management at both the central and operational level, through the provision of financial and
technical assistance support, and training, equipment and operational research.

13.     Part D:      Program Management, Capacity Building and Promoting Regional
Cooperation (original estimate: US$1.6 million or 5 percent of original project cost; actual cost:
US$2.7 million or 8 percent of the final project cost).
1. Project Management. Strengthening of the management capacity of the PNLP, through the
    contracting of additional specialized staff and for operating costs of the PNLP Unit and the
    provision of equipment and rehabilitation works related to the execution of the program.
2. Capacity Strengthening. Strengthening of the capacity and expertise of the PNLP staff, MoH
    and qualified NGOs, through the provision of specified training.
3. Regional Cooperation and Knowledge Sharing. Promotion of regional cooperation and
    knowledge management regarding malaria prevention, monitoring and control activities through
    technical assistance, learning seminars and financial support to the MoH for inter-regional
    communication, including travel and communication expenses.

                                                  5
4. Implementation of the vector/pest management plan prepared by PNLP and disclosed in
   February 2006. Support to PNLP’s Vector Management & Social Marketing Unit efforts to
   integrate vector management into partnership agreements with health facilities, NGOs and the
   private sectors benefitting from Government financing.

Revised Components

14.    Project components were not substantially revised.

Other Significant Changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations)

15.    There were no other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier
operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigation identified, and adequacy of
participatory processes, as applicable)

16.     A July 2010 QALP Assessment rated quality at entry as “satisfactory? on all points:
strategic relevance; realism of design and risk assessment; and fiduciary, safeguards and GAC
aspects. The following findings of this ICR corroborate the QALP assessment.

17.     Soundness of Background Analysis. Background analysis undertaken during project
preparation was sound. The project was grounded in extensive country analysis, undertaken by the
GoB and its malaria partners, led by WHO. Analysis drew on information and studies examining
operational, medical, institutional aspects as well as a review of Benin’s experience in
implementing RBM over the previous several years. An evaluation of progress and constraints in
delivering an effective anti-malarial package, undertaken in March 2003, was an important source.
Analysis drew heavily on the knowledge and expertise of WHO and the RBM partnership, which
undertook multiple missions to this end over the two years leading to project design. This work
also drew on the Africa-wide analysis of the burden of malaria and the shortcomings of national
programs and their partners’ support, undertaken in the context of preparing the Africa Region’s
Malaria Booster program. Interventions were thus based on best available and respected scientific
evidence of efficacy and technical advice.

18.     Analysis of lessons was thorough, encompassing the global experience in malaria control,
and the Bank’s experience in Benin, spanning its whole portfolio and its health sector-specific
portfolio, including both health systems and disease-specific interventions. Most notable among the
many lessons distilled and incorporated into project design are: the importance of decentralized
efforts and community involvement; strong investment in M&E; the use and further strengthening
of the health system in the context of fighting a single disease; and the importance of simplicity of
partnership arrangements with NGOs and community-based organizations.

19.     The rationale for the Bank’s involvement was to complement technical and financial support
provided by other partners, in line with its comparative advantage. This included: building on
health sector budget support and dialogue through PRSCs I and II; the ability to commit to a multi-
year effort; program-specific capacity building experience and expertise in the context of a health

                                                  6
systems approach; and the ability to bring cross-disease, cross-sectoral experience and lessons to
the approach.

20.     Assessment of Project Design. The project was well designed, with appropriate objectives
and indicators and a results framework that established clear links from activities (or components)
to outcomes. (See Section 3 presenting relevance of design analysis for more detail.)
Responsibility for project coordination and management was placed in the PNLP. Instead of
establishing a separate PIU, the PNLP staff was to be supplemented by a procurement expert and a
financial management expert to ensure respect of the Bank’s fiduciary exigencies. This encouraged
the utilization and further strengthening of the PNLP staff at all levels of the health system,
including those in the Departments and zones. PNLP was assessed and considered to have adequate
staff capacity to undertake the managerial and technical aspects of project implementation, with the
support and backstopping of the Bank. Terms of reference for fiduciary staff were submitted to
IDA for non-objection prior to effectiveness, along with a procurement plan for the first 18 months
of implementation. The contracting of NGOs to work at the community level was essential to the
behavior change objectives and the expected uptake of prevention and treatment interventions.
Draft contract agreements for NGOs were submitted to IDA prior to effectiveness, and about 30
health NGOs, pre-qualified under GFATM financing, were slated to scale-up their activities with
project support. Working contracting processes and arrangements, employed by GFATM, were
adopted by the project. While there were no co-financiers, the design and implementation enjoyed
the inputs and excellent collaboration and coordination of all RBM partners, under the leadership of
WHO.

21.     Adequacy of Government Commitment. Government commitment was high at the time
of project preparation and even before. Relevant policies and strategies were in place. Ownership
and budget support of the malaria control program had been strong since 2000, with malaria
prominently featured in the PRSP. The Head of State, himself, was interested in scaling up malaria
efforts in Benin, with GoB ultimately deciding to utilize the remaining funds under Benin’s IDA
allocation for the malaria project. Thanks to the participatory process used to develop the 2006-
2010 Malaria Strategy, which the project was designed to support, ownership among a broad range
of stakeholders was strong.

22.     Risk Assessment and Mitigation. The overall risk rating was high, reflecting a very
candid and realistic assessment of project risks, including: slow/stalled implementation due to
capacity constraints and/or change in Government, unavailability of LLINs on the world market,
failure to reach priority groups, inability to bring about behavior change, inadequate priority to
M&E and use of data for decision-making, and issues of governance and corruption. Mitigation
measures were appropriate, including: the (continued) mobilization of technical and financial
support from the RBM partnership; the assessment and support of commodity procurement and
distribution capacity; well-designed IEC/BCC activities delivered by NGOs; regular, rigorous, joint
reviews of program performance, based on simple reporting requirements; and audits/spotchecks of
the proper accounting of funds and goods acquired under the project.

Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk
status, and actions taken, as applicable)

23.    The project became effective on March 16, 2007, after a slight delay due to the need for
GoB to produce a legal opinion on the Grant Agreement acceptable to IDA. There were some
delays in implementation, due to slow processing of priority bidding documents and weakness in
the coordination and management of the project. But these were managed and mitigated with close
                                               7
Bank guidance and supervision. By the time of the mid-term review, which took place in May 2009,
two sets of data were available that warranted amendments to some of the project’s outcome
targets: (a) final data from the DHS 2006 revealed lower baseline values than the best estimates
available at the time of project approval; and (b) the 2008 LQAS survey showed that progress on
three outcome indicators already exceeded end-of-project targets, 5 progress on another 6 was on
track, and progress on the other7 was very modest. Targets were thus adjusted accordingly, the first
three being adjusted upwards, and the last one being reduced. It is important to note that both the
original and revised (DHS 2006) baselines for effective treatment of children under five included
the use of chloroquine, which was considered as an effective treatment in these data sources, while
the (mid-term) LQAS survey and the target excluded the use of chloroquine from their definitions
of an effective treatment, as the project was supporting GoB policy, endorsed by RBM, to phase out
the use of chloroquine and phase in the use of ACTs.

24.     Overall implementation was satisfactory, although there were delays in some activities, such
as training. In light of the new data and of the MTR conclusions that found the project to be in full
compliance with all legal covenants, social and environmental safeguard requirements and financial
management exigencies, the project was restructured in 2010, in response to a request of GoB
submitted to the Bank on April 9, 2010. The main elements of the restructuring were: (1) the
adjustments to the outcome targets, as itemized in Table 1; (2) the reallocation of the proceeds of
the project to reflect actual disbursements and projections for the use of the balance of project
funds; and (3) the extension of the original closing date (February 28, 2011) to June 30, 2011 to
accommodate an action plan proposed by the PNLP. The action plan included: activities linked to
(a) the national mass campaign distribution of LLINs; (b) household and health facilities surveys to
document end-of-project results; (c) research to assess the use of LLINs and ACTs; and (iv) the
audit of project accounts. This restructuring did not warrant Board approval and thus was approved
by the Vice President of the Africa Region.

25.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation. During two of the four years of project
implementation (2009 and 2010), successive strikes of health staff (at all levels of the health
pyramid) constituted an important impediment to project implementation at the level of the health
zones. During these years, commodities for prevention and treatment interventions were in place,
staff had been trained and communities had been informed and motivated to access preventive and
treatment interventions. But when health staff were on strike, those seeking bednets through
regular vaccination and ANC services and those seeking treatment could not access these services
when staff were absent. Strikes were outside of Government or implementing agencies’ control.

26.     Slow approvals of procurement documents submitted to the Direction Nationale des
Marches Publics caused serious delays in the acquisition of goods and in disbursements. Delays
averaged two months, but in certain cases went up to three months, even though the GoB standards
call for approval within 15 days. Likewise, delays in signatures of contracts by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MoEF) averaged two months, and went up as high as five months,
notwithstanding the 15-day turnaround requirement. There were also delays in the commitment of


5
 % of households with at least 1 LLIN; % of children under 5 who slept under a LLIN/ITN during the night preceeding the survey;
and % pregnant women who slept under a LLIN during the night preceding the survey.

6
    % pregnant women who received two or more doses of SP during the pregnancy (IPTp)

7
    % children with a fever treated with an effective antimalarial within 24 hour from the onset of symptoms


                                                                    8
procurements in MoEF’s Systéme Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques (SIGFiP), caused by
insufficient credit given to the project in the national budget, despite the estimates prepared and
submitted to MoEF. Compliance with Government counterpart financing obligations under the
project had a favorable impact on implementation. All of these factors were subject to Government
control.

27.     Within the control of the Implementing Agency (Ministry of Health/PNLP) were the changes
in Project Coordinators. There were four Coordinators during the four-year implementation period.
In 2008 during a time of ministerial changes and inadequate project performance, the outgoing
coordinator was duly replaced by the Ministry with a person who had the required skills and
expertise, in response to the Bank’s demands. While delays in the training of health staff on the
new policy and protocols for treatment and prevention interventions might initially be considered as
being within MoH/PNLP’s control, these delays were linked to the availability of initial stocks of
critical inputs, held up by above-noted procurement delays. Very favorable to good project
implementation were the semi-annual reviews of program (and project) performance organized by
PNLP and attended by MoH Cabinet, relevant Divisions in MoH, the Bank’s team and other RBM
partners, and other national partners and institutions involved, which fostered a shared vision, good
coordination and productive partnerships. Also favorable to project implementation were the
strong links with communities, especially through NGOs and community-based malaria volunteers,
which provided enhanced synergies between supply- and demand-side activities. As noted below,
strong M&E also favorably influenced implementation.

28.    During 2008 political changes (new minister) and turnover of project coordinator posed
problems with lack of decisions and poor decisions. This has been the only period of serious
concern during implementation.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.     Design. The design of M&E was strong. A full component was developed to ensure that it
was given sufficient attention and support. (See the description of Component 3 for details of
planned support.) Support emphasized: capacity building; the development of an M&E framework
for the 2006-2010 Strategic Plan for Malaria; the refinement of the system and indicators and their
integration into the sector-wide system for data collection and management (SNIGS); the use of data
for priority setting, identification and resolution of implementation bottlenecks and strategic
decision-making, by staff at all levels of the health system. Support also envisaged the
collaboration, coordination and complementarity of the Bank’s Malaria Implementation Resource
Team (MIRT), RBM’s Monitoring and Evaluation Research Group (MERG) and WHO in
providing technical assistance and backstopping to PNLP to this end.

30.    Implementation. M&E was implemented, as designed. An M&E framework was
developed. Indicators were refined to better track program performance and outcome; and these
were integrated into the SNIGS. A number of studies and surveys were implemented and capacity
was built at all levels of the system. Section 3 (paragraphs 61-64) of this report and Annex 2 (on
outputs) provide more detail on the implementation of M&E.

31.    Utilization. There was interest in using results emanating from the different evaluations
throughout the project’s life, at operational and strategic levels, alike.
At the operational level, the 2008 LQAS results pointed to health zones that were not performing
well on key project indicators, covering both prevention and treatment interventions. These health
zones were targeted for corrective action. They prepared action plans targeted at improvements on
                                                    9
key indicators, which were supported by project financing for their implementation. Monitoring
and support of all Departments and zones were especially meaningful in the context of
performance-based contracts signed under the project and linked to targets and indicators. At the
strategic level, the different evaluations proved to be very useful for strategic decision making. For
example, the results of the evaluation of vector resistance to insecticides influenced the choice of
insecticides for the treatment of bednets utilized in Benin. Moreover, tests on the sensitivity of
parasites to anti-malarial drugs made possible the development of strategies aimed at slowing
parasite resistance. Of note is the isbu forbidding the use of monotherapies in Benin. The DHS
2006 and LQAS also influenced the resetting of (mostly) more ambitious and better informed
targets. Annual reviews of program performance and the health facilities survey pointed to
weaknesses in service quality, which were subsequently targeted. Performance-based contracts
with NGOs were seriously implemented and linked to project indicators, with a small number of
contracts not being renewed, based on unsatisfactory performance.

Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

32.     Safeguards. The project was appropriately classified as Category B and triggered
OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.09 (Pest Management) due to the large
amount of pests and pesticides that would be handled as part of the project. A Medical Waste
Management Plan and a Vector/Pest Management Plan were prepared and disseminated. During
project implementation there were some delays in compliance, due to low institutional capacity and
weak cooperation among involved institutions. These delays were reflected in ISRs, which
downgraded safeguards compliance in two of 12 ISRs prepared on the project. Close supervision by
the Bank supervision ultimately ensured satisfactory implementation of the medical waste and
vector/pest management plans. Activities were undertaken to support the identification and
destruction of larvae breeding areas through a participatory approach, involving MoH, the
community and Cotonou’s municipality actors. A system was also developed and implemented to
properly dispose of discarded plastic wrappings for the LLINs, which were potentially hazardous to
the population. The ICR mission saw evidence of this system during its field visits.

33.      Procurement. Capacity assessments during design pointed to the inexperience of the
procurement unit of MoH (CPMP), and the long experience of the Centrale d’Achat des
Médicaments Essentiels et Consommables Médicaux (CAME) in the procurement of medicines and
medical supplies. The design envisaged the hiring of a contractual procurement specialist to work
with CPMP and the delegation of about 70 percent of the procurement to CAME. WHO was also
envisaged to be heavily involved, especially for the procurement of the drug Coartem and the
provision of technical advice and assistance. The Operational Manual was to clarify roles and
responsibilities and procurement procedures. Also envisaged to mitigate procurement risks: (i) low
thresholds of Bank prior review for all major packages under the project, (ii) at least two
procurement missions (four in the first year) and (iii) one procurement audit per year. In addition,
corruption clauses, including penalties, were included in all bid documents to be used by CPMP and
CAME. Publishing of a procurement plan, bid evaluations and contract awards was made mandatory
for all agencies.

34.      Already noted slow and inefficient review and clearance procedures of the National Tender
Board (NTB) and the delays in MoEF signature of contracts undermined the timely availability of
critical project inputs, most notably, ACTs and LLINs. Even without the delays caused by the NTB
and MoEF, procurement performance was not optimal in the early years of the project. There was
some confusion about roles and responsibilities of CPMP, PNLP/procurement staff, and the CAME.
The arrival of a new coordinator in mid-2008 marked the start of efforts to address procurement
                                                 10
issues and culminated in a substantial improvement in performance, thanks to a number of
strengthening measures: procurement training for two staff of CPMP and one of CAME; extension
of the contract of an additional procurement specialist; strengthening of CAME capacity for safe
storage of pharmaceutical products; and a clarification of roles and responsibilities, especially
between CAME and PNLP, and including a closer collaboration between PNLP and CPMP.

35.      The initial recruitment of some 30 prequalified NGOs to work at the community level (one
per zone) was delayed from early 2007 to December 2007. Two aspects of this particular
procurement were improved in light of project experience. First, the initial process was modeled
after the GFATM process, which was undertaken at the central level. This caused health zones to
feel little ownership of NGOs’ activities. In certain cases NGOs were not readily accepted by the
communities they were serving, as they were not involved in the selection process. And the NGOs
did not have a strong sense of accountability to the health zone. The next round of contracting was
undertaken with the full involvement of the local level (health authorities, local authorities, civil
society) and the contracts were signed by the PNLP coordinator and the executive directors of these
NGOs. But activity reporting of these structures was subject to the review of the health zones before
their transmission to the DDS and PNLP. These measures served to incorporate the lessons of the
first round. Second, selection criteria were revised to be more rigorous and more responsive to the
need; and more rigor was applied in the selection of NGOs. Evidence of this rigor is demonstrated
in the fact that contracts of a few low-performing NGOs in the first round of contracts were not
renewed for the next round.

36.      Financial Management. Fulfilled effectiveness conditions successfully set up financial
management arrangements within PNLP. Financial management was well implemented initially,
but gradually deteriorated by June 2008 (at which time the task team rated it MU), due to the under-
utilization of accounting software and the failure to update accounting entries resulting in
substantial delays in the submission of financial monitoring reports. Also at this point in time,
control of operating expenditures was found to be weak, as evidenced in the anomalies in travel and
training expenses, detected by financial management supervision missions. Vigorous intervention
of the task team and effective implementation by PNLP of the team’s recommendations, including
the recruitment of a second accountant, corrected these weaknesses. By the time of the 2009 MTR
financial management performance was found to be fully satisfactory. There were no overdue
audits, no qualified issues or accountability issues raised in audit reports. This satisfactory
performance continued through the rest of the life of the project.

Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-completion
operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements,
sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable).

37.      The project was designed to support GoB’s malaria NSP 2006-2010. During the ICR
mission, a new NSP (2011-2015) was approved by GoB and strongly endorsed by the President of
the Republic, who considers malaria a priority. The new strategy builds on the experience and
lessons of the previous ones, and introduces a few refinements: to extend coverage of treatment and
prevention interventions to all of Benin’s population; and to ensure more routine testing in health
facilities to confirm malaria diagnosis before dispensing ACT. The adequacy of budget provision is
in question, given that MoH’s overall budget allocation has declined. With the good coordination
and substantial support of Benin’s malaria partners, there is likely to been continued support to the
provision of essential inputs (nets, drugs, tests), and to other aspects of the program, including
continued support to M&E and research. PNLP’s ongoing efforts to map needs and the
interventions of all partners should be useful to this end. The staffing and management of PNLP
                                                  11
appears to be adequate to implement the new five-year strategy, although it will need to be
accompanied and supported. This will be especially important (a) at the decentralized levels of
MoH (Departments and health zones); and (b) in light of possible consolidation and streamlining of
some PNLP functions into already existing MoH structures. All goods acquired under the project
have been audited and are accounted for. Their adequate operation and maintenance will depend on
overall capacity of the health system to this end.

38.     In response to overwhelming interests (expressed by policy-makers, implementers, RBM
partners, and beneficiaries) in continued Bank support, a supplemental grant for malaria in the
amount of US$10 million is being processed under the ongoing Benin Health System Performance
project. In addition, a follow-on Malaria Booster operation is being developed to continue critical
support in the Bank’s area of comparative advantage (especially strategic program management
capacity building, and health systems strengthening). (See also section on Risk to Development
Outcome.)




                                                12
3. Assessment of Outcomes

Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global priorities, and
Bank Assistance Strategy)

Relevance of Objectives and Design: High

39.     The project is highly relevant to the country’s development objectives, global priorities and
the Bank’s Assistance Strategy. With regard to the country’s development objectives, the GoB has
recently articulated its development priorities and objectives in its new (March 2011) Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper. Two of the six pillars are of relevance to this project’s development
objectives: Strengthening of Human Capital; and Improving the Quality of Governance. In the
context of the first of these two pillars, GoB aims to improve the accessibility and quality of health
services, highlighting the importance of making headway on three MDGs, all addressed in this
project: under-five mortality rate; maternal mortality; and combating malaria, HIV/AIDS and
tuberculosis. Malaria-specific interventions include: prevention, case management, behavior
change communication, epidemiological and entomological surveillance and research. GoB’s 10-
year National Health Sector Development Plan (PNDS 2009-2018) recognizes malaria as the main
cause of child mortality and adult morbidity and calls for concerted action to combat this disease as
a priority. The project was conceived to support the objectives of Benin’s second five-year malaria
NSP (2006-2010), which, itself, supports the PNDS. The recently approved (September 2011) third
five-year malaria NSP (2011-2015) supports the same objectives and is made up of the same
components or interventions as the second plan, but with some refinements: (a) coverage will move
beyond vulnerable target groups to cover the entire population; (b) private sector coverage and
involvement will be more vigorously pursued; and (c) pharmaco-vigilence will also receive more
attention.

40.    Malaria is a global priority. RBM was formed to address malaria in recognition of (i) the
high burden of disease it creates in Africa and in other regions of the world; and (ii) under-
exploited opportunities to address it, given the proven technologies for its prevention and treatment.

41.     The project is highly relevant to the Bank’s priorities and development objectives. Its
Health, Nutrition and Population strategy aims to support to countries’ efforts to control priority
diseases (malaria cited specifically) through health systems strengthening and a strong results focus.
The Bank established the Malaria Booster Program to further stimulate its active involvement in
RBM and to “boost? malaria efforts in Africa. Two of the three strategic objectives of the Bank’s
current Country Assistance Strategy (January 30, 2009) are relevant to this project: Improving
Access to Basic Services (with specific reference to malaria control); and Promoting Better
Governance and Strengthening Institutional Capacities (including decentralization and community
development). Key performance indicators and milestones for measuring CAS success are drawn
directly from GoB’s malaria NSP (both the second and the current ones), which are also reflected in
the project, focusing on access and coverage of key malaria interventions: LLIN utilization; case
management/treatment; prophylactic treatment for pregnant women; essential malaria inputs; and
capacity building.

Relevance of Design

42.    The design is highly relevant from a number of perspectives. First, the choice of
interventions is highly appropriate, providing a sound, technically appropriate balance between case
management/treatment and prevention. Case management/treatment interventions were designed to
                                                  13
reflect and support MoH’s new policy, grounded in WHO recommendations, to treat malaria cases
with ACT (and to phase out chloroquine as a treatment option) and to test patients with malaria
symptoms before treating them. Prevention interventions also support WHO recommendations and
protocols, focusing on increasing the use of LLINs by two vulnerable groups (under fives and
pregnant women) and on IPTp for pregnant women through mass distribution campaigns as well as
routine services (vaccination and ANC). IEC, BCC and other ways and means of community
outreach and involvement included in the project are also critical to the achievement of targets and
objectives. The decision not to launch immediately under this project indoor residual spraying (IRS),
larvae breeding control and other hygiene and sanitation initiatives, was a sound one. It shows
appropriate selectivity of well-established results-oriented interventions that are already ambitious
and within the mandate of MoH/PNLP to implement. Spraying, hygiene and sanitation activities
were being piloted and supported by others and are known to be very complicated (involving
multiple sectors and actors) and expensive (requiring frequent repeating of actions).


43.     Second, the project (and the NSP it was supporting) was articulated around a well-
established results chain (and appropriate indicators) that documented inputs (nets, drugs, tests,
other critical supplies and equipment), outputs (persons trained, supervision protocols produced,
radio messages diffused…), processes (regular planning, monitoring and evaluation,
supervisions…), outcomes (access/use of preventive and treatment services) and impacts (trends in
malaria mortality and morbidity) and the plausible links in the chain. These are well captured in the
PAD’s results framework and in GoB’s M&E plan and strategy and are reflective of RBM and
WHO logframes for malaria. Third, a strong M&E component helps maintain a results focus and
builds capacity for strategic management of the program, including the finetuning of interventions
and strategies as experience unfolds. (See also paras. 29-31 on M&E design, implementation, and
use.)

44.     Fourth, the institutional and implementation arrangements were based on two sound
principles: (1) the placement of project management responsibility within the structure responsible
for the program; and (2) the full use of the health system and its various actors for project
implementation, rather than employing a more “vertical? approach. Instead of establishing a project
management unit, PNLP was given overall responsibility for project management, supplemented
only by a few specialized staff (procurement and financial management specialists and support
staff). Component 4 supported PNLP capacity strengthening to this end, which extended to the
DDS (which have malaria units) and to the health zones. The full use of health system actors
emphasized that malaria control was to be acknowledged as the responsibility of the entire health
system. In addition to PNLP, other MoH departments and entities were involved: DNSP, DPP,
CAME and CPMP. Likewise the DDS were mobilized and made responsible beyond the specific
technical responsibilities of their malaria units. At the operational and community levels, over and
above the health zone actors, NGOs, local radio stations, community health workers and other
community and local organizations and officials were also involved. Partnerships between the three
levels of MoH (central level, six DDS, and 34 health zones), and between MoH and NGOs/radio
stations, were established through performance-based contracts, which helped clarify roles and
responsibilities, and kept a strong results focus, given that their bottom lines were about delivering
on targets and indicators. (More detail on the contracts with NGOs in the procurement section).

45.    Fifth, the project nurtured and supported strong partnerships with other development
partners supporting Benin’s malaria efforts. This was particularly evident in the M&E efforts,
which coordinated the technical and financial support of all partners, in an effort to ensure one
M&E framework and system – the Government’s – that all partners would rely upon. It was also
                                              14
reflected in a covenant in the legal agreement that called for joint annual malaria reviews conducted
with donor partners and stakeholders along with an integrated budgeted plan for the following year,
in light of accomplishments, challenges, and available technical and financial support.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including brief discussion of causal linkages
between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 4)
Rating: Substantial

46.     This section assesses outcomes against project targets and objectives – both original and
revised – and then highlights project outputs and inputs that contributed to those outcomes.
Summarized here, outputs and inputs are presented in more detail and assessed against original
plans in Annex 2. Annex 9 provides a tally of achievements against project targets. This section
also provides some indication of other donor support to project objectives, which are also program
objectives. Partner coordination is strong and program outcomes noted here are attributable to the
partnership, and not just to the Bank’s support. Nevertheless, the Bank’s contribution and value-
added is assessed. This section concludes with trends on malaria mortality, exploring plausible
attribution to project and program efforts. In accordance with ICR guidelines, the analysis of
efficacy involved the assessment of performance against original targets and revised targets (found
to be substantial in both cases), weighted by the amount of the grant disbursed at the time targets
were revised. Table 2 captures this analysis.

Table 2: Analysis of Efficacy in Light of Changes in Targets: Three Weighting Scenarios
  Objectives        Performance       Performance           Overall           Weighted      Performance     Objectives     Performance
     (1)             vs. Original      vs. Revised       Performance         Importance/    Weighted by    Weighted by     Weighted by
                       Targets           Targets         Weighted by          Relevance    Disbursements     Share of     Disbursements
                       (70% of           (30% of         Disbursement             of       and Relevance      Actual       and Share of
                   disbursements)       isbursemen            (4)             Objective          (6)       Expenditures       Actual
                          (2)                t)           [(2) + (3)]            (5)         [(4) x (5)]       (7)        Expenditures
                                            (3)                                                                                 (8)
                                                                                                                            [(4) x (7)]
Improve case       Substantial (3)    High (4) x         Substantial
management         x 70%              30%
and treatment of
malaria for
children under 5                2.1               1.2                  3.3          40%              1.3           25%              0.8
Expand             High (4) x 70%     Substantial (3)    High
prevention                            x 30%
activities for
children under 5
and pregnant
women                           2.8                0.9                 3.7          40%              1.5           64%              2.4
Strengthen         Substantial (3)    Target not         Substantial
PNLP capacities    x 100%             revised
in program
management,
including M&E                   3.0                 0               3.0             20%              0.6           11%              0.3
Total                                                              10.0            100%              3.4          100%              3.5
Overall Efficacy                3.3                3.3              3.3                              3.4                            3.5
Rating
Note: The following values were assigned to efficacy ratings for the purposes of this analysis: High: 4; Substantial: 3;
Modest: 2; and Negligible: 1.

Improved Case Management and Treatment of Malaria

Outcome #:1 Improved coverage of treatment of Children under five
Susbstantial achievement of original target; high achievement of revised target

47.    The project was largely successful in improving case management and treatment of malaria.
It supported implementation of GoB’s new policy of phasing out chloroquine because of its
                                               15
increasing inefficacy and phasing in the use of ACTs for the treatment of malaria. The project
achieved its objective of increasing the proportion of children under five with a fever that are
treated with an effective anti-malarial within 24 hours from the onset of symptoms. By the
project’s end, the proportion of children presenting themselves at the community level with fever
and receiving effective treatment was 47 percent,8 exceeding the revised (April 2010) target of 30
percent, and almost achieving the original target of 50 percent. The proportion of children
presenting themselves at health centers with fever and receiving effective treatment was 95
percent.9 It should be pointed out that the baseline provided in DHS 2006 (25%) is misleading for
the purposes of this evaluation. In 2006 chloroquine was considered to be an effective treatment.
But under MoH’s new policy and strategy, and as envisioned in the project, effective treatment is
defined as ACT. It is more accurate then to define the baseline as 0, as ACT had not been
introduced before the start of the project.            A Health Facility Survey conducted in
November/December 2009 raised some issues of service quality. While it was conducted only one
year after inputs and training were provided, and a year and a half before the project’s end – and
therefore cannot be taken as end-of-project status – it is worth noting, even though improvements
may have been made in the meantime. Adherence to national policy on prescription of anti-
malarials was 88 percent.10 This Survey also documented some shortcomings in testing. Less than
half (41%) of health centers were able to perform malaria testing by microscopy or rapid
diagnostics test (RDT), but all hospitals could perform testing. Adherence to the national policy on
testing (confirming diagnosis before treating) was 53 percent (all patients), 25 percent (children
under five) and 70 percent (over five). Policy and training on testing were found to be somewhat
ambiguous, especially for children under five. Confirmation of diagnosis using RDTs at the
community level is currently not required.

48.     Project Outputs. Substantial numbers of public health workers were trained in improved
case management, covering the new malaria policy, the proper and routine diagnosis, and the
correct utilization of ACTs. In total, some 10,000 health workers received this training. Specifics
included: 85 Level A lab technicians (vs. 90 planned); 90 Level B lab technicians (vs. 140 planned);
1,997 health providers (doctors, nurses, midwives) in referral hospitals (considerably more than the
275 planned); 166 doctors at the health zone level (less than 430 planned); 2,526 health workers (of
a total of 3,373), exceeding the 2,363 target; and 3,581 (of a total of 3,682) non qualified health
workers, exceeding the 1,781 target. Most of this training occurred in 2008 and 2009, and was
followed up by regular, semi-annual supervision by central PNLP to the DDS level. Supervisions
by the DDS to the health zones, by the health zones to the health centers, and by health centers to
the community level were carried out less regularly than planned. Training guides, materials and
supervision protocols were developed to support these activities. While the project (and other
donor financing) provided substantial supplies of essential inputs, the Health Facility Survey (2009)
documented that 33 percent of health centers had stockouts of ACTs for at least three days.



8
  PNLP Performance Review, April 2011. The 2010 MIS documented a coverage of 25 percent. The difference between these two
levels is due to two factors. First, the MIS exercise was carried out during a period of severe nationwide flooding at a time where
many communities already benefiting from community-based treatment interventions were inaccessible (both to survey staff as well
as to some community health workers). Second, after the MIS exercise, in December 2010, community-based treatment was
extended to numerous other communities with the support of Africare.

9
    Ibid.

10
  Nearly all patients who tested positive were given an antimalarial. However, 22 percent of those testing negative were given an
antimalarial.


                                                               16
According to the PNLP Performance Review Report (April 2011), 88 percent of health facilities
reported no ruptures in ACTs of more than one week, during the previous three months, and 79
percent reported no ruptures in RDTs of more than one week, during the previous three months.
Training of private sector was not carried out, as this sector was supported in part by other partners.

49.     Project Inputs. Over the four-year implementation period the project acquired and
distributed a total of 25.3 million ACT treatments. These drugs were first made available in mid-
2008 to all public health facilities in all 34 health zones and all 12 departments in the country
through CAME and its three regional depots. The project also procured rapid diagnosis tests
(RDTs) for all health facilities and microscopes and related laboratory supplies and materials to 9
health facilities (National University Hospital, three zonal hospitals and five health centers) and to
the PNLP. Additionally, the project provided in 2009 64,244 A Kits and 49,799 B kits for the
management of serious malaria cases in children under the age of 5.

50.     Other Donor Support. While the Bank was the first to supply Benin with ACTs, other
donors also provided substantial amounts of ACTs, most notably: USAID/PMI, GFTAM, and (to a
lesser extent) UNICEF. GoB also financed modest amounts. In addition, USAID/PMI provided
substantial systems support and capacity building to CAME and to MoH/PNLP at all levels of the
system to strengthen the management of inputs, stocking and distribution. Since the health facilities
survey, several changes have been made to the drug supply chain management system. A
commodity logistics system was designed and a computerized tool for commodities/logistics data
management is used in 29/34 health zones (May 2011). The Central Medical stores (CAME)
elected and trained a new board of directors and signed a new convention with PMI support. With
PMI TA, software was installed and calibrated in central and regional warehouses. Still the
availability of key commodities (antimalarials and diagnostic testing supplies) should be monitored
and stock-outs should be eliminated. Some donors, especially GFATM, also supported the
establishment, training and backstopping of community malaria workers (relais communautaires),
who played a key role in treating malaria cases at the community level and promoting prevention
knowledge and behavior change. Other partners, notably the Bank and UNICEF, supported relais
communautaires, but only on the prevention/promotion front.

Outcome #2: Improved Protection of Pregnant Women against Malaria
Substantial achievement of original (unchanged) target

51.     The project substantially achieved its objective of improving the protection of pregnant
women against malaria. From a baseline of 3 percent (2006 DHS), 47 percent of pregnant women
received two or more doses of IPTp (PNLP Performance Review, April 2011), closely approaching
the target of 50 percent. The 2010 MIS (which records an overall level of 46 percent) documents
important discrepancies across departments, however. Zou-Collines had the highest level of IPT
coverage (61 percent) and Atacora and Donga had the lowest level (31 percent). Additionally, there
is a gap of 10 percentage points between urban and rural areas (52 and 42 percent, respectively).
But the gap between the richest and poorest quintiles is small (51 and 46, percent respectively).
The Health Facility Survey (November/December 2009) documented that 54 percent of eligible
pregnant women were given SP. Of the 94 pregnant women not eligible, 81 percent were not given
the drug. This translates into an overall adherence to national policy on IPTp of 66 percent.

52.    Project Outputs. Doctors, midwives and nurses (itemized in the previous outputs
paragraph) were trained in the IPTp policy and how to implement it. As is noted previously, PNLP
supervision of DDS was regular (and included this aspect of service delivery), but other
supervisions (DDS to zones, zones to health centers, and health centers to community level) were
                                                17
less regular. Ninety percent of health facilities reported no ruptures in SP stocks that exceeded one
week, during the previous three months (PNLP Performance Review, April 2011).

53.    Project Inputs. The Bank procured 593,400 doses of Sulfadoxine/Pyrimethamine (SP) in
support of this activity, or 74 percent of the 800,000 doses initially planned.

54.   Other Donors. PMI provided an additional 1.1 million units of SP during the period 2008-
2010.

Outcome #3: Improved Bednet Access and Use by Target Groups
High achievement of original targets; substantial achievement of revised targets

55.     The use of LLINs by the two target groups increased substantially during the life of the
project, with targets fully achieved. The proportion of children under 5 who slept under a LLIN in
the night preceding the survey increased from a baseline of 20 percent (2006 DHS) to a level of 64
percent in 2010 (MIS, 2010). This level exceeded the original target of 50 percent and fully
achieved the adjusted target of 60 percent (adjusted in light of the MTR level of achievement: 56
percent).

56.     Likewise, the proportion of pregnant women who slept under a LLIN in the night preceding
the survey increased from a baseline of 20 percent (2006 DHS) to a level of 60 percent in 2010
(MIS 2010). This level also exceeded the original target of 50 percent and fully achieved the
adjusted target of 60 percent (adjusted in light of the MTR level of achievement: 55 percent).
However, the MIS does document disparities in achievements across departments. Zou-Collines
achieved the highest levels of bednet use: 80 percent of children under five; and 70 percent of
pregnant women, while Oueme/Plateau registered the lowest levels of 54 and 41 percent,
respectively. 11 Notwithstanding these variations across departments, urban rural differences in
LLIN use (69 vs. 62 percent for children under five; and 64 vs. 57 for pregnant women) and
differences between highest and lowest wealth quintiles (75 vs. 64 percent for children under five;
and 68 vs. 57 percent for pregnant women) were smaller than those documented in the 2006 DHS,
indicating improvements in equity.12

57.     Project Outputs. The percentage of households possessing at least one LLIN was
documented at 40 percent in 2010 (MIS, 2010), but increased to 74 percent when it was measured
again, after the 2011 mass campaign. This represents a substantial increase over the baseline of 25
percent (DHS 2006), and demonstrates full achievement of the (revised) 70 percent target. The
2010 MIS also revealed that 87 percent of those households possessing LLINs reported that they
were indeed hanging properly, an indication of the high utilization of existing nets. Rural
households reported an even higher level of properly hung bednets (91 percent) than urban
households (83 percent). Likewise, the poorest quintile reported a higher level (91 percent) than the


11
  It is interesting to note, however, that the ranking of regions has changed from the time of the 2006 DHS to the 2010 MIS. In 2006
Zou-Collines was the fourth best performer for under-five LLIN use (at 25 percent), and rose to the number one position by 2010,
while Oueme ranked first on this indicator in 2006 (at 31 percent) but did not increase at pace with other departments. Likewise, in
2006 Zou-Collines was a middle performer on use of LLINs by pregnant women (at 21 percent) and Oueme ranked first on this
indicator (at 29 percent). But Zou-Colline’s improvements outpaced those of Oueme by 2010.

12
  In 2006, LLIN use by children under five was 25 percent in urban areas and 17 percent in rural areas; and LLIN use by pregnant
women was also 25 percent in urban areas and 17 percent in rural areas. The 2006 DHS documents large differentials in LLIN use
by the highest and lowest wealth quintiles: 34 vs. 9 percent for children under five; and 29 vs. 9 percent for pregnant women.


                                                                18
richest (85 percent). There were discrepancies in levels across departments (95 percent in
Atacora/Donga; and 73 percent in Atlantique/Littoral), but even the lowest level was substantial.
Availability of bednets and their effective use by target groups are attributable to the large-scale
promotion and distribution of LLINs supported by the project. Key outputs included the conduct of
two mass distribution campaigns (one in 2007 to which the project provided 1.4 million LLINs or
84 percent of all nets distributed; and one in 2011 to which the project provided 1.7 million LLINs),
including training of supervisors and distributors, logistics/transport of LLINs to villages,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of operations; the design and diffusion of sensitization
(IEC) tools and audiovisual productions; design and diffusion of tailor-made radio productions
through contracts with local radio stations. In the end, all 3,737 villages of Benin received LLINs.
Another key output is the facility-based, routine distribution of LLINs to target populations:
children under five at the time of measles vaccination; and pregnant women during ante-natal visits.
The project prepared guidelines and supported the training of a range of actors to this end.

58.    PNLP strengthened partnerships with communities, with NGOs covering each one of the
country’s 34 health zones. Contracted NGOs worked to increase the knowledge of communities
about how malaria is contracted and to encourage behaviors for its prevention. Thirty-three
contracts were signed in 2007 between NGOs and each health zone, and most were renewed in
2009, on the basis of good performance. Two were not renewed, because of unsatisfactory
performance and replaced by better performing ones. Contracts with local radio stations supported
the design and dissemination of radio spots and shows aimed at information and behavior change,
and radio call-in shows that assessed communities’ knowledge and understanding of the causes of
malaria and ways to treat and prevent it. National Malaria Day events took place in Dassa (2008),
Lokossa (2009) and Cotonou (2010).

59.     Project Inputs. The project provided 1.4 million LLINs for the 2007 mass campaign, 86
percent of all nets distributed during that campaign. It supported the second (2011) campaign with
1.7 million LLINs. Total LLINs acquired under the project exceeded the initial target of 2.2 million.
The project made LLINs available for routine distribution to pregnant women through ANC
services, initially through the use of the stock left over from the 2007 mass campaign. The project
subsequently procured 475,000 additional LLINs to ensure continued supply of nets for this service,
but there were delays in their availability. PMI provided nets for ANC services, and the 475,000
nets purchased by the project were ultimately used to fill the gap in available LLINs for the 2011
mass campaign.

60.     Other Donor Support. The PMI financed the LLINs needed to cover their routine
distribution to children under five vaccinated for measles and, as noted above, provided nets for
ANC services when project nets availability was delayed. In total PMI provided about 1.4 million
LLINs between 2008 and 2010. PADS also provided about 0.2 million during this time period and
UNICEF about 40,000 (PNLP Performance Review, April 2011). GFATM was also heavily
involved in the 2011 mass campaign.

Outcome #4: Strengthened M&E and Program Management Capacity
Sustantial achievement of original (unchanged) objective

61.    The project achieved its objectives of strengthening M&E and strategic management
capacity of Benin’s malaria program. These achievements, expressed in terms of outputs and
outcomes, are noted below.


                                                 19
62.      Project’s M&E Outputs. The project achieved its objectives of developing, approving and
installing the national M&E framework for malaria by the time of the mid-term review and
establishing and implementing a M&E operational plan. A framework defining how interventions
and staff performances, at all levels of the health system, would be monitored was established.
With project support a national M&E plan for malaria covering the period 2006-2010 was
developed and validated by key actors and stakeholders, including internationally-recognized
indicators. This plan is considered a major achievement by the PNLP and serves as a reference for
all partners supporting malaria efforts.

63.     The project supported a national mid-term evaluation (in 2008) using the Lot Quality
Assurance Sampling Method (LQAS) and a Malaria Indicators Survey (MIS) in 2010. It supported
the establishment of a routine malaria information system (SIRP), the collection of information on
process indicators and on results indicators, an evaluation of the mass distribution campaign and
other studies (efficacy of malaria drugs, vectors’ resistance to insecticides, and establishment of a
pharmacovigilance system). It also provided training and tools to health facilities in support of the
establishment of the Information System for Logistics Management (SIGL) to facilitate the
management of critical malaria inputs: ACTs, LLINs, RDTs and SP.

64.     Other Donor Support. A Health Facility Survey, led by PNLP with the support of
CDC/PMI, PSI and MSH, assessed the quality of malaria services. MEDISTOCK, financed by
USAID/PMI is a well-designed, appropriate software intended to support the operational level
(Department and health zones) in the management of essential stocks. It has been installed but staff
are not yet fully utilizing the system, training not yet completed. Most studies, program evaluation
surveys and M&E capacity building efforts were coordinated and/or undertaken jointly by partners.

65.    Project’s and RBM Partners’ Capacity Building Outputs. The project objective of
developing a prioritized, costed annual work plan on the basis of joint reviews of performance and
use of M&E data was also achieved. Since 2009 the PNLP has organized joint reviews of program
performance and coordinated the preparation of Annual Integrated Work Plans (Plan Integre de
Travail Annual Ŕ PITA), which incorporate the technical and financial support of all partners
contributing to the implementation and achievement of objectives of the NSP. This has culminated
in good coordination among partners, good complementarity of efforts, and led to more of a
seamless effort to ensure the reliable provision of program inputs and supports as donors come and
go and evolve their support. Under the project, the PNLP produced technically sound and well-
developed supervision guidelines that have served to ensure quality supervision, in terms of
technical content, comprehensive nature, and pedagogical orientation. The evidence is not only in
the production of the guidelines themselves, but also in the review of supervision reports, which are
complete, clear and actionable.

66.   With project support several PNLP staff benefited from short-term training, as well as other
MoH staff in other technical departments (itemized in Annex 2)

67.     With project (and others’) support, Benin’s malaria program reflects lessons learned from
other country programs and international good practices. Initially this was envisaged to happen
through the organization of regional exchanges. But these were not organized, as there were
already many opportunities for regional exchanges and learning. PNLP staff who attended global
or regional meetings, or who benefited from training established a process of briefing the entire
staff of PNLP on what they had learned and how lessons could be reflected in improvements to
program performance.

                                                 20
68.    Project Inputs. The project supported: M&E activities; capacity building, including
fellowships and specialized training; and investments aimed at ensuring adequate working
conditions of PNLP staff (renovation of PNLP premises, office furniture and equipment,
communication/operating costs).       But the capacity built (as described below) has been
overwhelmingly attributed to the quality and rigor of the Bank’s supervisions and to the constant
guidance, support and discipline of the Cotonou-based Task Team Leader.

Impact: Reduced Malaria Mortality1314

69.    Both the total number of deaths due to malaria and the malaria case fatality rate have
declined between 2005 and 2009 (Figures 1 and 2). These trends are significant for the total
population (all age groups) and for children under the age of five.

Figure 1: Number of Reported Deaths due to Malaria, 2005-2009




Source: PNLP Final Evaluation Report/Contribution to ICR, September 2011.




13
  Data used in this section are those reflected in PNLP’s completion report, drawn from its malaria information system (SIRP), a
component of MoH’s sector-wide information system (SNIGS), based on regular reporting by public health facilities. While such
reporting is not perfect, it is considered sufficiently reliable to indicate overall trends. Thus these data are shown to establish the
coherence between positive achievements in coverage of essential interventions, achieved with project support, and positive trends in
malaria mortality. Annex 9 compares these trends with those reported in WHO’s 2010 Malaria Report and reveals overall
consistency between the two sources. In line with advice of a malaria expert in the Bank’s Africa Region, the SIRP data are
presented here, as they are considered to be the more reliable source.

14
  Another caveat of these data is the fact that not all reported malaria cases are confirmed by microscopic or RDP diagnosis. (WHO
data show that about ¾ of reported cases are confirmed.) Among non-diagnosed malaria cases reported by health facilities,
anywhere between 10 to 30 percent are likely to be malaria. The Bank’s malaria expert is of the opinion that trends revealed with
these data are still reflective of program progress.


                                                                 21
Figure 2: Malaria Case Fatality Rates, 2005 – 2009




Source: PNLP Final Evaluation Report/Contribution to ICR, September 2011.

70.      Prior to project effectiveness (early 2007) rapid declines in malaria deaths and in the case
fatality rates (especially between 2005 and 2006) are plausibly attributed by the PNLP to the
implementation of a well-conceived NSP (2001-2005), with the technical and financial support of
RBM partners. The main achievements of the first NSP, which contributed to these outcomes,
were: (a) on the prevention front, improved availability of LLINs at subsidized prices and an
increasing appreciation by the population of the benefits of preventive behavior; and (b) on the case
management front, communication activities, which encouraged the population to seek early
treatment of malaria symptoms, and the support of malaria case management and treatment services
(which still involved the use of chloroquine for simple cases and quinine for severe cases). Indeed,
between 2005 and 2007, the number of both simple and severe malaria cases reported by health
facilities increased for the entire population and also among the under-five age group (Figure 3). It
is plausible to assume that these efforts contributed to the reduction in the number of deaths and in
the case fatality rate. Between 2006 and 2007, while still declining overall, the rate of decline of
the number of deaths and of the case fatality rate slowed (or flattened out) somewhat (Figures 1 and
2).

71.     From the time of project effectiveness (early 2007), and especially once the project was fully
up and running (end-2007/early 2008), malaria deaths and case fatality rates continued to decline
(Figures 1 and 2), albeit at a slower rate.15 These declines are attributable to all partners’ support to
the implementation of Benin’s new malaria policy and protocols, but the role of the project is
acknowledged (both by PNLP and by RBM partners) to have been pivotal on two fronts. First, it
constituted about 65 percent of all available financing (at the time of project approval), permitting a
substantial injection of resources to procure essential commodities and to support the training of
staff and volunteers, needed for nationwide scale-up. Second, both the injection of resources and
PNLP’s improved performance, as a consequence, were instrumental in attracting substantial
additional resources for the program, most notably, the support of USAID/PMI. The positive trends
in malaria deaths and case fatality rate are plausibly attributable to stepped-up program efforts that
improved access to, and utilization of, effective and efficient prevention and treatment interventions,
documented earlier in this section (Outcomes 1, 2 and 3). Early, effective treatment of simple
malaria cases and proper treatment of severe cases together have contributed to reduced malaria


15
  The slower rate of decline, especially between 2008 and 2009, is likely attributable, at least in part, to: (1) the difficulty
maintaining a rapid rate of decline, as progress is made; and (2) several health worker strikes coinciding with this time period, which
caused disruptions in services.


                                                                 22
mortality. From a pre-project (2006) baseline of 365,852, the annual number of simple malaria
cases in children under 5 reported by public health facilities increased by 30 percent to 482,669 in
2009. Concurrently, the number of severe malaria cases among children under 5 reported by health
facilities declined by 30 percent percent (from 108,576 in 2006 to 76,493 in 2009). These data
corroborate patterns of observations from program staff, health workers and civil
society/communities that increased, early treatment of malaria cases has reduced the number of
severe cases.

Figure 3: Number of Simple and Severe Malaria Cases Reported by Health Facilities, 2005-
2009




Source: PNLP Final Evaluation Report/Contribution to ICR, September 2011.

Efficiency (net present value/economic rate of return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons; and financial rate of return)

Rating: Substantial

72.     The project was efficient on a number of fronts. It prioritizes and supports (as does Benin’s
malaria strategy) the most cost-effective interventions for malaria control, identified by WHO, in a
stable endemic malaria area, such as Benin: (a) prevention through (i) the use of LLINs by children
under five and pregnant women; and (ii) the provision of IPTp to women during pregnancy; and (b)
case management through effective treatment in a health facility and home management, where
appropriate.16 The phasing out of chloroquine, documented to be no longer effective in Benin, and
the use of ACTs also assures more effective treatment and more efficient employment of funds and
efforts. WHO’s strategy also identifies indoor residual spraying as another intervention, in a stable
endemic malaria area, “where appropriate.? GoB considers this strategy to be complementary to its
core strategy of LLINs.17

16
   In 2005 WHO’s definition of effective case management (noted in the 2006 PAD) was presumptive treatment for suspected cases.
It has recently changed this definition to the treatment (in facilities) of cases confirmed by laboratory or rapid testing. Benin is also
evolving its strategy and action in this sense.

17
   The PAD notes that in 2006 GoB opted not to include this intervention nationwide because of its concerns about the harmful
effects of pesticides..

                                                                  23
73.     The strong coordination among all Benin’s malaria partners permitted a more effective and
efficient use of their technical and financial support, including: regular coordination meetings; joint
reviews and joint planning on an annual basis; implementation of joint activities (2011 mass
campaign and M&E/research support, being two cases in point). It was also efficient to integrate
the malaria information system into MoH’s sector-wide SNIGS. The reliance on the health system
to carry out malaria interventions avoided the creation of parallel efforts and structures, examples
being the distribution of LLINs to target groups through regular health services (measles
vaccination and ANC). The development and management of performance-based contracts with
clear performance indicators between central-level PNLP and the Departments and health zones for
the implementation of malaria interventions clarified roles and responsibilities and encouraged a
strong results focus that stakeholders note has contributed to their productivity. The contracts
between PNLP and health zones were also signed by Departments, thus strengthening their
oversight and support functions, as well as their authority. The decentralization of malaria efforts
ensured a stronger link with the community, whose knowledge and behaviors were crucial to the
project’s success. The role of NGOs and community malaria workers were pivotal.

74.     While reliance on the health system is a strong feature of this disease-specific project’s
design and implementation, it also risks some inefficiencies in activities and approaches supporting
project objectives, because the health system is in need of considerable strengthening. While
improving, the distribution of commodities and the management of these stocks are in need of
further strengthening. There are still some stockouts of commodities reported and some reported
leakages. But it is significant to note that the project was more efficient than the overall program in
terms of the management, availability and use of essential commodities. The Bank was the first
RBM partner to provide ACTs to Benin in support of the implementation of its new treatment
protocol. And the Bank financed almost all of the LLINs for the first (2007) mass campaign.
Subsequent stockouts of malaria commodities are attributed to GoB and other donor-financed
stocks that were delivered behind schedule. While there were leakages of drugs in the sector, an
investigation commissioned by the Minister of Health and transmitted to the Bank by letter of July
2009 confirmed that the drugs that were being sold illicitly on the market were not those financed
by the Bank.

75.     The quality of basic health services is not yet adequate. Underlying this are issues
associated with: irregular and uncoordinated supervisions of mixed quality; uncoordinated training
and inadequate training follow-up; occasional staff strikes; inadequacies in staffing and human
resources management; and inadequate operational budgets. These health system inefficiencies did
have an effect on the efficiency of malaria project and program efforts. But the alternative of
bypassing the health system and adopting a parallel approach would have been less efficient in the
long run. Indeed, many informants (both GoB and RBM partners) observed that the project and
program’s use of the health system had the effect of strengthening certain aspects of the health
system. Indeed there was strong consensus that a continuation of this approach holds the potential
for the malaria program to be the vehicle for health systems strengthening.

76.     The size of the PNLP staff at central level and the special malaria cells at the Departmental
level have been instrumental in the successful implementation of the intensified effort warranted
under the malaria strategy. But some in MoH are questioning the efficiency of the size of these
staffs and point to the opportunity for their consolidation and further integration. While successful
malaria control requires the involvement and support of other departments and divisions in MoH,
not all of them are reported to have provided adequate support or felt particularly accountable for

                                                  24
supporting malaria activities and outcomes. These shortcomings to efficiency are classified as
minor.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and
efficiency)

77.    High relevance, substantial efficacy 18 and substantial efficiency culminate in an overall
rating of satisfactory. On the advice of the World Bank’s Operations Policy and Country
ServicesVice-Presidency (OPCS), a moderately satisfactory rating was assigned to the project’s
development outcome rating on the final Implementation Status Report (ISR). Even though
available trend data gave indication that the project targets and objectives were likely to be achieved,
the end-of-project data were in the process of being collected and so the final evidence was not
available for this ISR.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered or to
amplify discussion above)

78.    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The PDOs were articulated
around two groups known to be most vulnerable to malaria morbidity and mortality: children under
the age of five and pregnant women. Prevention and treatment objectives aimed at these two target
groups were achieved. Thanks to successful safeguard compliance, there were no negative effects
on Benin’s population.

79.    The malaria burden falls disproportionately on the poor population who are at increased risk
of being infected more frequently and less likely to access care when confronting severe malaria
episodes. PNLP analysis reveals that the gaps across income groups in access to both treatment and
prevention have closed during the time of project and program implementation. (Data cited in
Efficacy section.)

80.    It is probable that benefits leaked beyond the project’s target group. There is strong demand
for LLINs beyond these target groups. Indeed, Benin’s new malaria strategy (2011-2015) has
broadened its prevention and treatment targets to encompass Benin’s entire population.

      Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development).

81.      Institutional strengthening was significant, and largely attributable to the Bank’s efforts.
First, it was significant that the Bank’s project was placed under the overall responsibility of the
PNLP. This design supported a learning-by-doing process that enabled the staff to take on its line
management responsibilities of overall strategic management and oversight and improve along the
way. Second, the Bank was noted to be very rigorous in its interactions with the PNLP, both
through supervision missions and through regular contact and exchanges made possible by the task
team leader’s Benin base. The task team leader had high expectations and insisted on rigor and
excellent performance. While this proved difficult for PNLP staff at the project’s outset, it was
reported by all, including those at decentralized levels, that this process built capacity as no other



18
     Efficacy was rated substantial, both against original targets and against revised targets. See Table 2 for details.


                                                                      25
had done before, on a number of fronts: M&E and use of data for decision-making; financial
management; strategic management; and aid coordination.

82.     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative). The utilization rates of
two critical services – ANC and childhood vaccination – increased during the life of the project.
These increases were attributable to the very strong demand for LLINs, generated by this project,
and to their provision to clients as a part of these routine services.

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for Core
ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

83.      A workshop of stakeholders and beneficiaries was held in Bohicon, Department of Zou-
Collines on (September 28, 2011) during the ICR mission to allow these groups to share their views
on the project’s performance.          Three groups discussed and synthesized their opinions:
beneficiaries/civil society; operational level service providers and managers; and central level MoH,
including PNLP and other key MoH divisions involved. These findings are presented in Annex 6.
In summary, there was remarkable consistency across the three groups on: the success of the project
in achieving its objectives; the importance of its decentralized design and its ability to reach and
affect communities; the appreciation of the World Bank’s rigor in supervising and guiding the
project and in building capacity; and a concern about the sustainability of the achievements and
activities supported under the project. This last point is taken up in the following section.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

84.     The maintenance and further improvement of this project’s (and program’s) development
outcome will depend on a number of factors. On the technical front, the changes in Benin’s
approach to malaria prevention (vigorous promotion of LLINs) and case management (replacement
of chloroquine with ACTs) were not exclusive to this project. Rather they are encapsulated in
Benin’s own malaria policy and strategy, and reflective of WHO recommendations. Thus they are
likely to be sustained. On the financial front, there is concern that a declining national budget for
health could undermine the implementation of activities essential to the continued coverage of high-
risk groups with quality prevention and treatment interventions (not to mention the extended
coverage of these interventions to all segments of the population, in line with Benin’s new strategy).
This would include: continued prevention and treatment activities to influence the knowledge,
behaviors and utilization of prevention and treatment interventions by new cohorts of vulnerable
groups (involving the continued financing of inputs and activities of a range of implementers); and
health systems strengthening to improve services quality, strengthen human resources management,
development and supervision, improve commodities acquisition, distribution and management, and
to ensure good operation and maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment. It would also
include the support of essential operating costs for program management, including the costs of
communications and of continued rigor and depth in M&E and research. While RBM partners are
well equipped to cover some of these needs, especially commodities and some aspects of capacity
building, others will need the adequate support of the national budget.

85.     On the social front, there is strong awareness, support and appreciation of the efforts and
results of this project on the part of civil society, including beneficiaries, local officials and
community activists and groups (see stakeholders’ views presented in Annex 6), and a call for
continued support. From an institutional perspective, considerable capacity for strategic program
management has been built, with the Bank taking a lead role in coaching and supporting central-
                                                 26
and Departmental-level malaria staff and efforts, but informants and direct observation indicate that
more of this type of effort is needed to consolidate gains and further strengthen institutions.
Politically speaking, there is strong support at the highest levels of government for malaria efforts, a
recent announcement of the Head of State that all malaria treatment services would be free to
vulnerable groups, a case in point. This policy will need to be matched with the resources to enable
its full implementation. On the environmental front, continued compliance with safeguards is likely,
given GoB’s concern about the potential negative effects of insecticides. But this, too, will require
light financing.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

86.      The above section (2) on “Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry? provides details
demonstrating a strong quality at entry. They will be summarized here. The strategic relevance of
the project was strong, as evidenced in the high relevance of both it objectives and design. A clear
results framework and viable institutional arrangements enhanced the likelihood that project
investments would culminate in the achievement of development objectives. Technical aspects of
the project were grounded in WHO recommendations, endorsed and supported by other RBM
partners, and reflected in Benin’s own malaria strategy. Fiduciary aspects were well prepared,
based on thorough assessments of capacities in procurement and financial management; and
capacity building arrangements and interventions were put into place to ensure readiness for
implementation. Relevant safeguards were properly assessed and addressed in the project design.
Institutional aspects were strong in that they: relied on the program line manager and staff; focused
equally on the deconcentrated levels of the health system and clarified their own roles in
project/program implementation; and understood the importance of community-based, demand-side
interventions, appropriately assigning these to experienced NGOs that would work in the 34 health
zones.

87.    M&E design strengthened the results focus, emphasized the importance of its use for
problem solving and decision-making, and envisaged the coordination and collaboration of all RBM
partners on this front, as well as the integration of malaria M&E into the sector-wide M&E system.
The risk assessment was candid, thorough and proposed risk mitigation appropriate. The Bank’s
inputs and processes were solid, drawing on the expertise of a multi-disciplinary team and good
collaboration with all RBM partners, including WHO as the technical leader.

88.     This satisfactory rating is consistent with the QALP on this project, conducted in July 2010.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

89.    The Bank’s supervision was strongly focused on the development impact. There was
usually an M&E expert on the team. Much effort was placed on updating the baselines in light of
new DHS data, and guiding/supporting a mid-term LQAS survey to provide indication of progress
against outcome targets, and outcome targets were revised in light of both new data sets. Aide-
                                              27
memoires and internal reporting kept the development outcomes in the forefront, and issues raised
about delays or weaknesses in implementation were always addressed in light of their impact on
achieving development outcomes. The Bank was candid and rigorous in assessing and addressing
project management and coordination issues. In 2008 when project management suffered, a
consequence of political changes and a change in the project coordinator, urgent actions brought
resolution (the appointment of a capable project coordinator) quickly and effectively.

90.     Supervision of fiduciary and safeguards aspects was also strong. Procurement missions and
post reviews were carried out as scheduled and their findings reflected in the overall supervision
reporting. The post procurement reviews reported various deficiencies in procurement handling by
the PNLP/Unit and suggested appropriate mitigation measures such as recruitment of an additional
procurement specialist and training. Supervision also reviewed the procurement plan and verified
contract management by PNLP. Supervision of financial management focused on improving
financial management capacity and performance. Mission reports were thorough and pro-active in
identifying weaknesses (e.g., internal control) and agreeing action plans to address them. Proactive
financial management supervision helped upgrade performance from Moderately Unsatisfactory to
Satisfactory in the span of one year and maintain satisfactory performance throughout the rest of the
project life. The Bank team closely supervised environmental safeguards aspects of the Project,
provided detailed reports and recommendations in the Aide Memoires, and adjusted the ISR ratings
to reflect compliance performance.

91.     The task team leader’s performance was highly satisfactory. Informants (spanning central,
departmental, and operational level staff) were consistent in recognizing the capacity building
effects of: his close, pedagogical supervision, the candor and problem-solving orientation of the
Aide-memoires, the rigor with which he assessed the performance and capacity of the PNLP and all
implementing agencies, the high standards he set for them all, and the constant guidance he
provided to them, which enabled them to improve. His success in strengthening capacity is also
acknowledged in the Borrower’s ICR. He has also earned the high respect of all RBM partners,
who recognize the comparative advantage he brought to the partnership, as well as the respectful,
collaborative approach. There was also candor in internal reporting, which reflected a pro-activity
in the oversight of this project. Both Government and partners noted their appreciation of the
composition of Bank supervision teams, which were multi-disciplinary and responsive to current
issues and constraints, as well as their reliance on (rather than duplication of) expertise available
through the RBM partnership. WHO participation in every supervision mission undertaken during
project implementation provides a good illustration. BB allocation ($80,000) was lower than for
other projects because of the location of the TTL in the field. The allocation was supplemented
with trust funds to provide additional expertise on missions, especially M&E.

92.      This ICR’s assessment of supervision is consistent with the July 2010 QALP, which also
rated it satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and
justification only for Overall Borrower Performance.

(a) Government Performance:
                                                 28
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

93.     Government ownership and commitment to this project were strong, given that (1) the social
and economic toll of malaria on Benin’s population was well known and (2) a solid policy and
multi-year strategy had been endorsed and adopted. Even the Head of State has spoken publicly
about malaria as a priority and recently introduced a new policy of free malaria treatment for
pregnant women and children. The Government consistently honored its counterpart obligations
(annual provision of US$1.9 million equivalent to the PNLP). However, a significant shortcoming
in Government performance was the failure to facilitate the efficient processing of procurements of
essential commodities, critical to the launch of key project activities, both prevention- and
treatment-related. The National Procurement Agency took months, instead of the 15-day
turnaround standard, to approve procurements. MoEF also took months to sign key contracts,
instead of the 15-day turnaround standard. These delays had important implications on
implementation progress (See section on Major Factors Affecting Implementation.)

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:
Rating: Satisfactory

94.     The PNLP was highly committed to the achievement of the project development objectives
and this drove them to work hard and efficiently. The whole staff was devoted to the focus on, and
involvement of, communities in project implementation; and the PNLP staff includes a sociologist,
who devotes himself to ensuring that the project is centered on communities, that NGOs working
with communities are performing in a satisfactory manner, that community malaria workers have
what they need to perform their functions, that communities have inputs to the design of relevant
IEC/BCC campaigns, and that benefits are indeed reaching the communities. The utilization of
M&E data in decision-making by the PNLP has been robust. PNLP’s relationship with the
development partners is solid. The Departmental-level malaria units appear to have implemented
their responsibilities in line with the contractual obligations. Over and above joint annual reviews
and joint planning events, PNLP and its partners meet on a monthly basis and coordinate and
collaborate effectively, in line with comparative advantages of the various partners. Fiduciary
performance was adequate, improving over time with close Bank supervision and guidance.

95.     With regard to other implementing agencies, NGOs working at the zone levels performed
well over all. A couple of NGOs that did not perform satisfactorily during the first two years of the
project were not renewed. Their working relationships with the health zones improved in the
second round of contracts when the local level was involved in their selection and health zones
were responsible for validating NGO reports before their transmission to PNLP. CAME’s
involvement in managing drug procurements, storage and distribution was satisfactory, and
improved over time, especially once roles and responsibilities between PNLP, CAME and CPM
were further clarified. Other MoH divisions, both technical and administrative, also collaborated
with PNLP. But it has been noted that accountabilities for achieving malaria objectives are
perceived to fall exclusively on the PNLP, which tempers other divisions’ support and involvement.
Research institutions, contracted by PNLP to undertake studies, performed well.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

                                                 29
96.    Rigor and candor in the Bank’s supervision can play a pivotal role in capacity building.
The task team leader’s presence in the field and his rigorous, pedagogical approach to
accompanying and guiding the PNLP in strategic management and oversight of the project (and
program) were consistently cited as being a critical factor of success in strengthening Benin’s
capacity, and recognized as an important comparative advantage of the Bank.

97.      Even within a single disease program, a sector-wide approach can achieve great synergies
and efficiencies in planning, financing, implementation, evaluation. The seamless coordination
and collaboration among the RBM partners has culminated in a number of good practices and
efficiencies. One example is the effort to undertake joint studies and evaluations. This has resulted
in: efficiency in evaluation implementation (cost sharing); results that are accepted by all interested
parties; and good data quality thanks to the use of international standards and protocols. Another
example is the truly joint, collaborative nature of the second (2011) mass campaign, which involved
the coordinated support of multiple partners, all working toward one set of objectives. Coordinated
efforts to ensure a reliable supply of essential commodities is yet another example. Joint planning
and reviews have helped underpin these synergies.

98.     It is possible to support a single disease through a health systems approach. Disease
control and health systems strengthening are not mutually exclusive. The malaria program has a
clear, disease-specific set of inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes, but it relies on the health
system for its implementation. This reliance on the health system (rather than opting for a more
vertical, parallel approach) has caused inefficiencies and weaknesses in implementation. But all
stakeholders agree that it has also provided – and continues to provide – a vehicle for health
systems strengthening. This being said, failure to clarify that accountabilities for malaria
outcomes lie with the entire health system, and not just with the PNLP, can cause other MoH
departments to compromise the quality and quantity of their support to this end.

99.    Quality of supervision depends in part on striking the right balance between depth and
breadth of supervision efforts. There is evidence and strong consensus that both the quantity and
quality of supervision needs to be increased and that quality supervision requires the proper
technical expertise. There is also ongoing debate about the need for integrated supervision. But a
tension has emerged about how to reconcile a sufficiently in-depth, technically accurate disease
focus with the philosophy of an integrated supervision. While integrated supervision makes sense
from health systems and efficiency perspectives, it needs to be reconciled with the need to ensure (i)
coverage of the breadth of malaria-specific activities and technical guidance (diagnosis, treatment,
prevention..); and (ii) the involvement of malaria experts who are up to date on the latest protocols
vs. generalists, who are not.

100. Community malaria workers were pivotal in the success of the malaria program. While
not directly financed under the Bank’s project, these workers were the first point of contact of
children under five suffering from malaria symptoms. Community-level treatment has enhanced
the ability of the health system to treat children within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms and,
according to health facility staff, contributed to a decline in severe cases. They have also been
instrumental in encouraging LLIN use. Other donors and NGOs working on other diseases and
health systems strengthening are depending increasingly on these same workers to deliver other
services. MoH is challenged to establish a policy to manage this precious resource, both to ensure
that the workload is manageable and to decide on fair and proper motivation of these workers.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

                                                  30
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies:

101. Annex 7 provides a summary of the Borrower’s ICR. The report was very well prepared,
drawing on a strong evidence base. The overview of project design and assessment of its
implementation and outcomes are fully consistent with the ICR. The Borrower’s evaluative
comments are highlighted as follows. The project was found to have truly boosted the
implementation of Benin’s national malaria policy. The role of the Bank was highly valued. The
importance of maintaining and further strengthening gains made under this project is emphasized.
The Bank’s continued technical and financial support is strongly solicited as GoB embarks on the
implementation of its new NSP for 2011-2015.

102.   PNLP has reviewed and endorsed the final draft of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:

103. The project was not formally cofinanced, but the PNLP and the project benefited from the
close collaboration and coordination of the RBM partners. Annex 8 summarizes the views of the
RBM partners on the project, who met as a group with the ICR mission in September 2011 to share
their views. In short, they expressed strong consensus on three points: (1) the overall success of the
project and, more broadly, of Benin’s national malaria program over the past five years; (2)
concerns about the sustainability of achievements and the need for continued support, especially
with regard to health systems strengthening; and (3) the value added of the strong coordination and
collaboration among RBM partners and opportunities for continued and enhanced efforts to this end.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g., NGOs/private sector/civil society):

104. A civil society subgroup, composed of elected officials, community representatives,
community health workers, NGOs and local radio stations, synthesized their views on project
achievements, remaining challenges and lessons. These views are captured in Annex 6 (Group A).
In summary, this group has a strong (and accurate) appreciation of the project’s contribution and
outcome and it points to the importance of continued efforts, both to consolidate and to extend gains.
Challenges include: elimination of any stock-outs of essential commodities; remuneration of
community malaria workers, perhaps through local initiatives/budgets; community mobilization to
clean the environment; and strengthened supervision of community-level activities by health zones.
It is noteworthy that this group appreciates the link between M&E and the achievement of results.




                                                 31
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
     Components           Appraisal          Appraisal      Actual/Latest  Actual as % of
                           Estimate         Estimate w/      Estimate 1/ Appraisal Estimate
                         (US$million)      contingencies    (US$ million) w/contingencies
1. Improving Case                13.53                 14.7            8.1              55%
Management and
Access to Treatment
2.Scaling up Prevention              11.96               13.0           21.3              164%
Activities
3.Strengthening                        1.56               1.7            0.9               53%
Monitoring and
Evaluation
4.Strengthening                        1.47               1.6            2.7              169%
Program Management,
Capacity Development
and Promoting Regional
Cooperation
    Total Baseline Cost              28.52
Physical and Price                     2.48
Contingencies
    Total Project Costs              31.00               31.0           33.0
Total Financing                                                                           106%
Required
1/ Total actual cost in US$ is taken from Bank disbursement data (October 14, 2011) and
distributed across the components, based on PNLP calculations of component costs in CFAF (Table
a-2).




                                               32
(a-2) Project Cost by Component (shown in GoB’s ICR Chapter) (CFAF million)
           Components              Appraisal    %    Actual/Latest  %       Actual
                                    Estimate           Estimate             as % of
                                     (CFAF              (CFAF              Appraisal
                                    million)           million)
1. Improving Case Management        4,441.434    29      3,771.433    24          85
and Access to Treatment
2.Scaling up Prevention Activities  7,017.668    45      9,961.442    65         142
3.Strengthening Monitoring and      1,272.150     8        403.477      3         32
Evaluation
4.Strengthening Program             1,235.925    18      1,291.760      8        104
Management, Capacity
Development and Promoting
Regional Cooperation
               Total Baseline Cost
Physical and Price Contingencies
               Total Project Costs 13,967.177 100%     15,428,112 100%



(b) Financing
                                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                        Type of                                        Percentage of
              Source of Funds                                              Estimate        Estimate
                                                      Cofinancing                                       Appraisal
                                                                         (USD millions) (USD millions)
IDA                       Grant                              21.6 SDRs                    21.1 SDRs                       97%
                                             US$31.00 equivalent       US$33.00 equivalent                  107%
Note: As envisaged in the PAD, the project was 100% financed by IDA. Nevertheless, during negotiations, GoB
committed to allocate to the PNLP on an annual basis US$1.9 million equivalent to cover program activities and costs.
This commitment was honored throughout the life of the project.

(c) Allocation of IDA Grant (SDR Equivalent) and Percent of Expenditures to be Financed
Disbursement Category             Original           %          Revised           %          Actual           Actual as % of
                                 Allocation                    Allocation                   Allocation           Original
                                   (DGA                        (4/27/10)                                        Allocation
                                 11/09/06)
(1) Rehabilitation works              110,000      100%            219,451       100%           199,393                    181%
(2) Goods, drugs, re-             16,600,000       100%         16,581,440       100%        16,488,354                     99%
agents and equipment
(3) Consultants’                     2,100,000     100%          3,559,605       100%         3,027,529                    144%
services, training, audits
(4) Operating costs                    800,000     100%          1,238,994       100%         1,232,525                    154%
(5) Refunding of Project               400,000      2.02               510        2.02              509                      0%
Preparation Advance                                (c)                              (c)
                                                   DGA                           DGA
(6) Unallocated                     1,590,000            -               -
Total                              21,600,000            -      21,600,000                 20,948,310
Rounded to millions                      21.6                         21.6                 21.0*
Source: Bank Project Portfolio System, October 2011.
*Note: 0.1 difference between this figure and the figure in Table (b) is due to rounding, as both were obtained from same source.
1.1     Reallocation of Grant Proceeds. An April 27, 2010 restructuring paper explained the basis
for the reallocation of the grant proceeds (as shown in the middle column of Table (c) above). The
undisbursed amount (US$9.7 million equivalent) was slated to be used to purchase an additional 1.2
                                                                 33
million LLINs to increase the coverage of targeted groups in the context of the new mass campaign,
provide new stocks of ACTs and RDTs to be rolled out into public health facilities, and finance
household and health facilities surveys to document results achieved at the end of the Project.
Reallocations across disbursement categories were made to rectify higher-than-planned spending on
rehabilitation works, consultant services and operating costs, which became overdrawn. The
reallocations did not entail changes in activities, nor did they affect total project costs. Moreover,
there was no change to the 100 percent financing of all disbursement categories.

1.2     Extension of Closing Date. By letter of September 14, 2010, responding to GoB’s request
to the Bank of July 14, 2010, the World Bank approved a four-month extension of the original
closing date, from February 28, 2011 to June 30, 2011. This extension was granted to allow GoB to
complete a few major activities, which would consolidate the results achieved to date. Activities
included:
 The organization of a mass campaign distribution of LLINs involving major RBM donors
    including the Bank. (The Bank procured on time 1.2 million LLINs but few major donors
    encountered delay in their provision process, forcing GoB to postpone the campaign from July
    2010 to Nov 2010.); and
 Completion of an action plan, included in GoB’s request, composed of:
        o Activities linked to the national mass campaign distribution of LLINs
        o Household and health facilities surveys to evidence results achieved at the end of the
           Project
        o Research activity to assess the effects of the integrated malaria control through the use
           of LLINs and of ACTs in malaria case management
        o Audit of the project account as required in the DGA.




                                                 34
                                                                                            Annex 2
                                                                                   19
                                                  Outputs by Component

Component 1: Improving Case Management and Access to Treatment (original estimate:
US$14.7 million, or 29% of original project cost; actual cost: US$8.1 million, or 24% of the final
project cost).

2.1     Critical Inputs. Over the four-year implementation period the project acquired and
distributed a total of 25,325,010 ACT treatments to improve case management and access to
treatment of simple cases of malaria. These drugs were first made available in mid-2008 to all
public health facilities in all 34 health zones and all 12 departments in the country through CAME
and its 3 regional depots. That same year and under the responsibility of the DPMED, the project
also supported the removal of chloroquine and other artemisinine-based monotherapies from public
health facilities and private retailers throughout the country and their destruction and proper
disposal. It also supported improved case diagnosis through the provision in September 2008 of
1,600,000 rapid diagnosis tests (RDTs), ordered in 2007. RDTs are in use now in all public health
centers in the country. In addition, it supplied in 2008 “BX41? microscopes and (together with
national budget support) related laboratory supplies and materials to nine health facilities (the
National University Hospital, 3 zonal hospitals and five health centers) and to the PNLP. RDTs and
lab equipment and supplies were assessed on the basis of a mapping exercise undertaken by PNLP
in 2008. In addition, the project provided in 2009 64,244 A Kits and 49,799 B kits (ordered in
2007) for the management of serious malaria cases in children under the age of 5 years.

2.2      Training. Health service providers were trained with a view to improving their knowledge
and skills necessary for proper case management. Such training covered essential elements, most
notably: GoB’s new Malaria Control policy, the proper and routine diagnosis, including the
utilization of RDTs, and the correct utilization of ACTs. In total, some 10,000 health workers
received this training. Specifically: 85 Level A lab technicians (vs. 90 planned) and 139 Level B
lab technicians (vs. 140 planned) were trained in the proper diagnosis of malaria, using both
microscopic and RDT methods. Training was supported with manuals and training guides. A total
of 1997 health providers (doctors, nurses and midwives) were trained in malaria case management
in referral hospitals, considerably more than the 275 initially planned. This difference is due to an
initial underestimate of the number of health providers working in these facilities. At the health
zone level 166 doctors were trained in 2009 and 2010 to implement the new Malaria Control Policy.
This essentially covered all doctors operating in health zones, but less than the initial estimate of
430. Underpinning this training and pedagogical follow-up were the preparation and printing in
2008 of training materials and of a malaria supervision protocol for guiding/overseeing proper
implementation of the new treatment policy throughout the zones’ catchment areas. At the
operational, front-line level, 2,526 (of a total of 3,373) doctors, nurses, midwives, lab technicians,
pharmacists and other qualified health workers were trained in 2008 to implement the new case
management and treatment protocols (exceeding the 2,363 target, as were 3,581 (of a total of 3,682)
non-qualified health workers (exceeding the target of 1781). The original targets were found to be
underestimates, following a micro-planning exercise undertaken by field-based actors. Orientation
meetings planned for private facilities were not undertaken. Also not undertaken were: the
organization of meetings with pre-service trainers and the preparation of curricula on the new


19
     Original cost estimates are drawn from PAD estimates, inclusive of contingencies.


                                                                  35
policy. The project did not organize, as planned, a workshop to prepare and validate an
implementation plan for dispensing ACT at the community level, but Catholic Relief Services has
been working on this front.       The project also supported the supervision/oversight of proper
implementation of the new policy. Semi-annual supervision by the central level to the departmental
level was carried out quite regularly. Supervisions by the DDS to the health zones, by the health
zones to the health centers, and by the health centers to the community level are reported to have
been carried out less regularly than planned. But they did occur several times per year, as reported
by PNLP, and directly observed by the evaluation team during field visits.

2.3      The establishment of a system for pharmacovigilance is in process. This is being
undertaken under the leadership of the DPM, which has the mandate for this work. Elements
include: the preparation and validation of a form for reporting side effects; the establishment of an
ad hoc committee on pharmacovigilance; and the identification of pilot health facilities (sentinel
sites) for monitoring side effects.

2.4    Communication/Advocacy. National-level communication and advocacy activities were
organized to sensitize national opinion on the new Malaria Control policy and its importance in
addressing the country’s high morbidity and mortality due to malaria.

Component 2: Scaling Up Prevention Activities (original estimate: US$13.0 million or 45
percent of original project cost; actual cost: US$21.3 million or 65 percent of the final project
cost).

2.5      This component supported essentially two types of prevention activities: (1) the large-scale
promotion and distribution of LLINs to pregnant women and children under the age of five; and (2)
improved coverage of intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) for pregnant women through the
dispensing of Sulfadoxine Pyrimethamine (SP) as a part of ante-natal care (ANC). Essentially all
activities planned under this component were carried out.

2.6     Mass distribution campaigns to households. The project was the principle financier of the
first mass distribution campaign, which took place in 2007: nets, activities, financing. The project
provided 1.4 million LLINs, 86 percent of all nets distributed during the campaign. The project
supported a second mass distribution campaign in 2011, with 1,675,000 LLINs. Total LLINs
acquired exceeded the initial target of 2.2 million. The project supported other activities associated
with the successful mass campaigns. A workshop was held to design different sensitization tools
(posters, health center signs, billboards, information brochures, etc.). Audiovisual productions
(films, TV spots, radio spots in 12 local languages, documentaries) were designed and diffused.
The project trained radio and newspaper journalists and briefed town criers (crieurs publics) – one
per village – on the campaign objectives and targets. Under contract with the PNLP radios
transmitted messages to the population before, during and after the campaigns and on the utilization
and care of LLINs. The project also supported a number of planning and training activities
associated with the organization, logistics and implementation of the campaign, including:
validation of the LLIN distribution protocol, coupled with Vitamine A and Albendazole
distribution; preparation and validation of commune, health zone and departmental microplans;
training of 692 arrondissement supervisors and 198 commune supervisors, and of 28,581 net
distributors; transport of LLINs from the port of Cotonou to communes; management of stocks;
radio contracts; monitoring and evaluation activities. In the end, all 3737 villages of Benin received
LLINs.


                                                 36
2.7     Routine distribution of LLINs through regular health services. The project prepared
guidelines and supported the training of the range of actors involved in the facility-based, routine
distribution of bed nets to target populations: children under five at the time of project made LLINs
available for routine distribution to pregnant women through ANC services initially through the use
of the stock left over from the 2007 mass campaign. The project subsequently procured some
475,000 additional LLINs to ensure continued supply of nets for this purpose, but there were delays
in their availability. PMI provided nets for ANC services, and the 475,000 nets purchased by the
project were ultimately used to fill the gap in available LLINs for the 2011 mass campaign.

2.8    Community Partnerships through NGO Contracts. PNLP strengthened partnerships with
communities with NGOs covering each one of the country’s 34 health zones. Contracted NGOs
worked to increase the knowledge of communities about how malaria is contracted and to
encourage behaviors for its prevention. Thirty-three contracts were signed in 2007 between NGOs
and each health zone, and most were renewed in 2009. Two were replaced by other NGOs in 2009,
because of their unsatisfactory performance. National Malaria Day events took place in Dassa
(2008), Lokossa (2009), and Cotonou (2010).

2.9    Intermittent Preventive Treatment involves the provision of two doses of Sulfadoxine-
Pyrimethamine to pregnant women during the course of their antenatal visits. The project
supported implementation of this aspect of Benin’s Malaria Strategy through the acquisition of
593,400 doses of SP, or 74 percent of the 800,000 doses initially planned. Other RBM partners
provided additional doses.

Component 3: Strengthening of Monitoring and Evaluation (original estimate: US$1.7 million,
or 8 percent of the total original project cost; actual cost: US$0.9 million, or 3 percent of the
final project cost).

2.10 With project support a national Malaria Control M&E framework was developed and
validated, covering the 2006-2010 period, its indicators responsive to international exigencies. This
framework is relied upon by all partners contributing to the program and constitutes a major
accomplishment.       In an effort to harmonize the support and efforts of all partners, an annual
integrated work plan incorporating the contributions of all is now routinely prepared, the first one
produced in 2009.

2.11 Under this component several evaluations were undertaken to assess the extent to which
goals and targets set under the 2006-2010 strategic plan were achieved. To this end, the project
supported a national Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) exercise in 2008 and a Malaria
Indicators Survey (MIS) in 2010. Under the overall coordination of PNLP, the project also
contributed to a Health Facility Survey, implemented jointly with CDC/PMI, PSI and MSH and to a
study of malaria health indicators in health facilities in all 12 of Benin’s departments. The project
also supported studies to assess on an annual basis the levels of resistance of plasmodium to
antimalarial medicines and of the vector to LLINs and insecticides. These activities were
contracted out to various research/scientific institutions in Benin, under the supervision of PNLP.

2.12. To ensure regular data on malaria from health facilities a routine malaria information system
(SIRP) and a logistics management information system (SIGL) were established. The SIGL tracks
information on essential malaria inputs (ACTs, LLINs, RDTs and SP). The process of establishing
the SIRP included project support to the training of health facility staff and the provision of data
collection tools.

                                                 37
Conceptual Framework of National Malaria Program’s Monitoring and Evaluation System
Routine data collection        Routine Malaria information system (SIRP), based on
                                  LOGISNIGS (34 health zones, malaria units in 12 departments,
                                  central malaria unit)
                               Logistics management system (SIGLP), based on MEDISTOCK
                                  and PIPELINE (34 health zones, DDS, PNLP)
                               Six-monthly monitoring in health facilities
                               Supervision (national, departmental and operational levels)
                               Monitoring of annual integrated plan (PITA)
Special studies                Post-campaign survey
                               Lot Quality Assurance (LQAS) evaluation
                               Epidemiological studies (vector, drugs)
                               Quality of case management and treatment in health facilities

2.13 Training, Workshops, Consultancies. All of the planned activities were implemented. A
study on the efficacy of LLINs and insecticides was carried out by the Institut de Recherche en
Developpement (IRD). A meeting was held to get consensus on M&E indicators for malaria and for
reporting protocols; and a national plan for M&E of malaria was prepared and validated. The
implementation of this plan culminated in an updating of the statistical database of PNLP.

2.14 Evaluation of Utilization of LLINs 12 Months after the Mass Campaign. This activity took
place in 2008, although it was initially planned for April 2007. Its delay was prompted by WHO’s
guidance, recommending that such evaluations be undertaken at least 11 months after the
distribution of nets.

2.15 Collection of information on process indicators. Two of the three planned activity were
fully realized: (1) a study on malaria indicators in health facilities in Benin’s 12 departments for the
establishment of baseline data; and (2) pre-test and finalization of tools for routine data collection.
The third activity (mapping exercise of baseline data, by department and health zone) was only
partially achieved, due to inadequate time for training health staff to this end. The LQAS did help
establish data at the health zone level.

2.16 Collection of information on results indicators. Household surveys through the LQAS
methodology were carried out, as planned. Activities involved included: development of an
implementation plan and preparation of household-level data collection tools; organization of a
consensus meeting on the tools; pre-testing of tools; training of data collectors; data collection,
analysis, report writing and organization of dissemination workshop; and utilization of results for
planning in the health zones. Zones which were identified as not achieving (or not likely to
achieve) project objectives were prompted to incorporate into their plans ways and means of
improving their performance.

2.17 Implementation of Logistics Management Information System. All activities planned under
the project were implemented, but were ultimately financed by USAID/PMI with the technical
support of MSH. This is a good indicator of the level of coordination and collaboration among
partners supporting the PNLP, and PNLP’s leadership in managing partners. The system is now
operational in all 34 health zones, using Medistock software at DDS and health zone levels, and
Pipeline software at the central level. Activities leading to this achievement included: design of a
survey, training of data collectors, evaluation of SIGL in Mono and Couffo, introduction of system
improvements in line with initial evaluation, evaluation of SIGL in all Benin’s departments, and
subsequent system improvements in light of findings.

                                                    38
2.18 Survey on the Quality of Services. This activity consisted of the design and implementation
of a health facilities survey to assess the quality of services. Originally envisaged to be undertaken
with project support, this activity was ultimately designed and undertaken with the participation of
other development partners, notably MSH, PSI and the project. While this partnership took time to
establish and to ensure that the activities/interests of all partners were incorporated into the study,
the benefits of this coordination were worth the effort. Partners split the costs of the study and took
ownership of its results. The technical supervision and oversight of CDC provided quality
assurance of the study’s integrity and results.

2.19 Four other planned studies were implemented: (1) two studies on the efficacy of malaria
drugs; (2) a study on vectors’ resistance to insecticides; (3) establishment of a pharmacovigilance
system; and (4) a qualitative study on the effect of LLIN utilization by target groups on the demand
for malaria care (study carried out, but never finalized). A study on the social and economic costs
of malaria was not carried out.

2.20 M&E activities were strengthened at all levels of the health system with: (1) the provision of
computer and office equipment; (2) capacity building through long and short-term training; and (3)
the establishment of the malaria information system (SIRP) regularly updated and able to produce
data on malaria morbidity and mortality. This was implemented through an approach which
strengthened the SNIGS by integrating variables allowing the assessment of program performance
against targets and objectives and the tracking of various inputs (LLINs, ACT, SP) for the country.
The statisticians and heads of the Studies, Planning and Statistics service in the 34 health zones
were trained in the utilization of LogiSNIGS.

2.21 Epidemiological surveillance is carried out with regularity, essentially composed of the
regular collection of morbidity and mortality data in health facilities, malaria surveillance in
sentinel sites, surveys on the coverage of LLINs, etc.

Component 4: Strengthening Program Management, Capacity Development and Promoting
Regional Cooperation (original estimate: US$1.6 million, or 5 percent of total estimated cost;
actual cost: US$2.7 million or 8 percent of final project cost).

2.22 Program Management. The project purchased computers, printers and pick-ups for central
level PNLP, the six DDS-level malaria units and 30 health zones. It also provided a motorcycle to
each of the 34 health zones and one for PNLP, central. In addition it provided PNLP, central level,
with office furniture and office and media equipment to carry out its functions. (These are itemized
in a detailed note prepared by the PNLP, available on file; and all of these acquisitions have been
audited and accounted for.) The project also rehabilitated the PNLP offices, adding a second floor
to a one-story building, and constructing a small annex building to house the staff. It also
constructed and equipped a storage facility for the Centrale d’Achat des Medicaments Essentiels
(CAME) to increase its storage capacity to receive and manage drugs to be purchased with project
proceeds. The project supported the running costs of PNLP including: office supplies, vehicle
operation and maintenance, communications.

2.23 The project financed the audits of the PPF and of the project years 2007, 2008, 2009 and
2010, carried out by two independent auditing firms. In addition, the General Inspectorate of MoH
carried out a control of funds allocated to health zones and to the DDS. The Project Coordination
also carried out annual supervision missions to oversee the management and use of funds in health
zones and DDS during the four-year implementation period.

                                                  39
2.24 The project also financed the mid-term evaluation of the project in May 2009 at a workshop
with 97 participants representing all structures involved in implementation, including civil society
organizations and financial and technical partners. A final evaluation workshop was held in
Bohicon in June 2011, again with wide participation of actors and stakeholders.

2.25 Capacity Development. Four contractual staff were recruited to support PNLP in project
implementation: a procurement specialist, a financial manager, an accountant and an administrative
assistant. The project also provided substantial short-term training. Five DDS-level staff benefited
from short-term training (epidemiology, malaria case management, and performance-based
management); and one DDS-level staff completed a Master’s degree in epidemiology. Nineteen
staff of PNLP benefitted from short-term training, covering such topics as: epidemiology, results-
based management, procurement of medicines and medical supplies, pharmacovigilance,
management, leadership training, project financial management, project management; and one
PNLP staff received one year of training in public health. Other MoH staff in other technical
departments also benefited from short-term training, notably in: procurement of medicines and
medical supplies (public procurement unit/MoH and CAME); procurement for civil works, supplies
and consultants services (public procurement unit/MoH); and project audit and control
(Inspectorate/MoH).

2.26 Regional Cooperation and Knowledge Sharing. The project financed study tours for PNLP
staff (of which one from the DDS-level) to observe malaria diagnosis and treatment practices in
Brazil. PNLP delegations also participated in semi-annual exchanges organized by the West
African RBM Network (WARN) and in annual meetings of the pharmaceutical groups SANOFI
and NOVARTIS to review and discuss best practices.

2.27 Implementation of the Vector/Pest Management Plan. All three activities planned under this
subcomponent were implemented: (1) the organization of a training workshop for socio-health
actors on the management of pesticides; (2) the organization of a consensus-reaching workshop of
all sectors using pesticides; and (3) the implementation of the management of pests and pesticides
action plan. Implementation of these activities involved: preparation of an action plan; reaching
agreement with all actors using pesticides coming from Health and Rural Development Ministries;
establishment of a pilot committee, created by Ministry of Health arrête on September 14 2009 and
holding of meetings since October 15, 2009; document review on utilization of larvicides;
environmental audit on the treatment of gite larvaires with bio larvicide in Cotonou neighborhoods;
printing of various manuals on management of pests and pesticides; training and launch of village
committees responsible for pest and pesticide management in villages and city neighborhoods in
Benin; surveillance study on the resistance of malaria vectors to pesticides; equipment and material
support to the Mayor of Cotonou for pest and pesticide management; and collection of empty
packaging for distributed LLINs and their placement at a designated site and their ultimate
destruction/disposal by a specialized institution.




                                                40
                                                                                             Annex 3
                                       Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1     No new economic analysis was undertaken at the end of this project, but all of the findings
of the economic analysis undertaken at the time of project design (and captured in Annex 9 of the
PAD) still hold.

3.2     Project achievements notwithstanding, the socio-economic burden of malaria on Benin’s
population is heavy. Malaria is the number one cause of adult morbidity, seriously undermining
productivity and income earning capacity, both at the individual/family levels, and at the macro-
economic level. It is the number one cause of under five mortality; and malaria in pregnant women
contributes to low birth weight, perinatal mortality and maternal mortality. Malaria also causes
indirect costs that affect vulnerable and poor groups most.

3.3     The new treatment drugs (ACTs) are more expensive than the (no longer effective)
chloroquine they are replacing. Still, the package of high-impact prevention and treatment
interventions recommended by WHO for stable endemic malaria20 (and adhered to under Benin’s
malaria policy and strategy) are highly cost effective. They have the potential (demonstrated under
this project) to have an enormous impact on the health of mothers and children, especially, and on
adults, at low cost.

3.4     The analysis of bottlenecks undertaken during project design also still holds, focusing
largely around health systems issues and the ability to reach communities. Over the ensuing five
years, with the support of this project and many other interventions, some headway has been made
on these bottlenecks. But they still constitute an agenda for action, mostly through intensified
health system strengthening efforts, which are ongoing.

3.5         See also paragraphs 72-76 of the main text, which assesses project efficiency.




20
     Such as what is found in Benin.


                                                     41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
             Names                               Title                   Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Hugues Agossou                 Sr Auditor                               IADVP
Itchi Gnon Ayindo              Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
James J. Banda                                                          HDNHE
Suprotik Basu                  Public Health Spec.                      AFTHE
Aissatou Chipkaou              Senior Program Assistant                 AFTHE
Midou Ibrahima                 Country Manager                          AFMCF
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni             Senior Social Development Spec           AFTCS
Tshiya A. Subayi               Operations Officer                       AFTHE
Sylvie Charlotte Ida do Rego   Program Assistant                        AFMBJ
Supervision/ICR
Hugues Agossou                 Sr Auditor                              IADVP
Itchi Gnon Ayindo              Senior Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
John Paul Clark                Sr Technical Spec.                      AFTHE
Alexandre Eyraud               Temporary                               AFMBJ
Mbaye Mbengue Faye             Consultant                              AFTHE
Sourou Gbangbade               Consultant                              AFTHE
Alain Hinkati                  Financial Management Specialis          AFTFM
Daniele A-G. P. Jaekel         Operations Analyst                      AFTHE
Akoko Dorothee Kinde-Gazard    Consultant                              AFTUW
Malonga Miatudila              Consultant                              AFTHE
Africa Eshogba Olojoba         Sr Environmental Spec.                  AFTEN
Mehmet Onur Ozlu               Economist                               AFTUW
Khadidiatou S. Sene            Language Program Assistant              AFRBC
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni             Senior Social Development Spec          AFTCS
Joseph J. Valadez              Consultant                              SASHD
Sylvie Charlotte Ida do Rego   Program Assistant                       AFMBJ


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                  USD Thousands (including
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                            141.93
  FY07                                                                              1.45
  FY08                                                                              0.00
                               Total:                                             143.38
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                              0.00
  FY07                                                                             44.22
  FY08                                                                            141.35
                               Total:                                             185.57


                                                   42
                                                               Annex 5.

                                  Beneficiary Survey Results

No end-of-project beneficiary survey was carried out.




                                                43
                                                                                                                          Annex 6
                                             Stakeholder Workshop Results

 Group A. Grassroots Communities (Mayors, Community malaria workers and)
 Component            Achievements for the community                       Challenges                     Lessons          Comments
                      +Good knowledge of simple and                  +Sensitize communities            +Reduction of
                 severe malaria symptoms and its signs of       sufficiently to eliminate the use   the number of
                 danger.                                        of chloroquine.                     malaria cases         Progressive
                      +Good understanding of the                     +Ensure permanent                 +Increased         transfer of
                 importance of good reception of patients       availability of ACT in health       utilization rate at   skills to
                 and their families, moist wrapping             centers                             public health         communes
                      +Good knowledge of actions to be              +Continue sensitization         centers
                 taken in case of simple and severe malaria     activities with households              +Efficiency of
                 according to the age group the child belong    through all possible channels       activities on the
Care and         to (under six months, refer the child to a     (community radios, NGOs)            ground
Support          public health center ; over six months, give       +Extend community malaria            +The villages
                 ACT in case of simple malaria and respect      workers’ interventions to cover     not affected by the
                 the dosage ; referral in case of severe        all villages                        project are still
                 malaria case).                                     +Support local communities      exposed to the
                     +Availability of subsidized ACT in         in their willingness to back up     disease, which
                 public health centers                          community malaria workers           hinders the
                    +Reflex of the population to contact             +Ease the workload of          achievement of
                 community workers,                             community workers, who are          performance
                                                                overextended in certain health      objectives
                                                                zones
                 Need to sleep under nets                       Increase dissemination of           The distribution of
                                                                prevention strategies through       LLINs during
                 Provision of health centers with SP for        community radios and                CPN services and
                 pregnant women                                 community malaria workers ;         immunization
Prevention                                                                                          sessions leads to a
                 Proper hanging and good use and                Strengthen environmental            better use of
                 maintenance of LLINs in households             sanitation                          health services

                 Home visits
Monitoring &     Home visits                                    Strengthen teams monitoring         Good monitoring
Evaluation                                                      community activities                culminates in a
                 Production and submission of activity                                              good result
                 reports to health centers                      Strengthen supervisions by
                                                                health zones                        Grassroots
                 Evaluation by experts from the World Bank                                          communities
                                                                                                    empowerment is a
                                                                                                    good gage for
                                                                                                    project successs
 NB : In view all these positive impacts, the grassroots community groups wish the project to be renewed by the World Bank in order
 to sustain and strengthen its achievements for the well being of the populations.




                                                                 44
Group B. INTERMEDIARY AND OPERATIONAL LEVELS
COMPONANT                       ACHIEVEMENTS                                CHALLENGES                    LESSON LEARNT
                   -Availability if inputs                         -Take measures to limit stock-outs
                   -Better distribution of inputs at the           -Avoid supplying health centers
                   operational level                               with drugs close to expiration date
                   -Skills development for the various             -Supply malaria community
                   stakeholders at the operational level on the    workers from the store of the
                                                                                                          -Compliance with care
                   new malaria care and support policy             health center they are attached to
                                                                                                          and support protocols
                   (public and private sector workers)             -Scale up the collaborative model
                                                                                                          by service providers
                   - Development of a strategy (collaborative)     of Quality Assurance experienced
Care and support                                                                                          -Challenges related to
                   in the Zou-Collines department for              in the Zou-Collines department by
                                                                                                          supply at CAME
                   compliance with malaria care and support        PISAF under their PMI component
                                                                                                          -Satisfaction of health
                   standards                                       -Ensure permanent availability of
                                                                                                          workers after the RDT
                   -Possibility for biological diagnosis in        RDTs, SPs and LLINs
                   district hospitals and communal health
                   centers
                   -Existence of a form for reporting cases in
                   health centers
                   -Availability of LLINs                          -Intensify actions for hygiene and
                                                                                                          -Populations are drawn
                   -Use of IPT and SP for all pregnant women       sanitation of the environment
                                                                                                          to LLIN distribution
                   in all health centers                           (destruction of mosquito breeding
                                                                                                          points
                   -Several partners’ interest in prevention       sites, weeding, protection of wells,
                                                                                                          -Doubtful reported
                   -Improved knowledge of the cause of             sink holes and tanks, etc.)
                                                                                                          increase of the size of
                   malaria by the community (mosquito
                                                                                                          the household in order
                   instead of the sun, groundnuts, or bad fate,
Prevention                                                                                                to benefit from a
                   etc.)
                                                                                                          greater number of
                   -Communities’ support of the use of LLINs
                                                                                                          LLINs
                   -Free access to LLINs for pregnant women
                                                                                                          -Existence of
                   and 11 month old children receiving
                                                                                                          households without a
                   measles vaccination
                                                                                                          voucher giving access
                   -Early care for fever cases
                                                                                                          to LLINs
                   -Availability of data collection tools in all   -Ensure regular supervision
                   health centers                                  (ownership of this activity by the     -Availability of data on
                   -Filling out and sending of the forms to the    DDS and the management team of         malaria
                   higher level on a monthly basis.                the health district)                   -Use of malaria coaches
                   -Monitoring of data collection by the                                                  initiative for the
                   statistics officer of the district                                                     supervision of the
Suivi Evaluation   -data entry into the SNIGS                                                             Quality Assurance team
                   -Increased use of health services (CPN,                                                members
                   Immunization, etc.)                                                                    -Improvement of the
                   -Contracting with DDS for activities                                                   rate of immunization
                   implementation                                                                         coverage, mainly
                   -Monitoring of NGOs and community                                                      measles
                   radios by DDS and health districts




                                                             45
   Group C. National Level (Cabinet, DNSP, PNLP, DSME, DPMED, CAME)
Component      Achievement                                       Challenges                            Lessons learnt
               -Improvement of ACT availability and other          -Confirm all malaria cases at all   - With the training of stakeholders at
               severe malaria case management inputs at the      levels                                all levels of the health pyramid,
               health center level                               -Preserve quality of care and         populations were offered quality
               -Capacity building for stakeholders at all        permanent availability of malaria     services
Care and
               levels of the health pyramid on malaria           management inputs in the context      -The availability of severe malaria
support
               management                                        of free service delivery              case management kits and the
               -Improvement of the quality of malaria case                                             training of stakeholders have
               management                                                                              contributed to the significant
               -Increase of drug storage capacities                                                    reduction of malaria fatality.
               -Improved availability and use of LLINs by        - Sustain the achievements in         -The involvement of the community
               the general population, especially pregnant       order to reduce malaria mortality     in the implementation of LLIN
               women and children under five                     and morbidity                         distribution activities has been a key
               -Offer of healthcare package integrating          - Implement other strategies to       success factor.
               several sectors (family health, immunization)     complement the use of LLINs           -A good coverage rate was achieved
               -Improved intermittent preventive treatment       (treatment of mosquito larvae         due to free distribution
               with SP for pregnant women                        sites, PID)                           -The provision of services to the
               -Improved access of the population to malaria     - Sustain the achievement in order    vulnerable groups in the population
Prevention
               prevention inputs                                 to reduce mortality and morbidity     -Contracts with NGOs and
               -Increased use of health services (CPN, VAR)                                            community radios has increased
                                                                                                       populations’ level of knowledge of
                                                                                                       malaria and improved the use of
                                                                                                       LLINs
                                                                                                       -The integration of inputs into the
                                                                                                       responsibilities of other programs has
                                                                                                       created efficiencies.
Monitoring     - Capacity building for stakeholders in project   Sustaining the achievement            - The existence of a multidisciplinary
& evaluation   monitoring and evaluation                                                               monitoring committee established
               - Strengthening of monitoring and evaluation                                            and financed by the Bank is a gage of
               and epidemiological surveillance activities                                             success
               - Contribution to quality data collection                                               - Joint evaluations supported by
                                                                                                       partners ensure:
                                                                                                       -efficient implementation;
                                                                                                       -evaluation results that are accepted
                                                                                                       by all stakeholders;
                                                                                                       -quality of data, thanks to the use of
                                                                                                       internationally accepted protocols.




                                                                  46
Final Evaluation Workshop, Bohicon, September 28, 2011
List of Participants
     Name                        Title                                  Base
 1 BOVIS Marcelline              Relais Communautaire                 Zakekere
 2 KPOGBE Toussaint              Relais Communautaire               Sogbelankou
 3 AGBAIZO Julienne              Relais Communautaire                 Adjinakou
 4 EDESSOUN Paul                 Relais communautaire                 Togbadji
 5 GUIDI Sebastien               Directeur Adjoint         Radioi Mino, la voix de Lokossa
 6 DJEVO Clement                 COGECS                                 Tindji
 7 BEKPON C. Georges             COGECS                                Zakpota
 8 ADIDJO Raymond                Relais Communautaire                  Zakpota
 9 GOUGNI Rigobert               CV/ADJIDO                         Adjido/Zakpota
10 FANDOHAN C. Raymond           Directeur Général Royal               Abomey
                                 FM
11 AYEGNON C. Raymond            Sage femme DPMED                 DPMED/Cotonou
12 YAZI M. Assouma               CP. SIANSON ONG                       Parakou
13 TOSSA K. Raymond              CP. FNDH. ONG                         Lokossa
14 KPINSOTON Valentin            CAS/IDE                               Abomey
15 MEVO Kouassi                  Gestionnaire/CAME                 CAME/Cotonou
16 TOWEDJE Z. David              Maire                               Zgbodomey
17 AFFOKPOFI Antoine             Maire                                 Zakpota
18 KINGBE Henri                  CAS/IDE                            Zogbodomey
19 DAHOUNDO Sylvain              Relais Communautaire                  Bohicon
20 AGBANGLA Yves                 MA/PNLP                               Abomey
21 AGBOSSA Bienvenue             Relais Communautaire                Houngome
22 ESPOIR Ayawa                  Relais Communautaire                  Zakpota
23 TOTCHENOU Marceline           Sage femme                        DSME/Cotonou
24 KOSSOUOH Francois             DDS/ZC                                Abomey
25 DJIDONOU K. Justin            MCZS                                   Dassa
26 BELLO CHAKIROU                MCZS                                  Bohicon
27 TCHEHOUNDJE Julien            Relais Communautaire                   Madje
28 SOHOUN Philibert              Relais Communautaire                 Sohounta
29 ADJARO Jeremie                MDE                                  PNLP/MS
30 ALYKO Evelyne                 MDE                                  PNLP/MS
31 ADJIBABI Cherifatou           Pharmacienne                         PNLP/MS
32 DENON Yves Eric               Biologiste                           PNLP/MS
33 WOOD Monica                   Spécialiste IEC/CCC                Consultante
34 VAILLANCOURT Denise           Spécialiste    en   santé        Banque mondiale
                                 publique
35 YOROU CHABI Orou BAGOU        DNSP                              PNLP/Cotonou
36 IMOROU KARIMOU Yacoubou       MDE/CTSTAM                        PNLP/Cotonou
37 AHOLOUKPE Bruno               MDE/PNLP                          PNLP/Cotonou
38 AGBOTON-ZOUMENOU Marie- MDE/PNLP                                PNLP/Cotonou
     Agnes
39 DENAKPO Boniface              Sociologue-                       PNLP/Cotonou
                                 Anthropologue
40 CISSE Aissatou                Secrétaire/PNLP                   PNLP/Cotonou

                                          47
                                                                                            Annex 7
                                  Summary of Borrower’s ICR

7.1    The Borrower’s ICR (Rapport d’achevement du Projet d’Appui a la Lutte contre le
Paludisme Ŕ Don IDA H 229-BEN) was prepared in September 2011 (available for the
September/October ICR Review Mission), and formally submitted to the Bank in early October.
The report was very well prepared, drawing on a strong evidence base, thanks to the successful
M&E activities and outputs, and benefiting from good analysis.

7.2    The report presents an accurate overview of project objectives and components, in sync with
this ICR’s presentation. It notes its strong appreciation of the project design, which allowed the
placement of project management and coordination in the agency responsible for the overall malaria
program (PNLP). This is noted to have provided a unique opportunity for capacity building
through an applied approach.

7.3     For each component the report itemizes: original and actual costs, the main elements of
project support and outcomes. These highlights are not repeated here because they are fully in sync
with the presentation of components in this ICR (Main Text and Annex 2). These data are based on
detailed itemization and costs that were available at the level of the PNLP (and reviewed by the ICR
mission). This report quickly reviews procurement and financial management implementation, and
raises difficulties caused by delays in approvals and contract signatures attributable to the National
Tender Board and MoEF. Based on project and program data generated by the strong M&E work,
the Borrower’s report provides actual data against original and revised targets for each key
performance indicator. Again, because outcome data were reviewed by the mission and reflected in
the Main Text, outcomes will not be repeated here.

7.4      The following paragraphs provides some highlights of evaluative comments included in the
Borrower’s ICR. First, the project was found to have truly boosted the implementation of Benin’s
national malaria policy. With regard to prevention, it brought a dynamism to the decentralization of
activities right to the community level, and with the active support and involvement of health zones
and NGOs and local radio stations, with very encouraging, tangible results. Likewise, a new
dynamism was also introduced to case management efforts, also with tangible results. The project
also contributed to health systems strengthening.

7.5     Second, the role of the Bank was highly appreciated, especially for: its multi-disciplinary
teams, its close collaboration with WHO and other RBM partners, the close and rigorous follow-up
and support of the Cotonou-based TTL. Third, factors facilitating project implementation included:
strong Government commitment; the integration of the project into the work/mandate of the PNLP;
the personnel, logistical and material support to PNLP to help it do its job; and the good partnership
within and beyond MoH to implement malaria policy and strategy. Fourth, factors constraining
project implementation included: delays in non-objections from DNMP; delays in the signature of
the LLINs contract; delays in launching the ACT activities; issues of stockage of inputs; occasional
strikes of health workers; delays in procurements due to delays in approvals (by National Tender
Board) and signatures (by MoEF); and delays in preparing Terms of Reference for studies and
technical specifications.

7.6      Fifth, the quality of relations between the Bank and the Government were satisfactory,
attributable to the commitment of both parties to the PDOs. Sixth, the quality of the various
institutions, research/study bureaus and consultants, who contributed to the project, was found to be
                                                 48
good. Collaborators included: the University’s Faculty of Science (FCC), the Center for
Entomological Research of Cotonou (CREC), the Regional Institute for Public Health (ISRP),
among others. PNLP stated that it gained valuable knowledge and experience through these
collaborations.

7.7     Seventh, the importance of maintaining and further strengthening gains made under this
project is emphasized. This will require Government support as well as technical and financial
support from partners. On the M&E front, there is need to continue efforts to strengthen the
information system to ensure timely availability of quality data with a view to better program
management, stronger oversight of program performance and adjustments to efforts in this light.
Additional resources are necessary to this end.

7.8    The Borrower’s ICR concludes by stating that the project’s objectives have been achieved,
which explains the declining trends in mortality, especially among children under five years of age.
Momentum can only be assured with continued support both to maintain gains and to further extend
the coverage of interventions. The Bank’s technical and financial support is strongly solicited as
GoB      embarks      on    the     implementation       of    its   new     NSP       (2011-2015).




                                                49
                                                                                             Annex 8

                        Comments of Roll Back Malaria (RBM) Partners

8.1     On September 29, 2011, the ICR mission organized a meeting of RBM Partners to solicit
their views on the performance of the Benin Malaria Control Support Project. The meeting was
chaired by Dr. Marie-Agnes Agboton-Zoumenou, Coordinator, PNLP, and attended by key
members of her staff and representatives of: AFRICARE, Catholic Relief Services, Belgian
Cooperation, PSI, UNFPA, UNICEF, the United States Centers for Disease Control, USAID, and
WHO. This note synthesizes strong consensus among the partners on a number of points: (1) the
overall success of the project and, more broadly, of Benin’s national malaria control program over
the past five years; (2) concerns about the sustainability of achievements and the need for continued
support, especially with regard to health systems strengthening; and (3) the very strong coordination
and collaboration among RBM partners and opportunities for continued and enhanced efforts to this
end. A brief overview of each of these points is presented below.

8.2     Successful Outcome. All partners appreciated the PNLP’s presentation of performance
against project targets, all of which were essentially achieved (with some targets exceeded). (See
also Section 3 of this ICR.) These included increased coverage (to at least 60 percent) of target
groups (children under 5 and pregnant women) with essential prevention and care interventions.
Both technical and managerial capacities were developed with program/project assistance. The
PNLP and all partners acknowledged that these achievements are not solely attributable to the
Bank-financed project. Rather they are attributable to the collective efforts of all partners
supporting Benin’s PNLP. This being said, the value added of the Bank’s support was easily
distinguished. The Bank was the first to finance the provision of major commodities to enable the
nationwide launch/implementation of Benin’s new malaria strategy: ACTs, RDTs, SP and LLINs.
The Bank’s financial support and the PNLP’s good performance attracted other major sources of
support, USAID/PMI an important example. The Bank’s role in building the capacity of the PNLP
in the areas of program strategic management and oversight, coordination of aid, procurement,
financial management, results-based M&E and technical rigor in supervision was duly
acknowledged. This support was provided by the pro-activity of the Cotonou-based task team
leader, complemented by the rigor and regularity of a multi-disciplinary team, which supervised the
project, in close consultation with PNLP and its partners, and left instructive aide-memoires to
guide the follow-up and improvement measures. It was also grounded in the design of the project
which opted out of a PIU approach and, instead, made the PNLP responsible for project
management.

8.3     Challenges of Sustainability and Health Systems Strengthening. There is great concern
about the ability to sustain the gains achieved under the project and program during the last five
years. This will depend on continued support to the PNLP, in terms of commodities, and in terms
of activities, both preventive (behavior change promotion, mass campaigns for new cohorts) and
treatment-related (quality assurance, including training, supervision). It will also involve continued
support to strategic management and oversight, which are the regular, operational responsibilities of
PNLP at all levels of the system, including: costs of program management, communications,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and the use of these data for decision-making and
overseeing accountability. As one speaker so aptly put it, sustainability does not mean just to
continue what was done in the past, but, rather to build on what was done and to change to a second
phase of improvement and health systems strengthening. Indeed, there was strong consensus that
not only is health systems strengthening critical to the continued improvement and sustainable
                                                  50
success of the PNLP. Malaria control interventions can actually be an entry point to a more
rigorous, more holistic health systems strengthening approach. While acknowledging that many
RBM partners have the capacity and the opportunity to provide much of what is needed both in
terms of program-specific and health systems strengthening support, the Bank’s already
demonstrated value-added, especially in terms of capacity building, was considered to be essential
to future success. One important challenge of health system strengthening, which was cited as
needing attention, is the fuller utilization of data for decision-making at the operational level.

8.4     Strengthened Partnerships and Aid Coordination. Benin’s RBM partners are very well
coordinated, with considerable evidence to substantiate this: excellent coordination/collaboration
around M&E and research/evaluation studies; joint support to the 2011 mass campaign, drawing on
comparative advantages; coordination and complementarity in the timing and provision of malaria
commodities; monthly meetings between PNLP and RBM partners, with productive technical and
strategic discussions; and joint annual planning and review meetings. It was also noted that there is
room for improved coordination. One activity, considered to be critical to strengthened
coordination and partnership, is the detailed mapping of all malaria support and interventions
provided by each partner in each locality. Some work is underway to this end, but it needs to be
both detailed and comprehensive in order to facilitate improved coordination and achieve greater
efficiency of all support.




                                                 51
                                                                                                                  Annex 9
                                     Achievement against Project Targets

Impact on Malaria Mortality
Indicator                              Baseline Value          Original      Formally        Actual Value        Efficacy
                                       (2006,                  Target        Revised         Achieved at
                                       SIRP/PNLP)              Values        Targets         Completion
                                                               (DGA)                         (2009,
                                                                                             SIRP/PNLP)
Annual number of reported deaths                1,432                -            -               936             Decline of
due to malaria (all ages)                                                                                           35%
Annual number of reported deaths                1,133                -            -                767            Decline of
due to malaria (children < 5)                                                                                       32%
Case fatality rate (all ages) (per               13                  -            -                 7            Decline of
10,000 cases)                                                                                                    45%
Case fatality rate (children <5)                 24                  -            -                14            Decline of
                                                                                                                 42%

Outcome #1: Improved case management and treatment access and use
Indicator                             Baseline          Original          Formally    Actual Value at            Efficacy
                                      Value             Target Values     Revised     Completion
                                                        (DGA)             Targets
% children < 5 years with fever            25%            At least 50%     At least     47% @ community             Revised
treated with an effective              (DHS 2006)             (DGA)         30%               level                  target
antimalarial within 24 hours          (definition of                                    (PNLP Performance         exceeded;
from onset of symptoms               “effective anti-                                   Review, April 2011)         original
                                        malarial?                                              25%                   target
                                        included                                           (MIS, 2010)           substantiall
                                      chloroquine)                                                                y achieved
% children < 5 years seen at an            48%                60%             -         95% in health centers       Target
outpatient health facility with           (PAD)              (PAD)                       (PNLP Performance         exceeded
febrile disease treated with an                                                          Review, April 2011)
effective antimalarial
Number of simple malaria cases          365,852                -              -               482,669             Increase of
reported by health facilities (<         (2006,                                          (2006, SIRP/PNLP)           30%
5s)                                   SIRP/PNLP)
Number of severe malaria cases          108,576                -              -               76,493              Decline of
reported by health facilities (<         (2006,                                          (2006, SIRP/PNLP)          30%
5s)                                   SIRP/PNLP)
% health workers trained to use             -                 75%             -                > 90%               Target
ACTs for older children and                                  (PAD)                                                exceeded
adults
Number of ACT treatments                    0           Program target:       -       Project acquired &               -
distributed to the health zone)                         13.5 million                  distributed 25.3
per 10,000 population                                   ACT packages.                 million ACT
                                                        No specific                   treatments; other
                                                        project target                partners also
                                                                                      provided ACTs.
Percentage of health facilities      No ACTs @          Project targets       -       88% health facilities            -
with no ACT stock-out in the last    outset             not specified;                reported no ruptures
3 months                                                Program: 80%                  in ACTs and 79%
                                                                                      reported no ruptures
                                                                                      in RDTs of > 1 week
                                                                                      during previous 3 mo.




Outcome #2: Improved Protection of Pregnant Women against Malaria
Indicator                              Baseline         Original          Formally      Actual Value            Efficacy
                                                             52
                                          Value            Target               Revised       Achieved at
                                                           Values               Target        Completion
                                                                                Values
% pregnant women who received                 25%           At least 50%            -                47%            Original
two or more doses of IPTp will            (DHS 2006)            (DGA)                               (PNLP            target
have increased to at least 50%                 3%                                                Performance      substantially
                                          (DHS 2006,                                             Review, April      achieved
                                          according to                                              2011)
                                              MIS)                                                   46%
                                                                                                  (MIS, 2010)
Percentage of health facilities with           -           Project targets                    90% of facilities
no SPs stock-out in the last 3                             not specified;                     reported no
months                                                     Program: 80%                       ruptures
                                                               (PAD)                          exceeding 1 week
                                                                                              during previous 3
                                                                                              months


Outcome #3: Improved Bednet Access and Use by Target Groups
Indicator                                      Baseline       Original            Formally       Actual Value     Efficacy
                                               Value          Target              Revised        Achieved at
                                                              Values              Target         Completion
% households with at least one                   25%           Increase of at     At least 70%         74%           Original
ITN/LLIN                                      (DHS 2006)         least 20%                         (SIRP/PNLP         target
                                                                    above                             2011)         exceeded;
                                                                  baseline                             40%           revised
                                                                 (i.e., 45%)                        (MIS 2010)        target
                                                                    (DGA)                                         substantially
                                                                                                                    achieved
% of children <5 who slept under an                 20%        At least 50%       At least 60%        64%            Original
LLIN/ITN in the night preceding the                (DHS)           (DGA)                           (MIS 2010)         target
survey                                                                                                              exceeded;
                                                                                                                     revised
                                                                                                                      target
                                                                                                                  substantially
                                                                                                                    achieved
% pregnant women who slept under an                 20%        At least 50%       At least 60%        60%            Original
LLIN/ITN in the night preceding the                (DHS)           (DGA)                           (MIS 2010)         target
survey                                                                                                              exceeded;
                                                                                                                     revised
                                                                                                                      target
                                                                                                                  substantially
                                                                                                                    achieved
Number of LLINs/ITNs distributed to                  -        Project target:                    Project          Target
the health zone                                                 2.2 million                      provided 3.6     exceeded.
                                                                 Program                         million
                                                                target: 10
                                                                  million
                                                                  (PAD)
Percentage of health facilities with no              -        Project targets                    USAID/PMI
LLIN stock-out in the last 3 months                           not specified;                     provision of
                                                              Program: 80%                       LLINs and TA
                                                                  (PAD)                          for stock
                                                                                                 management
                                                                                                 minimize
                                                                                                 stockouts




Output 4: Improved Program Management Capacity
Indicator                                      Baseline       Original             Formally      Actual Value     Efficacy

                                                                53
                                           Value        Target           Revised   Achieved at
                                                        Values           Target    Completion
                                                                         Values
National M&E framework for an                 No        By the time of                           Achieved, but
effective M&E developed and endorsed      framework         MTR                                  after MTR
by MoH
The M&E Operational Plan is                No M&E                                                Achieved
implemented                               operational
                                             plan
Prioritized and costed annual work plan    No joint                                              Achieved,
developed, after approved annual joint      annual                                               starting in
reviews, using M&E data (November            work                                                2009
annually)                                  program
                                           based on
                                           M&E data
Country program reflects lessons               -                                                 Lessons from
learned from other country programs                                                              international
                                                                                                 experience
                                                                                                 gleaned from
                                                                                                 meetings and
                                                                                                 training
                                                                                                 shared
                                                                                                 among PNLP
                                                                                                 staff.




                                                         54
Comparing WHO 2010 Malaria Report Data with PNLP Data
Indicators                                    2005              2006       2007            2008            2009
Number of cases (all age groups)
Probable and confirmed cases                803,462           861,847  1,171,522     1,147,005        1,256,708
(same numbers also given for
suspected cases)
Nombre total de cas de paludisme            926,502         1,086,418  1,209,364     1,173,985        1,283,508
chez toutes les tranches d’age
(PNLP data, Bruno, 12/02)
Number of deaths (all age groups)
Reported malaria deaths                          322            1,226      1,290             918          1,375
Nombre de deces dus au                        2,055             1,432      1,346             918             936
paludisme chez toutes les
tranches d’age
Case fatality rate (per 10,000 cases)
Calculated on basis of WHO data:                4.01            14.23      11.01            8.00          10.94
reported malaria deaths divided
by reported (probable and
confirmed cases) x 10,000
Letalite due au paludisme (pour               22.18             13.18      11.12            7.81            7.29
10,000 cas)
Sources: WHO World Malaria Report 2010 (data shown in regular font); and PNLP’s malaria information system,
based on health facility reporting (data shown in italics).




                                                      55
                                                                                            Annex 10
List of Persons Met
Benin

Cotonou
Ministry of Health

Office of the Minister
   Dorothée A. KINDE GAZARD, Ministre de la Santé
   Yacoubou IMOROU KARIMOU, Conseiller, Santé de Travail (ancien Coordonnateur PNLP pendant 3
    ans

Office of the Director of Cabinet
   Docteur Marie Rose NAGO, Pédiatre, Directrice de Cabinet

Secretariat General
   DocteurValere Goyito, Secrétaire Général du Ministère

Direction de la Programmation et de la Prospective
   AKPAMOLI Alphonse D., DirecteurAdjoint de la Programmation et de la Prospective (jusqu’au 21
    septembre 2011), Coordonnateur Programme Renforcement du système de la santé (RSS) (à partir du 22
    septembre 2011)
   Hoteyi A. Mathilde, SEP/DPP
   Alakpo A. Sanoussi, SGSI/DPP
   Kessou Daniel Abalo, SC, DPP
   Akpamagbo Clément, SP/DPP
   do Rego, Dominique, CSE, DPP
   Amoussou Raymond, DAPP/DBB

Direction des Pharmacies, du Médicament et des Explorations Diagnostiques
   Loko Frederic, Directeur

DNSP
   Dr Orou Bagou YOROU CHABI, Directeur National de la Santé Publique (DNSP)

Direction de la Santé de la Mère et de l’Enfant (DSME)
   Dr. Olga Agbohoui-Houinato, Pediatre, Directrice DSME

Agence Nationale de Vacination –Soins de Santé Primaires [ancien Programme Elargi de
Vaccination (PEV)]
   Dr N’Déye Marie BASSABI-ALLADJI, Directrice :

Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme (PNLP)
   Marie-Agnès AGBOTON-ZOUMENOU, Médecin de Santé Publique, Paludologue, Coordonnatrice du
    PNLP
   DENON Yves Eric Donan, Coordonnateur Adjoint
   ADJIBABI B. Cherifatou, Chef Service Pharmacie, Pharmacovigilance
   AHOLOUKPE N. Bruno, Chef Service Suivi Evaluation
   OKE Mariam, Chef Service Surveillance Epidémiologique
                                                   56
   CHAFFA Evelyne, Chef Service Lutte Anti Vectorielle Intégrée
   ADJARO Boukari Jeremie, Chef Service Information, Education et Communication
   TOKPONON T. Filemon, Service Lutte Anti Vectorielle Intégrée
   TOHUNGODO Geoffroy Dominique, Chef Service Financier et Comptable
   DENAKPO Boni Y. Dessowu, Chef Service Interventions à Base Communautaire Partenariat-Plaidoyer
   ADOGNON C.A. Dede Larissa, Chef Service Secrétariat Administratif
   GNINTOUNGBE E. Eve, Service Prise en Charge des Cas et Traitement Préventif Intermittent
   ANANI Kouessi, Service Laboratoire et Chimiosensibilité
   AKAKPO Evelyne J. Cossiba, Service Lutte Antivectorielle Intégrée
   FASSINOU Hector, Service Lutte Antivectorielle Intégrée
   SIANOU Antoine, Service Laboratoire et Chimiosensibilité
   AKOUETE A. Julienne, Service Communication
   VIAKINNOU Coffi Alexandre Rodrigue, Magasin PNLP
   HABIBOU Florent, Chef Service Administratif et Logistique
   AGBAKOU Félix, Gestionnaire du PALP
   MEVO Valéry, Spécialiste en passation des marchés

Centrale d’Achat des Médicaments Essentiels et Consommables Médicaux (CAME)
   Emmanuel Yaovi TOSSOU, Pharmacien, Responsable Unité de Gestion des Programmes Spécifiques

International Development Partners

Africare
   Josette Vignon Makong, MD, MPH, Directrice Pays, Africare-Bénin/Côte d’Ivoire
   Dr. Rachade Zime NAKOU, Pharmacien, Spécialiste en Gestion des Achats et Stocks
   Ahmed Rachid Moustapha, Responsable Financier
   HOUNNANKAN Cossi Athanase, MD/MPH, Eco Santé, Chargé de projet

Catholic Relief Services
   Christophe Droeven, Représentant Résident, Programme du Bénin et du Togo
   Dr. Seraphin Yaovi VISSOH, MD, MPH, Socio-Anthropologue

PSI
       Megan Wilson, Directrice Adjoint-Programmes
       Njara RAKOTONIRINA, Responsable de Département Santé Maternelle et Infantile
       Bienvenu Wakpo, Coordonnateur Programme Paludisme

United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
   Hortense Désirée KOSSOU, Spécialiste Santé (Développement des Politiques et Stratégies) et ancienne
    Coordonnatrice, PNLP de 2005 à 2008 (ans)
   Gilbert VISSOH, Spécialiste Santé/PCIME

United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
   Theodore Soudé, Représentant Assistant

United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
   Milton B. Amayun, MD, MPH, Family Health Team Leader
   Abdou Salam Gueye, MD, MPH, PHD, President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI)/Centers for Disease Control
    and Prevention (CDC), Resident Advisor, PMI/Benin
   Cheryl Combest, Technical Assistant to USAID

                                                   57
World Bank
   Fily d’Almeida, Task Team Leader, Projet d’Appui à la Lutte contre le Paludisme

World Health Organization
   Akpa Raphael GBARY, Dr Med, PhD, Resident Representative

Département de Borgou/Alibori

Direction Départementale de la Santé, Parakou
   Dr. Fatioulaye ISSA DJIBRIL, Directeur Départemental de la Santé
   Dr GADO Kora : Chef du Service Protection et Promotion Sanitaires
   Gnimavo Dominique, Infirmier, Cellule, PNLP
   Ezin Raymond, Assistant Social, Cellule, PNLP

Zone Sanitaire de Tchaourou
   Dr A?FA Joachim :Médecin coordonnateur de la Zone Sanitaire
   Dr FADONOUGBO Xavier Médecin chef de Tchaourou
   M. DJINAHIN Félicien : responsable de la statistique et technicien de laboratoire
   MAMA SOUMOU Fousséni : Charge de la mobilisation sociale
   ADOUNVO Gélase : Chargé de l’Administration et des Ressources

Centre de Santé, Tchatchou
   M. SRACE Lucien : Infirmier Major, responsable du dispensaire
   Mme GOURMA Barakatou : Sage femme
   Président/Comité de Développement de l’Arrondissement
   Président, Comité de Gestion (COGES)
   M. SOULE Tarouwèrè, Membre, COGECS
   Aide soignant
   Animatrice
   ONG contractuelle pour l’appui communautaire

Département de Zou-Collines
Direction Départementale de la Sante, Abomey
   Dr KOSSOUHO François, Directeur Departemental de la Santé, Abomey
   Dr. Agbangbla, Yves, Cellule PNLP

Centre de Santé, Commune de Zakpota
   Dr Serge TOUDONOU: Médecin chef, Centre de Santé
   M. TCHANHOU Cosme : Infirmier, Centre de Santé
   Mme DEGBEGNI Adèle : Sage femme, Centre de Santé
   M. GNONLONFOUN junior et M. Denis AKOUTEY : Equipe de laboratoire, Centre de Santé
   Relais communautaire (3) : Mme BOVIS Marcelline, M. KPOGBE Toussaint et Mme AGBA?ZO
    Julienne
   Membres du COGECS : M. DJEVO Clément, M. BEKPON Georges et M. ADODJO Raymond

Workshop Participants, Hotel Nifur, Bohicon
There were forty participants to this workshop, including substantial representation from
community-level, civil society, elected officials, operational-level service providers and managers,
                                                    58
as well as central-level MoH staff. List of participants is provided in the Stakeholder Workshop
Results Annex.

Senegal, Dakar

   Christophe Lemière, Task Team Leader, Benin Health Systems Performance Project


U.S.A., Washington

   John Paul Clark, Senior Technical Specialist, World Bank, AFTHE




                                                  59
                                                                                          Annex 11
                                List of Supporting Documents


European Union

Conseil Sante Consortium. 2011. “Etude sur les Comptes Nationaux de la Sante 2008 Ŕ Benin,?
Rapport final. Janvier.

République du Bénin

Institut National de la Statistique et de l’Analyse Economique (INSAE) [Benin] et Macro
International, Inc. 2007. “Enquête Démographique et de Sante, Benin 2006: Rapport de
Synthèse,? Calverton, Maryland, USA: INSAE et Macro International. Décembre.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2011. “Transmission des
indicateurs de fin de projet.? 25 Aout.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2011. “Plan Stratégique National
de Lutte contre le Paludisme: 2011 Ŕ 2015.? (Draft 1) Juillet.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2011. “Plan Stratégique National
de Lutte contre le Paludisme au Benin 2006-2010 Ŕ Etude des stratégies de pérennisation des
acquis de la mise en œuvre du plan stratégique 2006-2010.? Par Dr. Nuons Assomption,
Consultant sous financement de la Banque Mondiale. Mai.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2011. “Revue de Performance du
PNLP.? Aide-Memoire. Mars.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2009. “Plan intègre des activités
de la lute contre le paludisme pour l’année 2009 au Benin.? (produit avec l’appui technique et
financier de PISAF Ŕ Projet Intègre de Sante Familiale, et exécuté par URC – University Research
Corporation – avec Abt Associates, under USAID Cooperative Agreement). Mars.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2006. “Plan de suivi et
d’évaluation du plan strategique de lute contre le paludisme au Benin 2006-2010.? Décembre.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2006. “Budget du Projet d’Appui a
la Lutte contre le Paludisme (Booster Program for Malaria Control).? 20 Novembre.



                                               60
République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2006. “Résumé du Projet de Plan
Stratégique de Lutte contre le Paludisme au Benin National 2006-2010.? Février.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Direction Nationale de la Protection
Sanitaire, Programme National de Lutte Contre le Paludisme. 2005. “Politique Nationale de
Lutte contre le Paludisme et Cadre Stratégique de Mise en Œuvre.? Novembre.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Secrétariat General du Ministère, Direction
de la Programmation et de la Prospective, Service de la Gestion du système d’Information. 2010.
“Plan Stratégique de Renforcement du Systeme National d’Information et de Gestion Sanitaires
2011-2015,? Décembre.

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Secrétariat General du Ministère, Direction
de la Programmation et de la Prospective. 2009 (?). “Plan National de Développement Sanitaire
(2009-2018).

République du Benin, Ministère de la Sante Publique, Secrétariat General du Ministre, Direction
de la Programmation et de la Prospective. 2009. “Rapport sur l’Etat de la Sante au Benin en
2008.? Appuyé par la Confédération Suisse. 1ère édition. Décembre.

République du Benin, Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances. 2010. “Réallocation des fonds du
Don IDA et réajustement de certains indicateurs de performance dans le cadre du Projet d’Appui à
la Lutte contre le Paludisme (PALP).? Avril.

UNICEF

Bureau d’études et de soutien aux technologies en santé et développement. 2010. “Etude sur la
cartographie des interventions et intervenants en Sante Maternelle Néonatal et Infantile (SMNI), y
compris la communication pour le développement au Benin.? Avec l’appui de l’UNICEF. Rapport
provisoire. Version 2. Décembre.

USAID

Plan International, Abibou Mamadou and Modeste Anato. 2009. “Collaborative Approach to
Community-based Malaria Prevention in Benin.? National Conference/Final Evaluation Report.
Financed by USAID/Health Care Improvement Project. August.

USAID. (No date). “President’s Malaria Initiative Benin Malaria Operational Plan FY2011.?

USAID. 2011. “Audit of USAID/Benin’s Implementation of the President’s Malaria Initiative,?
Audit Report No. 7-680-11-004-P, February 14.

Aide-Memoires (series)

ISRs (series)

World Bank


                                                61
World Bank. 2011. “Annonce mission de préparation du rapport d’achèvement PALP.? Lettre. 8
Aout.

World Bank. 2011. “Projet d’Appui a la Lutte contre le Paludisme au Benin/PALP Ŕ (H229-BEN)
Préparation du Rapport d’Achèvement? Guidelines for Government to prepare ICR. January 10.

World Bank. 2010. Letter to Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances. “Projet d’Appui a la Lutte
contre le Paludisme (Don H229-BEN) Prorogation de la Date de Clôture du Projet,? September
14.

World Bank. 2010. “Restructuring Data Sheet,? July 23.

World Bank. 2010. “Restructuring Paper for Benin: Malaria Control Support Project – P096482.?
Memorandum. July 21.

World Bank. 2010. “Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Benin Malaria
Control Support Project Grant H229-BEN, Republic of Benin.? Health, Nutrition and Population
(AFTHE), Africa Region, July 21.

World Bank. 2010. “Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2) Final Report,? July 19.

World Bank. 2010. Letter to Minister of Economy and Finance. “Benin – Projet d’Appui a la
Lutte contre le Paludisme (Don H229-BEN) Réallocation de fonds et amendements aux indicateurs-
clés de performance du Projet,? 28 Avril.

World Bank. 2010. “Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Benin Malaria
Control Support Project Grant H229-BEN Republic of Benin,? April 27.

World Bank. 2010. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed IDA Grant in the Amount of SDR
14.9 million (US$22.8 million equivalent) of which SDR 5.1 million originates from Pilot CRW
Resources (US$7.8 million equivalent) to the Republic of Benin for a Health System Performance
Project.? April 9.
World Bank. 2009. “Republic of Benin Health, Nutrition and Population, Health & Poverty
Analytical Report,? Carried out jointly with Ministry of Public Health, with the support of the
Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), UNICEF and the French Ministry of
Foreign and European Affairs (MAEE), May.

World Bank. 2009. “Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Benin for the Period FY09-
12,? Country Department for Benin, Africa Region. January 30.

World Bank. 2006. Incoming letter from MS/PNLP. “Budget du Projet d’Appui a la Lutte contre
le Paludisme (Booster Program for Malaria Control). November.

World Bank. 2006. “Development Grant Agreement (Malaria Control Support Project) between
Republic of Benin and International Development Association,? November 9.

World Bank. 2006. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant in the Amount of SDR
21.60 million (US$31 million equivalent) to the Republic of Benin for a Malaria Control Support
Project,? Human Development II, Africa Region, May 3.

                                               62
World Bank/Banque Mondiale. 2005. “Projet Booster de Lutte contre le Paludisme au Benin,
Programme de gestion des dechets issus des soins de santé, Rapport final,? par Mbaye Mbengue
Faye et Andre Soton, Janvier.

WHO

World Health Organization. 2010. “Guidelines for the Treatment of Malaria,? Second Edition.

Other

d’Almeida et al. 2011. Parasites & Vectors. “Field evaluation of the intermittent preventive
treatment of malaria during pregnancy (IPTp) in Benin: evolution of the coverage rate since its
implementation,? June 16.

“Protocol d’Accord de Compact entre le Gouvernement de la Republique du Benin et les
Partenaires Technique et Financiers relative a la Mise en Oeuvre du PTD 2010-2012 en vue
d’Atteindre les Objectifs du Millenaire pour le Developpement,? signe par: le Ministre de la Sante,
le Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances, et les Representants de: l’OMS, l’UNICEF, l’UNFPA,
l’Ambassade de Belgique au Benin, et la Banque Mondiale. (IHP+), 2010. (Hard copy only)

“Vector/Pest Management Plan? , Executive Summary. Benin Malaria Control Support Project.
(No date).




                                                 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33372
0                                  1E                                                        2E                                                         3E                                                        4E
                                                                                                                                                                            To                      To
                                                                                                                                                                           Dosso                   Sokoto

                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                        IG
                                                                                                                                                          ER
                                                                                                                                                               RI
                                                                                                                                                                           NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                 VE
                                                                                                                                                                    R

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12N
                                                               BURKINA




                                                                                                                     u
                       BENIN
                                                                FASO




                                                                                                                       ro
                                                                                                                                                                        Malanville




                                                                                                                   Mék
                                                                       Pendjari

                                                                                                                                       Alibori
                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                  ta                                        Kandi
               To                                                                            n
             Dapaong                                                                     u




                                                                                                                                                                           Sota
                                                                                     o

                                                                          ri
    11N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11N


                                                                       nja
                                                                                M                                                   ALIBORI
                                                                     Pa




                                                                                              u
                                                                                            ro
                                                                                          ék
                                                                                         M
                                                         ra
                                                     o    ATA K O R A
                                                 k
                                            ta
                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kainji
                                        Natitingou
                                                                                                                    Bembéréké




                                                                                                                                                    é
                                                                                                                                                  sin
                                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                 Ta
                       Koum
                           ong
                              ou
10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10N



                                                                        Djougou
                                                                                                        O                     BORGOU
                                                                                                           ué
                                                                                                              mé
                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                          Kaiama
                                                                                                                                           ra
                                                                                                                                           pa




                                     To
                                                                                                                                      Ok




                                    Kabou
                                                              DONGA
                                                                                                        Alpouro




                                                                                                                   Parakou




9N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9N


                         TOGO

                                                                                                                                                                                   0     20        40       60         80    100 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                                                                   0          20             40             60 Miles
      GHANA
                                                                                         COLLINES
                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
8N                                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information      8N
                                                                                              Savalou                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                     Zou                 Dassa-                                                                                                   1E
                                                                                                         Zoumé
                                                                                                                     émé
                                                                                                                   Ou




                                                                                                                        PLATEAU                                                                     BENIN
                                                                           Cou
                                                                            o
                                                                            o




                                                                                          Z O U
                                                                               ffo
                                                                                 o
                                                                                 o




                                                                                  Abomey                    Cové
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                              COUFFO                               Bohicon
                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
7N                                                                                                                                  Pobé                            7N
                                             To
                                                                               Aplahoué                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                            Notsé
                                                                                Dogbo
                                                                                                                            OUEME
                                                                                                                            OUEME
                                                                                                                            OUEME




                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
     Lake
     Volta                                                                                                                             Sakété             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAIN ROADS
                                                                        MONO                                                                            Ibadan
                                                                               Lokossa
                                                                                             ATLANTIQUE                                                                                            RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                      PORTO NOVO                                                   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                               Mon
                                                                                o
                                                                                oo




                                                               To
                                                              Lomé                                 Ouidah Cotonou                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                     LITTORAL                                           BIGHT OF BENIN
0                                  1E                                                        2E   Gulf of Guinea                                        3E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECEMBER 2005
