Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13918
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN PROJECT
(LOAN 2919-ME)
JANUARY 26, 1995
Mexico Country Operations and Environment Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit (until 12/31/92) = Mexican Pesos (Mex$) = 100 cents
Currency Unit (beginning 1/1/93) = Mexican New Pesos (MexN$) = 1,000 old Pesos
Average Exchange Rates
1984                 US$1 =                  167.8
1985                 US$1 =                 257.0
1986                 US$1 =                 611.8
1987                 US$1 =                1,378.2
1988                 US$1 =                2,273.1
1989                 US$1 =                2,261.7
1990                 US$1 =                2,821.0
1991                US$1 =                 3,020.5
1992                US$1 =                 3,094.7
1993                 US$1 =            MexN$ 3.1
1994 (June)         US$1 =             MexN$ 3.3
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
CNA                  Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
(National Water Commission)
EIA                  Environmental Impact Assessment
FERTIMEX             Fertilizantes Mexicanos
FSAL                 Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan
GOM                  Government of Mexico
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
PCR                  Project Completion Report
PECE                 Pacto de Estabilizati6n y Crecimiento
(Economic Stabilization and Growth Pact)
PEMEX                Petr6leos Mexicanos
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR                  Special Drawing Right
SEDESOL              Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social
(Ministry of Social Development)
SEDUE                Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologfa (Ministry of Urban Development
and Ecology)
SEMIP                Secretarfa de Energfa, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (Ministry of Energy,
Mines and Parastatal Industry)
SHCP                 Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit)
SOE                  State-Owned Enterprise
TPY                  Tons per Year
UAN                  Urea-Ammonium Nitrate



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mexico
Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan Project
(Loan 2919-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan
Project (Loan 2919-ME) prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. No Part II
was submitted by the Borrower.
The objective of the project was to restore competitiveness in the fertilizer sector. The project
design was innovative. Based on extensive sector work, it combined sector policy reforms with
investment for rationalization of operations. The policy program included elimination of price subsidies,
closure of uneconomic plants, and reform of the fertilizer distribution system.
The policy component was fully implemented, although with initial delays. As a result,
production increased from about 1.6 million tons of nutrients in 1986 to 2 million in 1990. Despite
sharp increases in prices, domestic demand remained at about 1.8 million tons, and the supply/demand
balance showed a surplus during 1990-91. While not an original objective of the project, privatization
started in 1991, and is about to be completed. The investment program was implemented with
substantial adjustments to reflect changes of priorities during restructuring and privatization.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its institutional
development impact as substantial.
The PCR is of very good quality. It provides a full account of project implementation and
outcomes, and includes detailed statistical evidence on sector development and beneficiary enterprise
performance.
An audit is not planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXtCO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2919 ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE . ....................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ...........................................                                                                         ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THtE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Project Identity              ............................................                                                        1
2.  Background . .................................................  1
World Bank and IMF  Roles in Mexico's Adjustment ........................                                                        2
The Fertilizer Sector at Appraisal  ....................................                                                         3
Fertilizer Sector Development Following Loan Approval   .....................                                                    4
3.       Project Objectives and  Description   ..................................                                                         5
Project Objectives .                  .............................................  5
Project Description .                 .............................................  5
4.      Project Design and  Organization   ...................................                                                            6
Project Design  ................................................                                                                 6
Project Coordination  ............................................                                                               6
Organization of Rehabilitation and Investments Projects   ......................                                                 6
Organization of Studies   ..........................................                                                             7
5.       Project Implementation    .........................................                                                              7
A.  Policy Program   Implementation  ....................................                                                             7
Implementation  Schedule  .........................................                                                              7
The Policy Program    ............................................                                                               8
(a)     Prices of Fertilizer  .....................................                                                     8
(b)     Prices of Fertilizer Raw  Materials   ...........................                                               9
(c)  Links between PEMEX and FERTIMEX for Ammonia and Urea
Production ..........................................  10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(d)   Plant Closure Program ................ ........ ....... ... .  10
(e)    Withdrawal from Consignment and Retail Distribution Operations .10
(f)   Fertilizer  Imports   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
(g) Financial Restructuring .12
(h) Organizational Restructuring .13
The Privatization Process .15
B. Implementation of the Investment Components .17
(a)    Completion of the Pajaritos Ammonium Nitrate Plant .17
(b) Plants Rehabilitation .18
(c) Maritime Terminals .19
(d)   Wholesale Storage facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
C. Environmental Aspects .21
D. Implementation of the Technical Assistance Component .23
E. Procurement .24
F. Total Project Costs .24
G. Financing .24
11. Disbursement Schedule .25
6. Project Results .26
(a) Policy Program Results .26
(b) Results of the Investments Components .27
(c) Financial Performance .27
7. Project Sustainability .28
Sustainability of the Policy Program and Privatization .28
Sustainability of the New Investments .29
Potential Sustainability of a Restructured FERTIMEX .30
8. Bank Performance .30
9. Borrowers Performance .30
10. Project Relationship .31
11. Consulting Services .31
12. Project Documentation and Data .31



PART  III:    STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ............                                  ..................    32
1. Related Bank Group Operations .32
2. Project Timetable .33
3. Loan Disbursement .34
4. Project Implementation .35
5. Project Costs and Financing .37
A. Project Total Costs .37
B. Investments and Project Financing .38
C.  Total Rehabilitation Costs and Financing .39
D.      Costs and Status of Rehabilitation Sub-projects in Pajaritos Fosfatados ...                          ......  40
E.      Costs and Status of Rehabilitation Sub-projects in Lazaro Cardenas  ....                           .......   41
F.      Bank Financing  ...........................................    42
6. Project Benefits ..........  43
A.      Direct Benefits   ...........................................    43
Domestic Production of Fertilizer ................................   43
Main Plants Production and Unit Consumption of Raw  Materials  ....                              ........   44
National Fertilizer Demand  ....................................   45
National Supply/Demand Balances  ...............................   46
Fertimex Consignment Sales  ...................................   47
B.      Financial Impact  ..........................................   48
International and Domestic Prices of Fertilizer and Fertilizer Raw  Materials  ... ..  48
Budget Transfers to FERTIMEX  for Operation, Interest Payments and Investments .   52
FERTIMEX's Profitability  ....................................   53
Profit and Loss Statements  ....................................   54
Financial Performance  .......................................   55
C.      Economic Impact of New  Investment Projects  ........................   56
Pajaritos Ammonium  Nitrate Plant  ...............................   56
Maritime Terminals   ........................................   57
D.   Studies ................................................  58
7.      Use of Bank Resources  ..........................................    61
A.      Staff Inputs   .............................................    61
B.  Missions ..............................62



8.   Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants ............................   64
Annexes
Annex 1 - Pajaritos Ammonium Nitrate, Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Annex 2 - Maritime Terminals, Capital Costs Calculations
Annex 3 - Divestiture of FERTIMEX's Production Units



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2919 ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Mexico Fertilizer Sector Adjustment
Project for which Loan 2919-ME in the amount of US$265 million was approved by the Bank on
March 15, 1988 and became effective on November 2, 1989. The Loan was closed on December 31,
1993 as planned during appraisal. Due to the acceleration of the privatization of Fertilizantes
Mexicanos, S.A. (FERTIMEX) and to the resulting reduction in total financing requirements, US$19
million equivalent was canceled on July 9, 1992. The final disbursement took place on August 1,
1993. On August 10, 1993, the remaining balance in the Special Account in the amount of US$3.6
million was returned to the Bank, and on August 19, 1993 the remaining undisbursed balance of
US$5.8 million was canceled, reducing the Bank Loan to US$240.2 million.
The PCR was prepared by Daniel Crisafulli (Task Manager) and Charles Dahan (Consultant)
and reviewed by David de Ferranti, Chief of the Mexico Country Operations and Environment
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Country Department II and by Paul Knotter,
Projects Adviser, Latin America and the Caribbean Country Department II (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and Part III). The Government provided extensive comments and statistical
information during the Completion Mission which have been incorporated into Parts I and III of this
report. Due to the privatization of the executing agency, the Government was not able to provide
Part II of this report, "Project Review from the Government's Perspective".
Preparation of the PCR, initiated during the final project supervision and completion mission to
Mexico during June 1993, is based, inter alia, on the President's Report; the Loan, Project and
Guarantee Agreements; the Fertilizer Sector Restructuring Program (sector report) prepared by the
Bank (April 29, 1986); amendment letters; supervision reports; the Bank project files; and
information prepared by FERTIMEX.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR AD.lUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2919 ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Loan Objectives and Design
i.       This hybrid sector policy and investment loan was intended to support the implementation
of the first phase of the Government of Mexico (GOM) and FERTIMEX five year program to put the
fertilizer sector on a sound competitive basis and eliminate Government subsidies through: (i)
implementation of major policy reforms; (ii) supporting rationalization investments; and (iii) carrying
out studies required to assist in the implementation of the program. Major policy reforms included:
(a) the elimination of price subsidies on fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials; (b) the closure of
uneconomic plants; (c) the rationalization and liberalization of the fertilizer distribution system
through withdrawal of FERTIMEX from retail and consignment distribution; (d) improvement in the
organizational structure of FERTIMEX; (e) the financial restructuring of FERTIMEX; and (f)
improvement in links between PEMEX and FERTIMEX for ammonia and urea production.
ii.      The project, as amended on February 4, 1990, consisted of three components: (i) US$150
million in Bank financing as set-asides in support of Mexico's debt reduction program, and US$50
million in Bank financing for imports of fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials; (ii) US$145 million, of
which US$63.6 million was financed by the Bank, to undertake rationalization investments, including
the rehabilitation of viable production plants, the completion of an ammonium nitrate fertilizer plant at
Pajaritos, the construction of wholesale storage facilities, and the construction and or improvement of
maritime terminals; and (iii) US$1.4 million in Bank financing for technical assistance for the
restructuring of FERTIMEX.
ImDlementation Experience
The Policy Program
iii.     Substantial implementation delays occurred at the beginning of the project (particularly in
price adjustments and withdrawal from distribution). The Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)
suffered in 1988 and early 1989 from general price freezes decreed under GOM economic
stabilization programs, and consequently: (i) the loan became effective over one year after the
originally planned date (para. 5.1); (ii) the first tranche of the import and debt reduction component
was disbursed 16 months behind estimates (para. 5.2); and (iii) the second tranche was released 15
months after the amended schedule and over 28 months behind appraisal estimates (para. 5.3).
iv.      After these initial delays, however, progress on the sectoral adjustment program was fully
satisfactory. Early during implementation of the restructuring process of FERTIMEX, GOM and
FERTIMEX's management embarked on an ambitious program aimed at the complete decontrol of the
sector and total privatization of FERTIMEX. This program was implemented at an accelerated pace,
and, in December 1992, the sector had been completely decontrolled, all production assets had been
sold to private owners, FERTIMEX had stopped all distribution activities, and all other assets,
including distribution assets, were being liquidated. This accelerated program was not contemplated



iii
under the Loan and reflected policy decisions going beyond commitments in the Loan Agreement
(Section 5).
Privatiation of FERTIMEX
v.       While prepared as an option in the Bank's underpinning sector report for the project, the
privatization of FERTIMEX productive assets which was not an original objective. Privatization
started effectively on March 1991, with the sale of non-priority plants and was concluded 21 months
later, in December 1992, with the sale of FERTIMEX's largest and most problematic industrial
complex of Lazaro Cardenas. A total of 13 plants were sold individually in four phases by the
Privatization Unit of SHCP assisted by financial agents, with some specialized assistance from the
General Manager and the directors of FERTIMEX. Total revenues from the sale of all 13 plants were
modest (about US$320 million), however, privatization permitted the creation of a competitive sector,
avoided the formation of a private monopoly and eliminated GOM budgetary transfers to the fertilizer
sector. Following privatization of all production facilities and the dissolution of the fertilizer
marketing company, the Government appointed a liquidator to sell the remaining non-productive
assets. Full liquidation of the company is expected to be completed during 1994 (para. 5.30).
The Investment Program
vi.      The investment program was adjusted several times during project implementation to reflect
changing priorities and constraints which arose during restructuring and privatization. The wholesale
storage facilities were canceled in light of FERTIMEX's revised distribution strategy. On September
1, 1992, due to the acceleration of privatization, management decided to discontinue the construction
of the Topolobampo and Altamira terminals and to sell them unfinished. Due to divestiture of the
Pajaritos complex, all expenditures on the ammonium nitrate plant were suspended at the end of April
1992, although the plant was nearly completed. During implementation, a number of plant
rehabilitation sub-projects were canceled and others were added to reflect changing priorities and
accelerated pace of restructuring and privatization (para. 5.31).
Project Results
Policy Program Results
vii.     Total Decontrol of the Fertilizer Sector. The major objectives were: (i) total withdrawal
of FERTIMEX from retail distribution; (ii) increase of fertilizer prices to 85% of their import/export
parity; (iii) increases in raw material prices to approximate international parity; and (iv) increase in
competition from imports. Not only were all these objectives fully achieved, but policy actions
permitted the complete deregulation of the sub-sector, the complete withdrawal of FERTIMEX from
all distribution activities, and facilitated the divestiture of plants (para. 6.1).
viii.    Divestiture of FERTIMEX's production facilities. The reorganization of FERTIMEX
into decentralized regional business units, the rehabilitation investments, administrative and
operational improvements, and staff reductions led to improved financial results and greater
transparency in company accounts. This permitted the definition of packages of plants for divestiture,
facilitating the privatization of FERTIMEX's production facilities (para. 6.2).
ix.      Impact on GOM Budget. Budget transfers to FERTIMEX were eliminated by 1993.
Actual savings in budgetary transfers over the period 1988-92 are estimated at about US$1.0 billion



iv
equivalent. These savings are somewhat lower than the US$1.3 billion equivalent expected at
appraisal over the same period, but remain very substantial. Budget transfers for interest payments
remained high (until 1990), due to the contracting of substantial additional short term debt to resolve
critical liquidity problems (para. 6.3).
x.       Impact on Fertilizer Production and Use. Fertilizer production increased from about 1.6
million tons of nutrients in 1986 to about 2 million tons in 1990. This increase was in line with
appraisal estimates (para. 6.4). Finally, production in FERTIMEX's urea plants increased by about
15%-20% above their 1986 level, as a result of better cooperation between FERTIMEX and PEMEX,
and improved plant management.
xi.      Despite sharp increases in prices, domestic fertilizer demand did not decrease and remained
at its 1986 level of about 1.75 million tons of nutrients (para. 6.5). This, however, was substantially
lower than the 2.4 million tons projected at appraisal. At appraisal, the fertilizer deficit was expected
to reach about 260,000 tons of nutrients in 1991 and 370,000 tons in 1992. Actually, the nutrient
supply/demand balance showed a surplus of about 320,000 tons in 1990 and 230,000 tons in 1991.
During and after the withdrawal of FERTIMEX from fertilizer production and distribution, domestic
and imported fertilizer remained available to farmers, and no fertilizer shortages were reported. This
was the result of the excellent preparation work performed by FERTIMEX before withdrawal from
production and distribution.
Results of the Investments Components
xii.     Performance in the implementation of project investments was mixed: (a) Plant
Rehabilitation investments permitted improved operations and resulted in higher production and
lower raw material consumption. In 1990, the consumption of raw materials reached levels consistent
with those considered attainable during the sub-sector review and at appraisal; (b) implementation of
Maritime Terminals was poor -- re-estimated rates of return on the Topolobampo and Altamira
terminals are low, due to large cost overruns (para. 5.43). The new owners are likely to use these
terminals for other products in addition to fertilizers, thereby raising the financial and economic
viability of the facilities; (c) finally, with respect to the Pajaritos Ammonium Nitrate Plant, due to
high capital costs and to low international prices of ammonium nitrate, returns on the plant are also
low (para. 5.36). In addition, the international market for solid ammonium nitrate is limited and the
domestic market is stagnant.
Financial Performance
xiii.    Although FERTIMEX's gross operating margin (sales, minus costs of sales) eventually
reached a positive value in 1991, reflecting the impact of plant rehabilitation and improved
management, FERTIMEX's operating losses continued to increase (from about US$195 million in
1987 to about US$375 million in 1990 and US$ 281 million in 1991). These high operating losses
were due inter-alia to temporary increases in distribution costs (para. 6.12). Except in 1990 and
1991, when price freezes caused serious liquidity problems, financial covenants were met. The
Government assumed FERTIMEX's long term debt, as had been agreed.
Project Costs and Procurement
xiv.     Many delays and procedural disagreements occurred early in the procurement of goods and
works. All these problems were solved when sample International Competitive Bidding documents
were agreed by the Bank and the Government for all Bank-financed projects in Mexico in mid-1989.



v
Actual total Project costs amounted to US$320.12 million, versus US$346.4 million estimated at
appraisal, i.e., 7.6% below appraisal estimates. The cost overruns of the Pajaritos ammonium
nitrate plant (49%) largely offset the lower costs of: (i) the distribution infrastructure rationalization
component (41 % below estimates); and (ii) the rehabilitation of the production plants (27% below
estimates). Total Bank financing amounted to US$240.2 million, versus US$265 million estimated at
appraisal, while counterpart funds amounted to about US$80 million, in line with appraisal estimates
(para. 5.59).
Environmental Aspects
xv.      The main environmental issues of this project were: (i) the impact of sea disposal of the
gypsum produced in the phosphoric acid plant at Lazaro Cardenas; (ii) the impact of the gypsum
water sea disposal at the Pajaritos phosphoric acid plant; and (iii) the impact of sulfur dioxide (SO2)
emissions from the sulfuric acid plants of Pajaritos (para. 5.48).
xvi.     Lazro Cardenas. Since the commissioning of the plant in 1987, the gypsum sea disposal
system has been plagued with a series of problems. During implementation of FSAL, the Bank
accepted to finance two stand-by dilution water pumps; an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA);
and the design of the system recommended by the EIA. A preliminary EIA study concluded that the
impact of gypsum disposal was not significant. After review, the Bank insisted on the need for a
more complete follow-up study. After the disposal system was destroyed by an earthquake in 1992,
contracting of the study was suspended. At the time of divestiture in December 1992, the phosphoric
acid plants were not operating and the dispute with the Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA or
National Water Commission) over resolution of the environmental problems was still not determined.
Prior to delivery of the plant, the new owner reached an agreement with CNA with a view to finding
a permanent solution to this problem (para. 5.51).
xvii.    Pajaritos Fosfatados. (a) To address the Gypsum-contaminated water of the
Pajaritos Fosfatados plant overflows to the Gulf of Mexico, the project included: (i) the rehabilitation
of the phosphoric acid plants and (ii) a gypsum water recycle sub-project. The phosphoric acid units
were rehabilitated and the operation of the settling ponds improved. However, FERTIMEX dropped
the water recycle sub-project due to the acceleration of plant divestiture. The Bank requested that
FERTIMEX prepare an EIA, which concluded that the impact of contaminated gypsum water disposal
was minimal. Nevertheless, the new plant owner signed an environmental agreement with CNA
which included the implementation of the water recycle project within three years. (b) In order to
reduce SO2 emissions from the two single absorption sutfuric acid plants of
Pajaritos Fosfatados, FERTIMEX added an ammonium sulfate solution recovery section to these
plants. This project, which was started before appraisal, was completed and commissioned in 1990.
Currently, one of the sulfuric acid plants has been definitively stopped and the second plant is not in
operation (paras. 5.53 and 5.54).
Proiect Sustainability
Sustainability of the Policy Program
xviii.    The FSAL identified two major risks relevant to project sustainability: (i) a possible
negative impact on the agricultural sector; and (ii) a possibility of future policy reversals.
xix.     Close linkage with the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSAL- Loan 2918-ME),
reduced the risk of negative impact on the agricultural sector. Following implementation of the



vi
AGSAL and AGSAL II (Loans 2918-ME and 3357-ME, respectively), the agricultural economy
moved close to a market-pricing system, subsidies on agricultural inputs were reduced and arbitrary
and costly trade restrictions on most agricultural products were abandoned. As a result, fertilizer
prices increased, but domestic fertilizer consumption did not decrease and remained around its 1986
level (para. 6.4).
xx.      The policy reforms, as implemented, went far beyond commitments under the FSAL. This
success was the result of strong GOM commitment to reform, particularly by the Salinas
administration. Due to the success of the broad program of structural adjustment put in place during
recent years, the risk of political reversal of the reform process is exceedingly low. In addition,
although it is too early for a full evaluation, the privatized and deregulated fertilizer sector appears to
function well. The private sector reacted quickly and positively to FERTIMEX's withdrawal from
fertilizer distribution and full sectoral deregulation (para. 5.13). All sites are currently operating,
with one exception.
xxi.     The last remaining distortion in the sector is now being removed: Mexican regulations have
been revised to exclude ammonia from the list of products reserved for PEMEX, and to allow private
sector participation in ammonia production. PEMEX has announced its decision to sell its ammonia
plants in the near future (para. 7.4).
Sustainabdity of New Investments
xxii.    The viability of the Topolobampo and Altamira maritime terminals could be improved
following divestiture, if the new owners use them to handle other products in addition to fertilizers
(para. 6. 10). Also, on a marginal cost basis, net cash flows of the Pajaritos ammonium nitrate plant
remain positive and, if completed at low cost, the Urea-Ammonium Nitrate (UAN) solutions plant
could offer the opportunity for market diversification (para. 5.37), thereby improving plant
sustainability (para. 6.11). With respect to Lazaro Cardenas, low price obtained from the plant sale
(about US$50 million together with the ROFOMEX mine of Baja California) confirms that the plant
may only be financially sustainable when treating part, or all, past investment as sunk costs (PCR,
Loan 1686-ME). Attempts are currently underway to improve the plant financial viability.
Findines and Lessons Learned
xxiii.    There was clear over-compliance on the policy based component, although with significant
initial delays. In comparison, the investment component performed rather badly with capital cost
overruns and delays. The Bank played a major role in carrying out the underpinning economic and
sector work, and contributed to project design and implementation. After negotiating the project with
a FERTIMEX management team rather adverse to sector restructuring and a Government not fully
committed to complete reform, the new Government's philosophy resulted in actions that were fully
in line with the most far-reaching recommendations in the sector report. A number of lessons may be
learned from implementation of the project and from the privatization process which took place in
parallel. The most important are:
Lessons from Restructuring
xxiv.    Government commitment to reform is essential for comprehensive sector restructuring.
GOM was able to deal simultaneously with macroeconomic stabilization, structural adjustment and
debt reduction. Consensus within the Government and the State-Owned Enterprise (SOE) regarding
the need for price deregulation is particularly important. When this consensus is reached, the



vii
implementation of pricing reforms can move faster and beyond original commitments. Timely pricing
reform, in turn, is essential for the overall restructuring program para. 5.5).
xxv.     SOE management commitment to company restructuring is also indispensable. If
management commitment is limited, as was the case at appraisal and the early stages of
implementation, it may be advantageous for the Bank to accept a limited restructuring program which
includes key studies that could provide the underpinning for more ambitious actions in the future. A
limited program, well received by the borrower, may be more effective in initiating full restructuring
than a more ambitious program which does not attract commitment (para. 5.19). A positive feature
of the loan was the linking of tranche conditions to specific policy actions and phases of the studies
needed to prepare later actions. The design of tranches with sufficient time lag between tranche
disbursement ensures effective follow-up of policy implementation and avoids possible back-sliding
when the loan is fully disbursed.
xxvi.    Price conditionality for fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials was superseded by GOM's
overriding price stabilization programs early during implementation. In spite of close coordination
between the Bank and GOM on stabilization and sector restructuring measures, it was not possible to
avoid conflicting policy programs and negative impacts on FERTIMEX finances and restructuring
efforts (para. 5.5).
xxvii.   Plant closure programs should be carefully assessed and should be flexible particularly
when the viability of the plants to be closed-down depends on prices of international commodities in a
depressed and volatile market (as the fertilizer market has been for many years) (para. 5.9).
xxviii.   New investments should not normally be part of a sector restructuring operation. They are
not likely to be efficiently implemented until the company and/or sector has been completely
restructured and, if privatization is the ultimate target, they will be better implemented by the new
owner at lower cost to the Government. Well-implemented rehabilitation investments, however, may
improve efficiency in preparation for liberalization or privatization; maintain an incentive for
management and staff to optimize operations during the divestiture period; and enable the Bank to
monitor the restructuring process and provide an important opportunity for the Bank to maintain a
dynamic working dialogue with the company (paras. 5.31, 6.9).
Lessons from Privatization
xxix.    Consolidation of divestiture activities in a central government interministerial unit, assisted
by qualified agent banks for the management of sales, is an effective way of organizing speedy and
efficient sales. Efficiency of the divestiture may be improved if specialized assistance is obtained
from the company management as long as it is committed to divestiture (para. 5.27).
xxx.     Adequate packaging of assets for divestiture is very important: the sale of Pajaritos
Fosfatados in combination with Pajaritos Nitrogenados and of the Rofomex phosphate mine in
combination with Lazaro Cardenas greatly facilitated their divestiture (para. 5.25).
xxxi.    It is important to secure labor support, or at least prevent opposition, in advance of the
restructuring and divestiture process. This can be achieved by preparing acceptable compensation
schemes during lay-offs and by encouraging labor participation in bidding for the privatized entities
(para. 5.28).



viii
xxxii.   If well prepared, public sector withdrawal from fertilizer distribution activities can be
implemented quickly and easily. Critical factors are: management commitment, the establishment of
incentives to attract the private sector, and prior pricing and trade deregulation (para. 6. 1).
Lessons from Project Supervision
xxxiii.   High returns can be gained from time and resources invested in building a working
dialogue with key decision makers and maintain an open and frequent communications. The close
relationship which developed between the Bank, FERTIMEX management, and the GOM permitted a
better understanding of problems encountered during the restructuring and privatization process and
resulted in a continuous policy dialogue (para. 10.1).
xxxiv.   Intense project supervision by the Bank as well as continuity in Bank staff is especially
important in this type of operations, and even more when local administrations overlap-- the task
manager responsible for preparation, appraisal and negotiation should supervise the project at least
during the initial critical phases to ensure continuity in the policy dialogue.






PRO.JECT COMPLETION REPORT
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2919 ME)
PART I: PRO.JECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name: Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan Number: 2919-ME
RVP Unit: Latin America & Caribbean Region
Country:    Mexico
Sector:     Industry
Sub-sector: Fertilizer
2.   Background
2.1    The Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) was prepared and appraised as an integral
component of Mexico's broad economic and sectoral restructuring program during a time of rapid
change in the macro and microeconomic policy environment in the country. The loan reflected the
refocussing of the Bank's country assistance strategy in line with the shift in Government policy
toward stabilization, macro adjustment, and sectoral reforms.
2.2   The crisis experienced by the Mexican economy during the first half of the 1980s, among the
most severe that the country had experienced in its history, was the result of decades of inward-
oriented development policies combined with negative external shocks. By 1970, Mexico had
exhausted the easier possibilities for import-substitution industrialization which had generated an
average 6.2% rate of economic growth from the 1940s to the 1960s. During the 1970s, central
administrative controls were increasingly used to allocate the resources available to the economy.
This economic control was extended through increasing regulation and direct state ownership of
productive resources. State participation in the economy peaked at 1,155 firms in 1982 with the
nationalization of the commercial banks.
2.3    The high rates of growth, although continuing at an average of 6.2% through the 1970s,
masked a growing degree of inefficiency in the economy. Total factor productivity growth, for
example, declined from about 4.5% per annum in the 1940s, to 1.0% in the 1950s and 1960s, and to
zero growth in the 1970s. Following the financial and economic crisis of 1976, major oil discoveries
led to an apparent quick economic recovery. Public external debt grew from US$40 billion in 1979
to US$78 billion in 1981. The ensuing prosperity lasted until 1982, when falling oil prices, rising
world interest rates, and massive capital flight led external creditors to refuse to provide further
finance to cover Mexico's deficits or to roll over its short-term debt.
2.4    The debt crisis of 1982 forced the incoming administration, which took office at the end of
the year, to adopt a stringent stabilization program and to seek external debt relief. The program
succeeded in reducing the fiscal and current account deficits and enabled a fragile economic recovery
to begin in 1984-85. Initial steps toward trade liberalization, privatization, and structural reform were
taken. Two major external shocks, the Mexico City earthquake of 1985 and the collapse of oil prices
in 1986, however, disrupted this recovery.



2.5    Despite the worsening external environment in 1985-86, and in recognition of the limited
results of earlier reform efforts, the Government deepened the program of structural adjustment.
Major trade reforms, notably the signing of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in
1986, were undertaken to open the economy to international competition.
2.6    The macroeconomic situation continued to deteriorate, however, with annual inflation
reaching 159% in 1987. In December of that year, the Government negotiated the Pacto (Economic
Solidarity Pact), which combined fiscal and monetary austerity with agreed wage and price controls.
The Government initially froze the dollar-peso exchange rate as a nominal anchor against inflation.
Labor and business groups, in turn, negotiated a program of wage and price controls intended to curb
the strong inertial components of inflation.
2.7   In December 1988, the Pacto was renewed as the Economic Stabilization and Growth Pact
(PECE). The new agreement contained guidelines for price and wage adjustments and exchange rate
movements in an effort to consolidate price stability. The well-balanced Pacrto/PECE strategy, which
included Government, business, and labor efforts at stabilization, turned out to be successful, as
inflation dropped to 52% in 1988 and an average of 20% during 1989-1992 while output and
investment recovered quickly.
2.8    Following the inauguration of the Salinas administration in December 1988, the privatization
program of the Government was expanded and accelerated. Although the sale of state enterprises
began in late 1982, only 108 small and medium-sized SOEs had been privatized by the start of 1989,
raising US$1.67 billion in revenue. The expanded program under the Salinas administration raised
US$20.23 billion during 1989-1992, as the bulk of the remaining SOEs were sold or liquidated.
World Bank and IMF Roles in Mexico's Adjustment
2.9    The Bank role in Mexico began to shift during the mid-1980s as a result of i) the
Government's increasing commitment to profound structural reform and ii) recognition of the severity
of the country's problems. The Bank began to work more closely with the Government on trade
issues during 1984; by 1985, the Bank began to play a central role in the dialogue between the
Government and international commercial creditors via the developing program of structural reform
and financial support.
2.10   The Government, while fully committed to structural reforms, did not want a formal
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) for political reasons. The Bank consequently agreed to address the
long-term structural issues through a series of sector adjustment loans, which taken together, covered
thoroughly the major elements of a SAL program. The two Trade Policy Loans (FY87 and FY88 for
US$500 million each) were the first such operations and were followed by sector adjustment loans in
the Fertilizer Sector (Loan 2919-ME, FY88, US$265 million); Agriculture Sector (FY88 and FY91,
US$300 million and US$400 million, respectively); Steel Sector (FY88, US$400 million); Financial
Sector (FY89, US$500 million); Industrial Sector (FY89, US$500 million); Public Enterprise Reform
(FY89, US$500 million); Road Transport and Telecommunications (FY90, US$380 million); Interest
Support (FY90, US$1.26 billion); and Export Sector (FY91. US$300 million). These operations
formed a policy package to build the framework for the increase in private investment necessary to
spur growth.
2.11   Since 1982, the IMF has supported Mexico with an extended arrangement for SDR 3.4
billion, a special emergency drawing for SDR 291 million following the 1985 earthquake, a stand-by
agreement for SDR 1.4 billion in 1986, a drawing of SDR 453 million in 1989 under the



compensatory facility and a further extended arrangement of SDR 2.8 billion. The final extended
financing facility was completed successfully in May 1993.
2.12   During the design and implementation of the program of sector restructuring, the Bank and
IMF were in close coordination to ensure policy compatibility. The Bank and IMF also worked
closely with the Government in negotiation of the 1989 debt reduction agreement with international
commercial banks. This agreement resulted in an immediate drop in nominal interest rates,
lengthening maturities for public debt and massive private capital inflows.
The Fertilizer Sector at Appraisal
2.13   Until recently, the fertilizer industry had been viewed by the Government of Mexico as a
strategic industry in the context of its overall objective to make effective use of its energy resources
and to achieve self-sufficiency in basic grains and cereals. Annual consumption, which in 1987
amounted to 4.7 million tons of products (about 1.9 million tons of nutrients) had been growing by
6% per year since 1975. With the exception of small quantities of ammonium sulfate and specialty
fertilizers, all fertilizer production in Mexico was in the public sector. All ammonia (the main raw
material in the production of nitrogenous fertilizers) was produced by Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX).
All other fertilizer intermediates and solid finished products were produced by FERTIMEX, which
was also the primary agency responsible for fertilizer marketing and distribution in Mexico.
2.14   During the 15 years preceding appraisal in April 1987, the major objective of FERTIMEX
had been to implement the Government policy of increasing domestic use and production of fertilizer,
and to deliver it to farmers at subsidized prices (which in 1986 averaged about half of import parity).
At appraisal, FERTIMEX total production capacity amounted to 6.0 million tons of finished products
and 5.4 million tons of intermediates and consisted of 56 plants in 12 different locations.
FERTIMEX production in 1987 totalled about 4.4 million tons of product. It was estimated then that
twenty nine of these plants (accounting for about 28% of total product capacity and 11 % of total
intermediate capacity) which started operation prior to 1970 were unlikely to become economically
viable. With appropriate revamping and efficient operation, the remaining plants could become
economically viable at the then projected international input and output prices.
2.15   FERTIMEX reached its distribution objective of widespread fertilizer availability at uniform,
subsidized prices at very high distribution cost (about US$45/ton in 1986) due to: (i) excessive
reliance on consignment; (ii) the obligation to deliver to about 2600 sales points; (iii) excessive
reliance on truck transport; and (iv) high volumes transported and stored in bags in more than 1,000
warehouses with excessive inventories totalling about 4 million tons (about 10 months' sales).
2.16   FERTIMEX was operating in an environment of Government policies and regulations which
were not conductive to optimum production, financial and economic efficiency. The major
constraints to improving efficiency in the sector were:
(a)   The pricing system: The GOM set one uniform, subsidized price which was paid by farmers
and distributors at the nearest railway station. This price was determined by the government's
agricultural policy and was related neither to FERTIMEX's production and distribution costs
nor to international prices: in 1986, revenues from sales covered only 44% of total costs
including interest charges. Budgetary transfers amounted to US$386 million equivalent, and in
addition FERTIMEX received about US$130 million equivalent in indirect subsidies from
PEMEX in the form of low ammonia prices.



(b)   Poor Financial situation of FERTIMEX: As of December 1987, FERTIMEX's debt amounted
to US$1,032 million and total annual debt service (on the medium and long term debt) totalled
US$185 million.
(c)   Lack of competition: FERTIMEX was a defacto production monopoly and, for all practical
purposes, an import and distribution monopoly.
(d)   FERTIMEX Management Autonomy. Organization and Business Orientation: Due to
FERTIMEX's high dependence on budgetary funding, government intervention in its
management remained very heavy in spite of the newly enacted law on parastatal enterprises.
The company continued to operate more as a Government department under SEMIP's
supervision than as a commercial enterprise. Management was very centralized with over
3,500 headquarter employees out of total personnel of 13,000. Cost control was not a priority.
(e)   Non-integration of Ammonia and Urea Plants. Throughout the world fertilizer industry,
ammonia and urea plants are integrated to maximize efficiency. In Mexico, due to prevailing
legislation, ammonia plants were and still are, owned and operated by PEMEX, while the
downstream urea plants were owned and operated by FERTIMEX.
2.17   Because of the escalating cost of subsidies to the national budget, the Government started to
consider sector restructuring to minimize costs of both production and distribution. In 1985, for the
first time in ten years of Bank involvement in Mexico's fertilizer sector, the GOM requested Bank
assistance in the definition of an overall strategy for the sector. During 1986 and 1987 FERTIMEX
already took a number of steps to improve its efficiency. These included: (i) decentralization of
limited functions to the regional level; (ii) development of systems to support such decentralization;
(iii) closure of 12 plants in five locations. These steps were part of the measures recommended by
the Fertilizer Sector Restructuring Program report prepared by the Bank (April 29, 1986). Although
indispensable, these measures fell far short of the reforms needed for FERTIMEX to carry out the
medium and long term strategy spelled out in the 1986 Bank sector report, the GOM Sector Policy
Statement (para. 3.1), and the policy program agreed during negotiations as part of the Project
(section 5).
Fertilizer Sector Development Following Loan Approval
2.18   Following approval of the loan in March 15, 1988, implementation of the agreed policy
program experienced significant early delays. Effectiveness was achieved only in November 1989, as
compared to the expected date of September 1988. Delays were due to the changes in Government
administrations and, concurrently, in FERTIMEX management and to the price constraints imposed
on raw materials and fertilizer prices under the Pacto and the PECE (paras. 2.6 and 2.7).
2.19   After these initial delays, progress in implementation of the program was satisfactory. The
Government and FERTIMEX took the agreed actions in fertilizer and raw materials pricing,
reorganization, and withdrawal from retail distribution. Moreover, GOM and FERTIMEX's
management moved further and faster than had been anticipated. They embarked on an ambitious
program which led to the complete deregulation and privatization of the fertilizer sector within about
two years. Although complete privatization of the sector was not specifically envisioned in the
FSAL, it was the preferred of the proposed options in the Fertilizer Sector Restructuring Program
proposed in the Bank's sector report. However, at the time of appraisal, achieving this objective was
considered to be unrealistic in the short to medium term. As of June 1993: (i) all production
facilities had been sold and delivered to their new owners; (ii) FERTIMEX had withdrawn completely



from retail and wholesale distribution; (iii) all remaining personnel had been released as of December
31, 1992; (iv) all remaining assets including distribution facilities were being sold by a liquidator
appointed by the Government; and (iv) the sector was completely deregulated.
3.    Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1   Project Objectives: This hybrid sector policy and investment loan was intended to support the
implementation of the first phase of the Government-FERTIMEX five year program to put the
fertilizer sector on a sound competitive basis and eliminate Government subsidies through: (i)
implementation of major policy reforms; (ii) investment to rationalize operations; and (iii) studies to
assist in the implementation of the program. Major policy reforms were incorporated in the Sector
Policy Statement, dated February 25, 1988 and in a contract between the Government and
FERTIMEX which was signed before Loan effectiveness. These policy measures included: (a) the
elimination of price subsidies on fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials according to a four-year
program of price increases; (b) the closure of uneconomic plants; (c) the rationalization and
liberalization of the fertilizer distribution system through withdrawal of FERTIMEX from retail and
consignment distribution over a four year period; (d) improvement in the organizational structure of
FERTIMEX; (e) the financial restructuring of FERTIMEX; and (f) improvement in links between
PEMEX and FERTIMEX for ammonia and urea production.
3.2    Project Description: At approval, the project consisted of three components with a total cost
of US$346.4 million:
(a)    US$200 million in Bank financing for imports of fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials
(US$150 million) and other imports (US$50 million) in support of the sub-sector policy
reforms;
(b)    US$145 million, of which US$63.6 million was financed by the Bank and US$81.4 million by
the Government, to undertake rationalization investments in the production and distribution
infrastructure. They included: (i) the rehabilitation of viable production plants; (ii) the
completion of an ammonium nitrate fertilizer plant at Pajaritos; (iii) the construction of
wholesale storage facilities (14 bulk fertilizer warehouses and 4 ammonia spheres); and (iv)
the construction of two maritime terminals in Topolobampo and Altamira and improvement of
existing bulk facilities in five ports; and
(c)    US$1.4 million for the financing of technical assistance to assist in the restructuring of
FERTIMEX. This technical assistance included: (i) an overall organization study of
FERTIMEX; (ii) a distribution study to define the modalities of FERTIMEX's withdrawal
from retail and consignment operations; (iii) a phosphate study to develop a method of
comparative economic evaluation of various phosphate rock types; and (iv) systems to upgrade
the planning capabilities of FERTIMEX.
3.3    The Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement were amended on February 4, 1990 to
allow GOM to use US$150 million1' from the proceeds of the Loan as set-asides in support of
Mexico's debt reduction program (see PCR, Interest Support Loan, Report No. 11640). The
lLThe proceeds of the first tranche (US$100 million) and an additional US$50 million from the
second tranche of US$100 million originally.



component for import of fertilizers and fertilizer raw materials was therefore reduced to US$50
million. However, the allocation of a large part of the loan proceeds for debt reduction purposes did
not affect the objectives nor the implementation of the FSAL, since the imports which were originally
to be financed out of these proceeds were financed from Mexico's own resources.
3.4    The Loan and Project Agreements were also amended on February 16, 1990 to permit the
financing from the proceeds of the loan of: (i) urgent rehabilitation investments in Lazaro Cardenas;
and (ii) studies to assess the environmental impact of gypsum and contaminated water ejected to the
sea in Lazaro Cardenas and to design and engineer the recommended systems necessary to minimize
such impact.
4.    Project Design and OrEanization
4.1    Project Design. Based on the extensive sector work carried out during the preparation
mission (November 1985) and summarized in the Fertilizer Sector Restructuring Program proposed
by the Bank, and on the findings of the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, the conceptual
foundations for the project were clear and appropriate. The project objectives as reflected in the
design were shared by parties relevant to the project. Designed as part of the GOM's overall
economic restructuring strategy then under implementation, the project was timely. The design was
innovative, combining sector policy reforms with investment for rationalization of operations. The
roles, objectives, and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies involved were clear. The
important conditions of effectiveness, unusual for an adjustment loan, and the linking of tranche
conditions to specific policy actions proved instrumental in policy implementation. The policy
reforms planned under the project were a prerequisite to FERTIMEX's complete withdrawal from
retail and wholesale distribution and the divestiture of its production and distribution facilities (para.
6.2). The conceptual aspects of the rationalization investments program had been developed by
FERTIMEX with inputs from Bank staff. However, this investment program had to be adjusted
several times during project implementation to reflect priorities and constraints identified while
implementing restructuring plans, and later on as a result of the accelerated privatization program
implemented by the GOM and FERTIMEX.
4.2   Project Coordination. Except for the implementation of new investments, the FERTIMEX
Planning Department was very effective at coordinating all Project activities. The Planning
Department was also an effective channel of communication between the different agencies involved
in project implementation, including the Bank, NAFIN, SEMIP, and SHCP. Through continuous
informal contacts, support of Bank supervision missions, and timely progress reports, the Planning
Department provided valuable assistance to Bank follow-up of policy reforms and the investment
program, and of the restructuring and privatization processes.
4.3    Organization of Rehabilitation and Investments Projects. The plant rehabilitation components
were successfully carried out by the decentralized production units. However, the new investment
projects (completion of the ammonium nitrate plant and the construction of the two terminals of
Topolobampo and Altamira), whose management remained centralized at Headquarters, were poorly
implemented. Despite the restructuring of the company, FERTIMEX investment implementation
capabilities at Headquarters remained limited. The Bank insisted on the contracting of outside
consultants to support sub-project local implementation teams in planning, control, expediting,
irspection, and reporting. However, FERTIMEX appointed with its own funds the same company
for all three sub-projects, and only after construction had started. While costs overruns and
implementation delays were not as severe as under the two previous Bank-financed projects



(FERTIMEX I and II), and despite the Bank's recommendations and supervision efforts FERTIMEX
was not able to avoid recurrence of project implementation problems experienced under these past
operations. Only when an experienced project manager was placed on site at the Pajaritos ammonium
nitrate plant did the pace of construction improve. Reasons for delays and overruns were: poor
project management organization including some modification of project scope during implementation
without Bank agreement; lack of multi-annual investment budgets for the project; and a complete lack
of incentives to maintain project implementation within budget and schedule.
4.4    Organization of Studies. The Organization and Distribution studies were consolidated and
carried-out by Booz Allen & Hamilton of Mexico (BAH), jointly with FERTIMEX's management and
with extensive participation of FERTIMEX's General Manager and Directors. The phosphate study
was carried out by ATFER Fertilizer Consultancy of France. Finally, the impact assessments of the
gypsum sea discharge at Lazaro Cardenas and of sea discharge of liquid effluent from the gypsum
deposit at Pajaritos were carried out by EPAC Consultores, S.C., of Mexico.
5.    Project Implementation
A. Policy Program Implementation
Implementation Schedule
5.1    The FSAL, which was approved on March 15, 1988 and signed on June 13, 1988 initially
encountered serious implementation delays and became effective only on November 2, 1989, i.e. over
a year after the originally planned date. The delays resulted from: (i) measures under the macro-
economic stabilization programs (Pacto and PECE) which froze fertilizer and fertilizer inputs prices
and made adherence to the originally agreed price increase schedule impossible; (ii) frequent
management changes in FERTIMEX; and (iii) the plant closure program included in the restructuring
agreement between the GOM and FERTIMEX (Convenio) submitted to the Bank as a condition of
effectiveness which did not include the agreed-upon list of plants. Due to these events effectiveness
was not declared, and the FSAL conditions were renegotiated in mid-1989 with consideration given to
the constraints imposed by the Government's program of macroeconomic stabilization. The resulting
amendments of the loan, guarantee, and project agreements preserved the objectives and integrity of
the sub-sector adjustment program and was approved by the Board and signed on September 26,
1989. The amendments included: (a) a revised schedule for input and output price increases; (b) the
establishment of conditions for release of the first tranche of the import component!'; and (c) revised
covenants for implementation of the plant closure program allowing the continued operation of three
ammonium sulfate plants originally intended for closure, under certain conditions (para. 5.9).
5.2    The first tranche of the import component was released on December 14, 1989, and fully
disbursed in February 1990, after the Loan and Guarantee Agreements were amended to allow GOM
to use part of the proceeds of the Loan for set-asides in support of Mexico's debt reduction program
(para. 3.3). All revised conditions for the release of this first tranche had been met by October 1989,
one month before loan effectiveness, as follows: (i) fertilizer prices were increased by 18.8% in
nominal peso terms on July 26, 1989; (ii) the price of sulfur was increased to at least export parity on
2/ Later it was agreed to use the entire first tranche as set-aside in support of Mexico's debt reduction
program (para. 3.3).



July 31, 19892'; (iii) all studies were initiated; and (iv) FERTIMEX had begun withdrawal from
retail distribution.
5.3    The conditions for the second tranche release were all met by mid-July 1991, and the tranche
was released in September 13, 1991, about 15 months behind the amended schedule date (March
1990) and 26 months behind the originally scheduled date (April 1989). The main causes of this
delay were: (i) some delays in fertilizer price increases due to PECE negotiations during the first part
of 1990; (ii) slower-than-expected withdrawals from consignment and retail distribution4'; (iii) delays
in the completion of the distribution study; and (iv) the original investment program presented by
FERTIMEX for 1991 was not acceptable to the Bank because it included a financing gap and the
completion of uneconomic ammonia spheres and warehouses investments.
5.4    After these initial delays, progress on the overall program of sectoral adjustment was fully
satisfactory. Early in the implementation of FERTIMEX's restructuring, GOM and FERTIMEX's
management embarked on an ambitious program aiming at the complete decontrol of the sector and
the total privatization of FERTIMEX. This program was implemented at an accelerated pace, and, as
of December 1992, the sector had been completely decontrolled, all production assets had been sold
to private owners, FERTIMEX had stopped all distribution activities, and all other assets were being
liquidated. This accelerated program was not contemplated in the Project and reflected policy
decisions going beyond the commitments under the Project. The Salinas administration, which took
office in December 1988, had more ambitious goals in sector and economic restructuring and was
instrumental in accelerating and enlarging this program of sectoral reform.
The Policy Program
5.5    The Policy Program supported under the FSAL aimed at financial self-sufficiency for
FERTIMEX by the end of 1993, through a program of price increases and physical, organizational,
and financial restructuring. The main measures of this program were implemented as follows:
(a)    Prices of Fertilizer
5.6    Over a period of four years (1989-1993) the Program called for: (i) an increase in the
weighted average of controlled fertilizer prices by at least 18.8% in nominal Peso terms by September
30, 1989; and (ii) increases of 12.3% per year in constant end-1987 US Dollar terms, beginning in
1990 and ending when prices had reached import parity or FERTIMEX had achieved financial self-
sufficiency. Financial self-sufficiency was defined as fertilizer list prices sufficient to cover
production, distribution and marketing, administrative overhead, all financial charges, and an 8%
return on equity invested in all new projects. After initial delays in 1988 and early 1989 (para. 5.1),
the agreed fertilizer price increase of 18.8% in nominal pesos was implemented as of July 26, 1989.
In 1990, fertilizer prices were increased by 20% on May 28, by another 20% on September 1, and by
3/ Effective September 5, 1989, it was agreed that the price of sulfur was to be automatically adjusted
in line with export parity whenever the international reference price varied by more than 5%.
4/Due to the withdrawal of the Banco Nacional de Cr6dito Rural (BANRURAL) from fertilizer
distribution, FERTIMEX consignment sales increased from 40% of total sales in 1987 to 60% in
11/89/90. As a result of the increase in consignment sales, the target for withdrawal established for
the second tranche, which represented a modest 10% of 1987 total sales (430,000 tons), was
increased to 30% of total sales in 1990 (1.5 million tons).



- 9 -
a further 13% on November 16. Fertilizer prices increased by about 30% in end-1987 dollar terms
during 1990, far exceeding the 12.3% per year real increase specified in the Loan Agreement for the
year. These increases were sufficient to cover most of the required increases for 1991 as well. At
the end of 1990, the average domestic fertilizer price reached about 90% of import (or export) parity
as compared with 47% in April 1987, 69% at the end of 1987 and 59% at the end of 1988. As of
October 30, 1991, a new fertilizer pricing system was introduced. In this pricing system, (i) prices
for FERTIMEX were set at plant gate, based on international prices, and were differentiated by plant;
(ii) controlled prices for each of the 198 primary warehouses, whether operated by FERTIMEX or the
private sector, to which FERTIMEX limited its deliveries (para. 5.12), were set based on plant gate
prices plus transport and handling costs; and (iii) prices to final consumers were left to market forces
and only suggested by FERTIMEX. In addition, private producers were free to determine their
prices. Also as an incentive to attract the private sector to retail and wholesale distribution,
FERTIMEX introduced payment conditions with a 10% down payment and the balance due at 150
days. By the end of 1991 and during 1992, wholesale prices were 12-15% higher than their
international parity. This margin was necessary to FERTIMEX to compensate for the financial cost
of generous payment conditions. This fertilizer pricing system functioned well until FERTIMEX
withdrew completely from fertilizer distribution early in 1993. Therefore, the covenant requiring
price increases to the level of import parity was fully met. Domestic prices of fertilizers and their
international parity, actual and as estimated at appraisal, are presented for the period 1986-92 in Part
III, para. 6.B.1.
(b)    Prices of Fertilizer Raw Materials
5.7    The Policy Program also stipulated that controlled prices of domestic sulfur paid by
FERTIMEX should reach export parity before September 30, 1989 and thereafter be maintained at
this level; and ammonia prices paid by FERTIMEX to PEMEX should reach 80% of the export price
by the end of 1993 according to an agreed program. International and domestic prices of raw
materials, actual and as projected at appraisal, are compared in Part III, para. 6.B. 1 for the period
1987-93. Implementation was as follows:
(i)    The price of sulfur was increased above export parity on July 31, 1989; beginning October
10, 1989, prices were regularly adjusted to remain in line with export parity whenever the
international reference price of sulfur varied by more than 5%. Finally, on August 3, 1990, prices
were fully decontrolled, resulting in overcompliance with the conditions set in the guarantee
agreement; and
(ii)   The nominal peso price of ammonia remained frozen at the end-December 1987 level as part
of GOM economic stabilization program. In current dollar terms, the price of ammonia decreased to
about US$44 per ton (40% of export parity by the end of 1988, and US$38 (51 % of export parity) at
the end of 1989. On June 1990 the price of ammonia paid by FERTIMEX to PEMEX was increased
by 20% in nominal peso terms to reach 56% of export parity and was increased by 75% in November
1990 to about US$72 equivalent, or 65% of its export price, thus meeting the 50% and 60% of
export parity stipulated in the loan agreement respectively for end-1990 and end-1991. The price then
remained unchanged until April 1992, when it was set at export parity, with monthly revisions, taking
advantage of the very low export price of 1992 (US$74.5 FOB Coatzacoalcos). Export parity was
defined ex-Cosoleacaque as the published price for Tampa, Florida less US$20 transport and handling
cost. Prices for all other Mexican locations were based on the above price plus domestic transport
and handling costs. In 1993, after divestiture of all FERTIMEX's production facilities, PEMEX
decided to set ammonia prices at the full Tampa price, thus increasing prices in Mexico by US$20.
The new private fertilizer producers complained and obtained a US$5 price concession through



- 10 -
negotiations with PEMEX. Overall, the increases for the price of ammonia exceeded the conditions
set in the Loan Agreement in terms of both timing and amount.
(c)    Links between PEMEX and FERTIMEX for Ammonia and Urea Production
5.8    On November 15, 1988, as a condition of Loan effectiveness, an agreement was signed
between PEMEX and FERTIMEX including procedures to facilitate closer operating coordination of
ammonia and downstream urea plants and to ensure more rational planning of new investments.
Following this agreement, the operation of FERTIMEX's urea plants improved significantly,
minimizing the inefficiencies which had arisen from the lack of integration of ammonia and urea
plants (para. 6.9 and para. 6.A.2 of Part III). Since the divestiture of FERTIMEX, PEMEX and the
new private producers negotiate prices directly.
(d)    Plant Closure Program
5.9   In 1986 and 1987, before the loan was approved, FERTIMEX closed a total of 12 plants on
five production sites with a total capacity of 788,000 tons of finished products and 429,000 tons of
intermediates. The Policy Program under the loan included an additional closure program for 1988
and 1989 involving the closure of 938,700 tons of finished product capacity and 178,550 tons of
associated intermediate product capacity. Accordingly, the phosphoric acid plant of Coatzacoalcos,
the small Tecun Uman complex fertilizer plant (66,000 tpy) owned by FERTIMEX in Guatemala, and
the sulfuric acid plants 1 and 2 of Guadalajara were closed in February/March 1988. The phosphoric
acid plant of Monclova was closed in June 1990, six months behind schedule (subsequently, the plants
of Tecun Uman and Guadalajara were sold early in 1992). As already commented (para. 5.1) the
plant closure program was amended before Loan effectiveness to allow the continued operation of the
ammonium sulfate plants of Queretaro, Guadalajara, and Coatzacoalcos under continuous monitoring,
as long as specified input/output international price ratios did not fall below agreed plant-specific
levels. Until November 1990 the operation of these plants showed input/output ratios above those
specified for either close monitoring or closure. Between November 1990 and August 1991, the
operation of the three plants showed ratios lower than the specified and their viability was thus closely
monitored and reported by FERTIMEX. The fertilizer plant of Coatzacoalcos was sold in March
1991 and is reported to have completely stopped operations. Finally, input/output price ratios
improved again in August 1991 and the operation of Guadalajara and Queretaro remained marginally
justified until they were sold, respectively, in March and July 1992. It is reported that these
ammonium sulfate plants are currently operating at reduced capacity due to competition from imports
of ammonium sulfate by distributors, resulting in the suspension of operations of the large two-
thousand-ton capacity sulfuric acid plant of Queretaro.
(e)    Withdrawal from Consignment and Retail Distribution Operations
5.10   An important objective of the FSAL was the rationalization of the distribution system to
reduce state participation and to attract private sector investment. For this purpose it was agreed that
FERTIMEX would: (i) withdraw completely over five years from retail and consignment distribution
and reduce operations and supervision activities from about 2,600 sales outlets to no more than 120
wholesale warehouses, except in marginal areas; (ii) carry out and complete before March 15, 1990, a
two-phase distribution study to define a plan of action for FERTIMEX's withdrawal and design a
system of incentives to motivate private distribution agents to take charge of distribution and storage
at the retail level; (iii) initiate the withdrawal from consignment and/or retail operations by October
15, 1989; and, by February 28, 1990, withdraw from consignment and/or retail operations of an
aggregate volume equivalent to more than 10% of all FERTIMEX sales of solid fertilizer in 1987;



- 11 -
and (iv) complete the implementation of the defined plan of action by no later than December 31,
1992.
5. l    By the end of 1989 FERTIMEX began a slow and gradual process of withdrawal from
secondary distribution services by withdrawing from the provision of bulk-blended materials to
Ingenios Azucareros and to the Mexican Coffee Institute. Withdrawal from retail and consignment
operations remained insignificant until early 1991, due to: (i) the withdrawal of BANRURAL from
fertilizer distribution, which increased FERTIMEX's consignment operations from 40% of total sales
in 1987 to 60% in 1989/90 (para. 5.3, footnote 4); and (ii) delays in the distribution study, which was
completed on September 30, 1990 as part of an integrated distribution and organization study.
However, early in 1990, FERTIMEX management decided to disengage from primary distribution as
well as from secondary distribution, and, with the assistance of BAH, initiated an ambitious program
to (a) define the strategy and systems necessary for an orderly withdrawal; (b) identify solutions to
problems that might arise from withdrawal; (c) prepare and negotiate direct sales contracts in
substitution for consignment sales; (d) prepare and negotiate contracts for the transfer of consignment
inventories; and (e) articulate a system of prices and margins that would permit withdrawal from
retail distribution and help attract the private sector to both production and distribution during the
transition period until subsidies are eliminated. The Bank strongly supported these actions and
pressed GOM to rapidly implement the pricing system, which was proposed by FERTIMEX as a
prerequisite to withdrawal from distribution and divesture of production and distribution facilities.
This pricing system consisted of the following:
(i)    ex-plant prices equivalent to international prices;
(ii)   controlled, subsidized prices set at 198 ex-primary warehouses, whether operated by
FERTIMEX or private agents, and differentiated regionally to reflect differences in transport
costs, with downstream prices left to market forces; and
(iii)   margins sufficient to provide incentives for the operation of primary warehouses by the
private sector.
5.12   By the end of 1990, FERTIMEX stopped all new consignment operations, and started to sign
direct sales contracts with private distributors and began to limit deliveries to the 198 primary
warehouses. Because of the excellent preparation work done by FERTIMEX, the number of such
direct sales contracts increased from 8 in December 1990 to 85 in April 1991 (for about 1 million
tons per year). In addition, 102 contracts had been signed by then to transfer about 540,000 tons of
consignment inventories. By mid-1991: (i) FERTIMEX was limiting deliveries exclusively to 198
primary warehouses, of which only 28 were operated by FERTIMEX; (ii) sales through the 28
FERTIMEX agencies represented less than 20% of total sales for the first semester of 1991; and (iii)
consignment sales, which represented 41% of total sales in 1987 and 58% in 1990, accounted for less
than 2.5% of sales in the first semester of 1991 and 1% for the whole year. FERTIMEX's total and
consignment sales for 1986-92 are presented in Part III, para. 6.A.5.
5.13   During the period between October 1991, when GOM approved a pricing system in which ex-
FERTIMEX prices were set at plant gate, based on international prices (para. 5.6), and the end of
1992, when all FERTIMEX's production plants were divested, FERTIMEX owned 51 primary
warehouses out of 198 nationwide, but, operated directly only 17. Sales through these 17 warehouses
ac-ounted for less than 20% of total FERTIMEX domestic sales. By the end of 1992, only 10,000
tons of consignment inventories remained out of about 1.15 million tons in 1989. Early in 1993,
after divestiture of all its production facilities, FERTIMEX withdrew completely from all distribution



- 12 -
activities, including secondary, primary, and the operation of the small marketing company created to
regulate the fertilizer market during a limited transition period. This complete withdrawal from
distribution represented overcompliance with the condition set in the Project Agreement. The private
sector reacted quickly and positively to FERTIMEX's withdrawal from fertilizer distribution and the
now fully decontrolled fertilizer sector. During FERTIMEX's withdrawal from production and
distribution, domestic and imported fertilizer remained available to farmers and no shortages were
reported. This was the result of the excellent preparation work made by FERTIMEX before starting
its withdrawal.
(f)    Fertilizer Imports Tariffs
5.14   Although the project Guarantee Agreement obliged the Government to maintain tariffs on
major fertilizers at their December 15, 1987 level of 0%, these duties were increased to 10% as part
of a broad tariff harmonization program supported by the Bank. Since this increase was motivated by
the desire to harmonize tariffs across sectors and since the 10% tariff was below the then prevailing
weighted average Mexican tariff, the Bank accepted to waive the respective condition and the
Guarantee Agreement was amended consequently on December 10, 1991. However, as anticipated in
the President's Report, as soon as prices reached their international level, fertilizer distributors started
importing product in response to increases in fertilizer prices above international prices attempted by
the new plant owners, and to take advantage of depressed international prices. Also, as of mid-1993,
some new producers temporarily had stopped the operation of their intermediate fertilizer plants, and
were using imported fertilizer intermediates to take advantage of low international prices for sulfuric
and phosphoric acids.
(g)    Financial Restructuring
5.15   To ensure that FERTIMEX could operate on a sound financial basis and reach financial
autonomy by 1992, GOM agreed to assume the equivalent of US$880 million, or 85% of
FERTIMEX's long term debt, over the three-year period 1988-1990. Also, to strengthen
FERTIMEX's financial performance, the restructuring agreement between FERTIMEX and the GOM
(Convenio), the Project Agreement, and the Guarantee Agreement included the following financial
targets: a long term debt/equity ratio of no more than 40/60; a current ratio of no less than 1.1 in
1988, 1.2 in 1989, 1.3 in 1990, 1.4 in 1991 and 1.5 in 1992 and beyond; and a projected long term
debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.0.
5.16   The assumption of the long term debt took place in the agreed amounts and at the agreed
dates, i.e. 25% in November 1988, 50% in June 1989 and 25% in June 1990. As a result,
FERTIMEX achieved a very low long term debt/equity ratio, as the long term debt/equity ratio
decreased from about 40/60 in 1987 to a low level of 2/98 in 1990. However, the expected positive
impact on FERTIMEX liquidity resulting from the low level of long-term debt and FERTIMEX's cost
reduction efforts were canceled out in 1989, due to delays in Government operating bridge term
transfers and delays in price increases (due to the PACTO/PECE defacto price freeze). At end of
1989, FERTIMEX's liquidity situation became very poor with a current ratio of only 0.7, down from
I. I at the end of 1988, and much below the 1.2 level FERTIMEX should have maintained during
1989 under the Project and Guarantee Agreements. This deterioration was due to insufficient and late
operational budget transfers during 1989 and to delays in price increases which forced the company to
contract substantial additional short term debt from commercial banks (para. 5. 1).
5.17   FERTIMEX's current ratio improved in 1990 and 1991, from 0.67 at the end of November
1990 to 0.91 at the end of December 1990, 1.13 at the end of June 1991, and 1.66 at the end of



- 13 -
December 1991, exceeding the current ratio covenant of 1.4 specified for 1991. This important
improvement in FERTIMEX's liquidity was the result of: (i) the restructuring of Mex$420 billion of
short term debt to long term debt with BANAMEX (equivalent to about US$135 million); (ii)
domestic price increases; (iii) greater efficiency in distribution due to FERTIMEX's withdrawal to
only 198 primary distribution warehouses (para. 5.12); (iv) significant fertilizer exports at higher
prices; (v) sales of consignment inventories at prices higher than their book value; (vi) divestiture
and/or closing of uneconomic plants; and (vii) better plant capacity utilization and efficiency. After
the restructuring of FERTIMEX's short term debt, the debt/equity ratio increased to 8/92, but
remained well below the agreed level (40/60).
5.18   On June 16, 1992, the GOM assumed most of the remaining long-term liabilities of
FERTIMEX to facilitate its complete privatization. These liabilities included: (i) all FERTIMEX
liabilities to the Bank (US$62 million) including US$40 million under this loan; and (ii) all
FERTIMEX long-term liabilities to BANAMEX. Following this additional debt assumption and the
divestiture of all FERTIMEX's productive assets, the Debt/Equity ratio decreased to 0.2/99.8 and the
current ratio increased to 1.69 at the end of December 1992 and to 1.81 at end of April 1993. Both
ratios remained well within the agreed levels for 1992 and 1993. The status of compliance with the
financial covenants for the debt/equity ratio and current ratios is summarized in para. 6.B.4 of Part
111.
(h)    Organizational Restructuring
5.19   An important objective of the FSAL was to define how FERTIMEX should be organized to
efficiently carry out its new medium and long term strategy. Under the project it was agreed that
FERTIMEX would formulate a 5-year strategic plan, carry out a study to review various
organizational options and determine the optimum organizational structure necessary to efficiently
fulfill its revised functions, and carry out this plan and implement the study's recommendations. As
indicated in paras. 4.4 and 5.55 (i), in light of the accelerated progress made by GOM and
FERTIMEX in defining the options for the restructuring program and their decision to disengage
from primary as well as secondary distribution, the organization study was consolidated with the
distribution study into a "Structural Change and Re-Dimensioning study (Cambio Estructural y
Redimensionamiento).
5.20   Assisted by BAH, FERTIMEX quickly selected a sector restructuring option by mid-1989.
The objective of the proposed option was to divide FERTIMEX into four independent regional
companies which would eventually attract private participation in production and distribution. This
objective was to be reached within a three year period in several steps: (i) the creation of four
autonomous regional companies selling their output at equivalent import prices minus a distribution
fee to cover part of distribution overhead cost, and paying international prices for inputs; (ii) the
simultaneous creation of a marketing company, mainly to administer the fertilizer subsidy until it was
eliminated and import parity of controlled prices was achieved; (iii) the maintenance of a small
corporate headquarters responsible for strategic and financial planning; (iv) the privatization of a few
smaller, less important plants and subsidiaries; (v) the withdrawal from secondary distribution and the
possible involvement of the private sector in primary distribution as well; and (vi) the participation of
the private sector in the establishment of new plants. Furthermore, the proposed option considered a
second phase in which: (a) headquarters would disappear, leaving four completely independent and
competing regional companies; and (b) the marketing company would disappear once prices had been
deregulated and fertilizer subsidies eliminated.



- 14 -
5.21   The Bank analyzed the above program and shared its comments and suggestions with
FERTIMEX management. This initial restructuring proposal was already significantly beyond the
commitments under the FSAL. However, early in 1990, FERTIMEX submitted a far reaching
revised proposal to the interministerial Comision de Gasto y Financianiento (Comission for
Expenditures and Financing) for review and approval. FERTIMEX management presented this
proposal to the Bank for comments prior to finalization. In this revised proposal, FERTIMEX
proposed the complete privatization of all FERTIMEX activities (production as well as distribution)
within a three-year period in two major phases: (i) a first phase consistent with the option proposed
earlier of restructuring FERTIMEX into four regional production companies and a marketing
company, the rehabilitation of the production capacity, the creation of a pricing system based on
international prices for the production companies, and a system of commissions for distributors
designed to cover distribution costs and prices ex-distributors which were to be controlled initially but
differentiated to reflect freight differentials; and (ii) a second phase in which FERTIMEX would
divest all its production and distribution infrastructure. During this period prices would be
liberalized, but the marketing company would retain a presence in distribution as a regulator. The
Bank and FERTIMEX considered the fertilizer subsidy was the main bottleneck to privatization
efforts and advocated a rapid move to market prices. In addition, the Bank felt that the immediate
removal of the subsidy would eliminate the need for a marketing agency. The Bank was concerned
that the establishment of such a large public marketing agency could have the following potential
drawbacks: discouraging private sector participation in production, increasing risks of inefficiency
due to its monopolistic position, and continuing the lack of transparency in the administration of the
subsidy.
5.22   FERTIMEX, assisted by BAH, advanced well in the process of reorganization and
restructuring before and during the process of divestiture. The following measures were
implemented:
(a)    Four regional production companies were created, new managers appointed, and most
headquarters functions were decentralized. However, the legal constitution of the regional
companies was not completed because: (i) privatization proceeded faster than originally
anticipated; (ii) distribution of assets and liabilities between companies and individual plants
proved more difficult than anticipated; and (iii) application of the 10% asset transfer tax on
transactions between affiliated companies.
(b)    Marketing activities were decentralized into seven regions. By the end of 1992, after
divestiture of all productive assets, the Government created a small marketing company to
regulate the fertilizer market during a limited transition period. However, in April 1993, the
Government dissolved this entity in light of the positive reaction of the sector to market forces
(para. 5.13).
(c)    Major staff reductions in production and marketing activities were implemented. Total staff at
FERTIMEX headquarters was reduced to 650 by 1993 from a 1989 level of 2,400. In 1990,
FERTIMEX also carried out a job grading exercise of plant personnel, including a revision of
salary scales and job definitions.
(d)    The number of union contracts was reduced and contracts were renegotiated.
(e)    Cost accounting systems were improved and separate financial statements prepared for each
plant.



- 15 -
(f)    FERTIMEX prepared for the first time in 1990 a plan outlining the company's detailed
strategy for reaching efficiency and restructuring goals.
(g)   Internal performance agreements between central FERTIMEX management and each
production and distribution region were prepared which included financial incentives for goals
reached.
5.23   Due to the GOM and FERTIMEX management decision to accelerate the second phase of the
program, including privatization of the entire fertilizer sector, the first phase of the agreed
reorganization program was not fully implemented (para. 5.21). However, the planning process
played an essential role in the preparation of FERTIMEX for divestiture, providing the basis for a
quick and orderly withdrawal from fertilizer distribution and the rapid divestiture of all productive
assets.
The Privatization Process
5.24   The privatization of FERTIMEX productive assets began during March 1991 and proceeded
quickly and was concluded 21 months later, in December 1992. The plants were sold for cash prior
to complete rehabilitation, free of any liabilities. Current assets were sold separately from productive
facilities, with preference given to the plant purchaser. The bidding procedure was well-defined and
transparent, and was designed to attract purchasers with management skills necessary for efficient
operation of the facilities.
5.25   The first plant to be sold was the ammonium sulfate plant of Torreon in March 1991. The
program concluded in December 1992 with the sale of FERTIMEX's largest and most problematic
industrial complex, Lazaro Cardenas. A total of 13 plants (including one in Guatemala) were sold
individually in four phases. The first group included the so-called "non-priority" small plants of
Coatzacoalcos, Torreon, Monclova, Guadalajara, Salamanca and Tecun-Uman. The second group
included the medium-size plants of Bajio, Camargo and Queretaro. The third group included the two
large plants of Pajaritos Fosfatados and Pajaritos Nitrogenados, which initially were sold as a package
to facilitate the sale of the older plant, Pajaritos Fosfatados.5' The fourth and final group included
the Minatitlan complex and the Lazaro Cardenas complex. The latter was sold as a package with the
problematic ROFOMEX phosphate mine in Baja California. Detailed information on the divestiture
of each plant is presented in Annex 3. including plant production capacity, date of start-up, date of
divestiture, new owner and sale price. The privatization of the fertilizer plants started with the sale of
small and medium units (whose sale is simple and politically low risk) and moved to larger and more
complicated units after learning-by-doing and when prices of fertilizer and ammonia were already
deregulated.
5.26   The Privatization Unit (Unidad de Desincorporacion) of SHCP has been responsible for
the coordination, supervision and sale of all FERTIMEX productive units. Final decisions, however,
rested with the interministerial Comision de Gasto y Financiamiento. Banco International (10
plants) and Banco SERFIN (3 plants) were appointed as financial agents to handle the sales. The
financial agents based the financial valuation of the plants on three valuation methods which were (i)
net present value (NPV), (ii) book value, and (iii) asset value. The valuation study provided a
technical reference price, which was used as a secret benchmark to evaluate the offers. Following the
5lFollowing privatization, the new owners sold the phosphate fertilizer plant of Pajaritos Fosfatados
to another group.



- 16 -
financial valuation and the preparation of prospectuses for each plant, offers were invited through a
closed competitive bidding mechanism. Negotiations were held with the highest bidder to determine
the final contract. All plants were sold after a first round of bids with the exception of Guadalajara,
Salamanca and Tecun-Uman. The first bids received for these three plants did not reach the pre-
established reference price and required a second round of bids.
5.27   FERTIMEX involvement in the privatization process was in principle limited to the provision
of information needed for the preparation of prospectuses and assistance during plant visits by
prospective purchasers. In fact, the General Manager and the directors of FERTIMEX, using their
knowledge of the sector, provided specialized assistance to the Unidad de Desincorporacion
and to the financial agent for the definition of the sales strategy, the packaging of plants, the
identification of potential buyers, and the international and domestic promotion of sales. However,
the divestiture of FERTIMEX plants did not attract foreign companies for the following possible
reasons: (i) chronic overcapacity and low prices in the international fertilizer sector, which has
remained depressed since the mid-1980s; (ii) the low efficiency and poor condition of FERTIMEX
plants; and (iii) ammonia production was still reserved for PEMEX (para. 7.4).
5.28   No significant opposition from labor took place during the reorganization and divestiture of
FERTIMEX. This absence of opposition allowed the reorganization and privatization programs to
proceed smoothly and quickly. This lack of conflict was the result of: (i) the acceptable compensation
package paid to personnel at termination and the timing of layoffs, most of which took place during
the reorganization phase and before divestiture; (ii) the protection of labor interests through the strict
application of union rights of first refusal, which under the state enterprise law allows the unions to
acquire a company undergoing privatization by matching the highest bid;@ and (iii) the excellent
relationship between FERTIMEX's general manager and the unions.
5.29   The privatization of FERTIMEX productive assets generated a modest US$320 million in cash
from the sale of all 13 plants, including substantial balances of current assets, reflecting limited
private sector interest. All FERTIMEX liabilities, totalling US$ 523 million, were assumed by the
Government prior to divestiture. The Lazaro Cardenas complex was sold for about US$50 million
(including the ROFOMEX phosphate mine), compared to a project base cost of US$646 million (total
financing cost, including interest charges and working capital, amounted to US$ 801 million) as
estimated in 1987. However, privatization eliminated the GOM budgetary transfers to FERTIMEX
for operations and capital expenditures, which averaged US$192 millionper annum during 1986-91.
In addition, the restructuring resulted in an open, competitive sector, avoided the formation of a
private monopoly, and greatly reduced the likelihood of future policy reversals (para. 6.1).
5.30   Following the privatization of all production facilities at the end of 1992, the Government
appointed a liquidator to sell the remaining non-productive assets, including inventories and
distribution facilities consisting of 42 warehouses, 20 ammonia spheres, and 2 maritime terminals.
Since April 1993, the liquidator has assumed full management responsibility for FERTIMEX. The
full liquidation of the company is expected to be completed during 1994. All FERTIMEX personnel
was laid-off on December 31, 1992; those remaining were contracted on a short term basis by the
liquidator. As of July 1993, 438 staff remained with FERTIMEX, including 28 staff employed
directly by the liquidator. The liquidator is responsible for managing the sale of all non-productive
6LUnder this provision, Camargo and Bajio were sold to Sindicato de la Industria
Quimica, Petroquimica, Carboquimica y Conexos (Union of the Chemical Industry) for
US$8.2 million and US$31.5 million, respectively.



- 17 -
assets within pre-defined norms. The final approval of any condition outside the established norms
rests with the Comision de Apoyo al Liquidator (Liquidation Support Committee) composed of
representatives from: (i) the Comptroller General (SECOGEF); (ii) SEMIP; (iii) Directorate of Norms
of SHCP; (iv) the Privatization Unit of SHCP; and (v) the Directorate of Expenditures of SHCP.
The valuation of buildings, warehouses and terminals is the responsibility of the Commission for the
Valuation of National Goods (CABIN). The liquidator appointed Banco Internacional as sales and
financial agent to value all assets not under the mandate of CABIN (including spare parts, equipment)
and define the sales strategy for each package. Bids are invited in accordance with Mexican
competitive bidding norms. The liquidator anticipated some problems in the sale of the remaining
assets due to: (i) the high degree of specificity of certain assets (e.g., spare parts for plants already
sold); (ii) unsettled legal titles for many pieces of land with distribution facilities; and (iii) PEMEX
current distribution and concession policy for ammonia sales for direct application, which impacts the
sale of assets used in ammonia distribution.
B.  Implementation of the Investment Components
5.31   The investment program financed under the Loan was adjusted several times during
implementation to reflect changes in priorities identified during implementation of policy action plans
and the restructuring and privatization process. The implementation and status of each investment
component are described below.
(a)    Completion of the Pajaritos Solid Ammonium Nitrate Plant
5.32   In 1984, FERTIMEX initiated the construction of a 600,000 tpy Urea-Ammonium Nitrate
solution (UAN) plant within the Pajaritos fertilizer complex, with the objective of exporting nitrogen
fertilizer solutions. This new nitrogen fertilizer production facility included the construction of a
40,000 tpy concentrated nitric acid plant. In 1986, when world market prices fell, FERTIMEX
decided to: (i) add a solid ammonium nitrate (SAN) plant with a capacity of 270,000 tpy and the
necessary product storage and handling to satisfy the domestic market needs; and (ii) delete the
nitrogen solutions and concentrated nitric acid production plants. At FSAL appraisal, the investment
was about 30% completed, but completion was being held-up since 1986 due to lack of financing.
The anticipated appraised economic rate of return for this subproject in April 1987 was 21% and
plant production was expected to replace output lost due to the plant closure program and meet the
expected increase in market demand. The completion cost of this subproject, estimated to cost
US$48.3 million at appraisal was financed under the Loan. Commercial operation was expected to
start by April 1990.
5.33   In mid-1990, during supervision, the Bank discovered that FERTIMEX had restarted the
construction of the UAN and concentrated acid plants, and that these plants were being built at a level
of capacity which was would absorb the entire output of upstream plants. This was an unnecessary
and expensive duplication of finished product capacity. At the request of the Bank, the construction
of these plants was suspended at the end of 1990, and full priority was given to the completion of the
Pajaritos SAN plant.
5.34   The subproject was subject to cost escalations and delays, as compared to appraisal estimates
of April 1987, for the following reasons: (i) the very poor initial project management and control
(para. 4.3); (ii) the lack of multi-year investment budgets; and (iii) the decision to change the project
scope again during implementation. Only when an experienced project manager was brought on
board did the pace of implementation improve. Subsequently, FERTIMEX management decided to



- 18 -
stop all expenditures effective end-April 1992 due to the divestiture program of the entire Pajaritos
complex, although the Pajaritos SAN plant was nearly completed. The diluted nitric acid unit began
operation in May 1992, about 27 months behind schedule and about 10 years after the construction
the project had started; the ammonium nitrate solution unit was completed and being prepared for
start-up; the prilling unit was 99% completed; the product handling, bagging and storage facilities
were completed and tested; and the construction of the concentrated nitric acid and UAN units, not
financed by the Bank, were also well advanced. It is estimated that remaining works (excluding UAN
and concentrated nitric acid plants) could have been completed in less than one month at a cost of
about US$300,000. At the end of June 1993, during the PCR preparation mission, the new owner
had not yet restarted construction. However, he indicated his intention to complete and operate the
plant, pending availability of necessary funds for working capital and investment for project
completion.
5.35   Investment cost since appraisal (April 1987) amount to US$72.9 million, 51% above appraisal
estimates. Total costs of this plant since 1984, when construction started, amount to US$97 million,
excluding costs of the UAN and concentrated nitric acid plants which were not part of the Bank
project. A large part of these cost overruns was due to the lengthy implementation delays and to the
sharp real peso appreciation that had occurred during the period 1988-91.
5.36   Because of the high costs and of the much lower currently projected prices of ammonium
nitrate than estimated at FSAL appraisal, the economic rate of return of the subproject is estimated at
approximately 1.9%. This level is far below the 21 % return expected at FSAL appraisal. If all costs
incurred until appraisal are considered as sunk-costs, and only completion costs since appraisal are
considered, the economic rate of return would increase to 4.4%. If in addition prices of ammonium
nitrate were to increase by 20%, the economic rate of return would reach about 11 %. Had
international prices of ammonia and ammonium nitrate risen as projected at appraisal, the economic
rate of return of the total project would have been 10.7%. Under this price scenario, the economic
rate of return would reach 15.5% when cost incurred prior to appraisal is considered as sunk cost. A
sensitivity analysis is presented in para. 6.C of Part III and detailed calculations of ERR are shown in
Annex 1.
5.37   In 1992 domestic sales of solid nitrogen fertilizer remained at their 1987 level of about 1.3
million tons of nutrient, while at appraisal demand had been projected at 1.76 million tons of nutrient.
At the time of appraisal, the 1992 supply/demand balance of nitrogen nutrients was projected to show
a deficit of more than 300,000 tpy. Instead, a surplus supply has accrued, amounting to 155,000 tpy
in 1991. If the solid ammonium nitrate plant had been in operation, this surplus could have increased
to about 245,000 tpy. During the past few years, the domestic market for solid ammonium nitrate
was depressed and the export market was limited. Given the weak market for solid ammonium
nitrate, the new owner will face difficulties in marketing the total potential SAN output of the plant.
The completion of the UAN solution plant suspended earlier may represent a viable diversification
into the export market. The new owners of the plant indicated that negotiations are currently
underway with Norsk Hydro of Norway to create a joint venture to complete and operate the UAN
plant.
(b)    Plant Rehabilitation
5.38   The plant rehabilitation program financed under the loan was adjusted several times during
implementation. A number of sub-projects were canceled and others added as priorities changed and



- 19 -
the pace of restructuring and privatization accelerated.2' Total rehabilitation expenses amounted to
US$14.6 million, or about 73% of estimated costs. The cancellation of many sub-projects would
have resulted in even lower expenditures; however, the rehabilitation of Lazaro Cardenas, added to
the FSAL in 1990, offset some of these savings (para. 3.4). Key events during implementation
included: (i) the rehabilitation of the phosphoric acid filters and the installation of Sanicro tubes in
the evaporator heat exchanger in Pajaritos Fosfatados, leading to increased capacity and efficiency
even when domestic phosphate rock is used; (ii) the cancellation of the gypsum water recyclation sub-
project in Pajaritos Fosfatados (para. 5.53); (iii) the rubber lining of the phosphoric acid reactors,
which eliminated a frequent cause of work stoppages at Lazaro Cardenas; (iv) the installation of
contaminated water pumps in Lazaro Cardenas to partly reduce the impact of gypsum sea disposal
(para. 5.49); and (v) the completion of the TSP plant in Lazaro Cardenas, which allowed
diversification of production. The rehabilitation projects proved to be economically justified (para.
6.9).
(c)    Maritime Terminals
5.39   To increase the efficiency of fertilizer transport, the project included the construction of two
maritime terminals at Topolobambo and Altamira and the retrofitting of dedicated existing bulk
facilities in five ports. Two of these port projects were canceled: (i) the Guaymas terminal became
uneconomic due to the port authority's decision to change the warehouse site; and (ii) the San Carlos
terminal was no longer justified in light of revised FERTIMEX distribution plans.
5.40   The construction of the three remaining small terminals was concluded before July 1989
(para. 4, Part III), six months ahead of appraisal schedule. However, due to an indefinite strike in
the contractor's workshop, FERTIMEX was obliged to cancel procurement of handling equipment,
which was already 83% completed. Although this issue is currently being settled in court, no major
financial losses to FERTIMEX are expected. In addition, FERTIMEX minimized the impact of this
cancellation on the normal operation of these maritime terminals by contracting external handling
services.
5.41   Upon opening of tenders for the first International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for the two
large terminals of Topolobampo and Altamira, costs were found to be very substantially higher than
estimated at appraisal. At these costs, the projects were no longer economically or financially viable.
The Bank recommended, and the FERTIMEX agreed, to declare void the first round of ICB and
revise the design of the terminals to make them consistent with the simple, economical design agreed
at appraisal. Tenders in response to a second ICB were opened on November 30, 1990. After final
clearance of the project design by Puertos Mexicanos, construction started on March 12, 1991 for
Topolobambo (under a contract equivalent to US$9.96 million), and on May 15, 1991 for Altamira
(under a contract equivalent to US$10.67 million), about 21 months and one year behind the
respective Bank appraisal estimates. Under the contracts, the construction of both terminals was
expected to be completed before the end of July 1992. However, the construction of the Altamira
terminal soon fell behind schedule due to adverse weather conditions in the region and problems with
suppliers.
7/Tlhe status and costs of all plant rehabilitation investments are summarized and compared with
appraisal estimates in Part III, Para 5 C. Investment costs and the status of each component for the
Pajaritos Fosfatados and the Lazaro Cardenas plants are given in Part III, Para 5 D and E.



- 20 -
5.42   As of September 1, 1992, due to large cost overruns in the construction of the maritime
terminals of Topolobampo and Altamira and to the acceleration of the FERTIMEX privatization
program, management decided to discontinue the construction of both terminals and to sell them
unfinished. Construction of Topolobampo was about 87% complete while Altamira was estimated to
be 80% complete.
5.43   Although the construction of the Guaymas and San Carlos terminals was canceled, total costs
of the remaining maritime terminals sub-project amounted US$31.2 million, about 10% higher than
appraisal estimates for all maritime terminals. Although actual costs of the smaller terminals were
lower than expected, high overruns occurred in the construction of the Altamira and Topolobampo
terminals. Total costs until construction was discontinued reached US$15.5 million for the Altamira
terminal, and US$14.0 million for Topolobampo. It is estimated that total completion costs will
amount to US$17.5 million for Altamira and US$15.7 million for Topolobampo. In current U.S.
dollar terms, these costs represent escalations of 47% and 83% over appraisal estimates for Altamira
and Topolobampo, respectively. They also represent 64% and 58% increases above the original
contract amounts. They are the result of: (i) the sharp real peso appreciation that had occurred during
the period 1987-91, as explained in the following paragraph; (ii) the need to finance off-site facilities
originally to be provided by the port authority (access railroad, provision of potable water, access
roads, and electrical connections), which amounted to about US$2 million; (iii) contract price
escalations well above general inflation; (iv) design changes after contract signature made without
Bank agreement which resulted in important variations in contract amounts; (v) construction of piers
designed for 30,000 ton ships versus 10,000 tons as agreed at appraisal; and (vi) contract
cancellation costs. At these levels, the two terminals are hardly economical -- the economic rate of
return would decrease from 13% estimated at appraisal to 4.7% for Topolobampo, and from 17.7%
estimated at appraisal to 9.2% for Altamira. Actual and appraisal estimates for capital costs, benefits,
and economic rates of return for Altamira, Topolobampo and the entire maritime terminals sub-
project are summarized in Part III, para. 6.C.1.
5.44   Appreciation of the peso explains the cost escalation for construction of the two maritime
terminals in relation to appraisal estimate made in April 1987. Actual maritime terminal cost when
adjusted to 1987 real peso terms using the national price index, and converted to US$ at end-1987
exchange rate, are US$7.4 million and US$8.1 million, respectively for Topolobampo and Altamira.
The resulting cost is in line with appraisal estimates in 1987 terms for Topolobampo. It is even lower
for Altamira, due to the important design simplification of the warehouse, included at Bank request in
the final design specification (para. 5.41). Despite the execution of the projects in line with appraisal
estimates (in 1987 dollars), actual cost in relation to the contract signed in 1990 exhibited large
escalations (in constant end-1990 peso terms) remain about 32% higher than initial contract amounts
for both terminals. These overruns are due to the already mentioned unforeseen need to provide for
off-site facilities that had been assumed to be provided as public infrastructure, changes in design
after contract signature, and contract cancellation costs.
(d)    Wholesale Storage facilities
5.45   Consistent with the policy to withdraw from retail operations and to maintain inventories in a
maximum of 120 primary storage facilities, the project included the financing of 14 bulk storage
facilities and four storage spheres for ammonia. These facilities formed part of FERTIMEX's
program to construct 71 new solid fertilizer warehouses and 20 ammonia storage spheres.
5.46   However, early during the implementation of the project (in early 1990), in light of its revised
distribution strategy (which foresaw the involvement of the private sector in primary as well as retail



- 21 -
distribution), FERTIMEX decided to cancel its plans to construct and operate all new warehouses,
except for the three most critical ones. Later on, at the end of 1991, as a result of withdrawal from
primary distribution of fertilizer and of the accelerated privatization process of all its plants,
FERTIMEX also canceled the construction of these three warehouses. The cancellation of the Oaxaca
warehouse took place after the Bank had given its no objection for the signing of the contract.
5.47   By mid-1990, it had been decided that the ammonia spheres would not be built, for the same
reasons as for the warehouses, and because revised costs estimates presented by FERTIMEX were far
above appraisal estimates, jeopardizing their economic viability. This decision proved even more
justified when, in April 1992, ammonia distribution for agricultural use was removed from the
exclusive domain of FERTIMEX and PEMEX started to distribute ammonia for agricultural use
directly from its own ammonia storage in quantities as small as 1,000 tons per year. This
development makes the ongoing efforts to sell FERTIMEX's existing large ammonia (3,000 tons)
spheres more difficult.
C. Environmental Aspects
5.48   The nitric acid and ammonium nitrate plants financed under the Loan were designed to meet
emission standards satisfactory to the Bank. Since the 1970s FERTIMEX had designed all new plants
to comply with national standards or the standards of the US Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA). In general, all plants built prior to the 1970's were designed with much lower standards than
those now in effect. However, the FERTIMEX plant closure program included those plants built
prior to the 1970's, thereby removing most of the plants in non-compliance with pollution standards.
The main environmental issues of this project were: (i) the impact of sea disposal of gypsum
produced by the phosphoric acid plant at Lazaro Cardenas; (ii) the impact of the gypsum water sea
disposal at the Pajaritos phosphoric acid plant; and (iii) the impact of sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions
from the sulfuric acid plants of Pajaritos.
The Lazaro Cardenas Plant Gypsum Disposal
5.49   The Lazaro Cardenas (LC) phosphate fertilizer complex was financed by the Bank (Loan
1686-ME). The potential negative environmental impact of this project was recognized from the
beginning and measures were introduced to reduce pollution effects to acceptable levels by selecting
modern processes. Initially, the project design included land disposal of the gypsum produced in the
phosphoric acid plants. However, early during the implementation of the LC project, after the 1979
earthquake, for seismic and economic reasons FERTIMEX changed this arrangement and designed
and built the plant with the gypsum (after dilution by the plant liquid effluent) discharged into the sea
about 1.2 kilometers from the shore. Following the commissioning of the plant in 1987, this system
was plagued with a series of problems, ranging from the rupture and plugging of the pipes to the
malfunctioning of the contaminated water dilution pumps (see Project Performance Audit Report No.
10259 and Project Completion Report, Loan 1686-ME). The change from land to sea disposal
method never received the approval of the Bank, which insisted from the outset on the need and
urgency to find and implement a permanent solution to this important pollution problem. In a letter
dated March 11, 1988 sent to the Bank prior to the approval of the FSAL, FERTIMEX committed
itself to take steps to resolve this pollution control problem, including through the installation of new
dilution pumps and a thorough reevaluation of the sealines to determine the appropriate measures to
be taken to ensure their proper functioning.
5.50   During a supervision visit to LC in October 1989, the Bank learned of the difficulties
encountered by FERTIMEX in solving the problem of gypsum and contaminated water disposal to the



- 22 -
sea. Both gypsum pipes had remained broken since start-up, and the contaminated water dilution
pumps were not installed. The gypsum was ejected through one of the pipes at about 100 meters
from the beach and the contaminated water was still being discharged to the sea through the plant's
drainage canal. To help FERTIMEX solve this problem, the Bank accepted to finance under the loan
two stand-by dilution water pumps, taking into account (i) the important data base accumulated from
observations and regular monitoring by FERTIMEX and the Secretarfa de Desarrollo
Urbano y Ecolog(a (SEDUE or Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology); and (ii) the
difficulties experienced by FERTIMEX in the construction and operation of this kind of disposal
system. The Bank recommended that the following two studies also be financed under the loan: (a)
an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) to be carried-out by a specialized consultant, to assess the
actual impact of gypsum and contaminated water sea disposal and recommend and define the needed
system; and (b) a study by an engineering firm specialized in undersea construction to design the
system recommended by the environmental consultant. The financing of the pumps and of the above
studies was included in the amendment to the Loan and Project Agreements, dated February 16, 1990
(para. 3.4).
5.51   At the request of SEDUE, FERTIMEX contracted the Mexican consulting firm EPAC, using
FERTIMEX funds, to carry-out the EIA. The study concluded that the impact of gypsum disposal
was limited to 200 meters around the discharge point (which was 100 meters from the shore), without
important ecological impact. No accumulation of gypsum was reported due to the strong currents and
surf in the region. After review of the final EPAC report, the Bank insisted on a more complete
follow-up EIA, to be carried out by a consulting firm with experience in gypsum sea discharges to be
financed under the loan. The terms of reference for this second study, the list of consulting firms and
the evaluation report were reviewed by the Bank. However, contracting was suspended by
FERTIMEX for the following reasons: (i) the Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL
or Ministry of Social Development, successor to SEDUE) decided to carry out a global environmental
study for the area and asked FERTIMEX to participate in said study; and (ii) due to another
earthquake, both discharge pipes were completely broken in September 1992, and the phosphoric acid
units were stopped. FERTIMEX initiated repairs on one of the discharge pipes, but did not complete
the work prior to the divestiture of LC in December 1992.
5.52   Before taking delivery of the plant, the new owner of LC reached an agreement with
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA or National Water Commission) to operate the phosphoric
acid plants with one of the gypsum discharge pipes repaired to a length of 70 meters. Under the
same agreement, the new owner was allowed two years to construct a pipe discharging at 300m from
the shore. This agreement also obliged the new owners to conduct a full EIA following completion of
the 300m gypsum pipe and to carry out any further works recommended by the study. The progress
on environmental issues made since privatization of LC, following years of delay, indicates that CNA
and SEDESOL may be more effective in enforcing compliance with private firms than with SOEs.
The Pajaritos Fosfatados Plant Gypsum Water Sea Disposal
5.53   At the Pajaritos Fosfatados plant, by-product gypsum from the phosphoric acid units is
slurried with sea water and pumped to settling ponds in the Carolino Anaya Laguna. This slurrying
water, contaminated with phosphoric acid, fluorine, and solid gypsum, overflows to the Gulf of
Mexico. At appraisal, the efficiency of the phosphoric acid plants was very low and the operation of
the gypsum settling ponds was unsatisfactory, resulting in high phosphoric acid and gypsum content in
the rejected water. To address this environmental issue and improve raw materials recovery, the
project included: (i) the rehabilitation of the phosphoric acid plants to improve efficiency
(rehabilitation of the filters and replacement of the heat exchangers); and (ii) a sub-project to recycle



- 23 -
contaminated water as process and cooling water and to improve the settling ponds to reduce water
percolation and evaporation. The rehabilitation of the phosphoric acid units has been implemented
and they are now operating at an acceptable level of efficiency. The operation of the settling ponds
was also improved and the content of solids in the gypsum water was reduced to acceptable levels.
However, FERTIMEX decided not to implement the water recycle sub-project due to high cost and
the acceleration of the Pajaritos Fosfatados plant divestiture. The Bank requested that FERTIMEX
prepare an EIA of the rejection of gypsum-contaminated water to the sea. This study was carried out
by the Mexican consulting firm EPAC and completed before the plant was delivered to its new
owner. The EPAC study concluded that the impact of contaminated gypsum water disposal was
minimal and limited to 60 meters around the discharge point. However, the new plant owner signed
an environmental agreement with CNA which requires the implementation within two years of the
recycling project described above. Therefore, the solution envisaged under the project is expected to
be implemented by the private sector.
S02 Emissions from the Sulfuric Acid Plants of Pajarntos Fosfatados
5.54   The two sulfuric acid plants of the Pajaritos Fosfatados complex are based on the single
absorption process and therefore have less than 97% sulfur recovery. To improve their efficiency and
reduce SO2 emissions, FERTIMEX added an ammonium sulfate solution recovery section to these
plants based on the exhaust gas scrubbing and stripping process. This project, which was started
before appraisal, was completed and commissioned in 1990. As of mid-1993, one of the sulfuric acid
plants was permanently closed and the second plant was not in operation due to the new owner's
decision to import sulfuric acid and/or phosphoric acid to take advantage of the currently depressed
international prices.
D.  ImpIementation of the Technical Assistance Comoonent
5.55   The status and impact of each study are presented in Part III, para. 5, D and are summarized
below:
(i)   In light of the early progress achieved in the definition of the options for restructuring and the
decision to disengage FERTIMEX from primary as well as secondary distribution, the
distribution and reorganization studies were consolidated into one study (Cambio
Estructural y Redimensionamiento), later followed by a complementary study to assist
FERTIMEX in the implementation of the proposed organization. The study provided the
basis for FERTIMEX's ambitious restructuring and privatization program. It also allowed
FERTIMEX to define the strategy for an orderly withdrawal from distribution.
(ii)   Even though FERTIMEX did not procure phosphate rock under ICB, the Bank considered
that the phosphate study was still worth carrying out, as it could provide FERTIMEX with
an optimization methodology for rock purchases. The study presented a diagnostic of all
phosphate fertilizer plants along with recommendations for the optimization of operations. In
addition, the consultant provided computer software for the evaluation of phosphate rock.
However, the main objective of the study, which was to prepare a bid evaluation methodology
for inclusion in bidding documents for rock purchases, was not fully achieved.
(iii)   The EIAs for Lazaro Cardenas gypsum sea disposal and the Pajaritos Fosfatados gypsum-
contaminated water sea disposal system are commented in detail in paras. 5.49 and 5.53
respectively.



- 24 -
(iv)   The improvement in planning systems was not implemented.
5.56   The total cost of the technical assistance component was about US$1.4 million, in line with
appraisal estimates. Actual and estimated costs of each study are presented in Part III, para. 5 B.
E.  Procurement
5.57   Many delays and misunderstandings occurred early in the procurement of goods and works
due to: (i) the initial lack of agreed bidding documents in accordance with Bank guidelines; and (ii)
the implementation of rehabilitation sub-projects by the four newly-created regional production
companies, which lacked any experience in the use of Bank procedures. These problems were solved
in mid-1989 when sample International Competitive Bidding documents were prepared jointly by the
Bank and the Government for all procurement under Bank-financed projects in Mexico. FERTIMEX
claims that adoption of these procedures was satisfactory and resulted in lower prices and better
quality of the procured equipment and works. However, a two-stage bidding process may have
proven more effective for contracting the construction of the maritime terminals. A two-stage process
may also have helped avoid the delays and problems encountered during construction of the Altamira
terminal.
5.58   From the US$50 million remaining import component, US$20.1 million was used to finance
direct procurement of phosphate rock in 1988 and 1989 as specified in the loan agreement, and about
US$ 30 million went to procurement through ICB of potassium chloride and sulfur. FERTIMEX
complained that: (i) prices obtained through ICB for sulfur were US$3 per ton higher than the price
obtained by concurrent direct negotiations; and (ii) prices obtained for potassium chloride were
substantially higher than could have been obtained through direct negotiations. However, these lower
prices for potassium chloride were from Eastern European countries, which were not eligible for ICB
at that time.
F.  Total Project Costs
5.59   Actual total Project cost amounted to US$320.12 million, versus US$346.4 million estimated
at appraisal and the revised estimate of US$341.93 million made in 1991 (following the inclusion of
the Lazaro Cardenas rehabilitation and cancellation of the warehouses and the implementation of the
water recycle project in Pajaritos). The actual foreign exchange component is estimated to US$260.5
million, in line with appraisal estimates. The major deviations from the original and revised estimates
are presented in Part III, para. 5.A and are summarized in Table 1 below.
5.60   Actual total project cost is 7.6% below appraisal estimates. The cost overruns of the Pajaritos
SAN plant (49%) more than compensated for the lower costs of: (i) the rationalization of the
distribution infrastructure component (41 % below estimates due to the cancellation of the warehouses
and ammonia spheres); and (ii) the rehabilitation of the production plants (27% below estimates as
already commented in para. 6.9)
G. Financin2
5.61   Total Bank financing amounted to US$240.2 million, versus US$265 million estimated at
appraisal. This shortfall was due exclusively to the reduced investment program, not to the policy
and technical assistance programs. Counterpart funds amounted to about US$80 million, in line with



- 25 -
Table 1
Proied Total Cods
(US$ miUion)
Appraia Edimates          Revised           Actual Cods              % Chane fro
Costs                                        Edimates
Total     Local    Forei2      Total      Total    Local    Foreign      SAR      Revised
Impor and Debt
Reduction
- lmports           200.0       0.0      200.0      50.0       50.0      0.0       50.0    (75.0)        0.0
- Debt                0.0       0.0        0.0      150.0     150.0      0.0      150.0      -           0.0
Sub-total    200.0       0.0     200.0      200.0      200.0      0.0      200.0       0.0        0.0
Rationalization
Investrnents
Amnu. Nitrate        48.7      26.9       21.9      65.3       72.9     35.5       37.4      49.5       11.6
Plants Rehab.        20.1       7.5       12.5      29.1       14.6      6.2        8.5    (27.1)      (49.8)
Distribution         76.2      46.5       29.7      33.0       31.2     17.7       13.4    (59.1)       (0.1)
Sub-total    145.0      80.9      64.1      127.4      118.7     59.5       59.2    (18.LU       68
Investments
Technical             1.4       0.5        0.9       1.9        1.3      0.2        1.2      (3.5)     (29.9)
Aaisttance
Non-allocated       -          -         -           12.6                         -
TOTAL COST        346.4      81.4      265.0      341.9     320.0     59.6      260.4                  &4)
appraisal estimates, and were financed by GOM  transfers. Total actual, estimated and revised project
costs and financing are summarized (i) by project components in Part III, para. 5.B; and (ii) by
category in the loan agreement in Part III, para. 5.F. A further breakdown of costs and financing of
investments and technical assistance is provided in Part III, paras. 5.C, 5.D and 5.E.
H. Disbursement Schedule
5.62    Substantial delays in disbursement occurred during 1988 and early 1989 due to the economic
stabilization program. Effectiveness was delayed more than one year (para. 5.1); the first tranche of
the import and debt reduction component was disbursed 16 months behind estimates (para. 5.2); and
the second tranche was released 15 months after the amended schedule and over 28 months behind
appraisal estimates (para. 5.3). After these initial delays, the pace of disbursement remained in line
with appraisal estimates. Actual, estimated and revised cumulative loan disbursements are provided
in Part III, para. 3.
5.63    Total loan disbursements reached US$240.2 million. NAFIN  requested the cancellation of
US$19 million on July 9, 1992 due to the cancellation of the warehouses, the ammonia spheres and of
part of the rehabilitation sub-projects. On August 10, 1993 NAFIN reimbursed the remaining Special
Account balance of US$3,605,869 to the Bank, reducing the total loan disbursement to US$240.2



- 26 -
million, equivalent to 90.6% of original loan amount. NAFIN requested the cancellation of the
remaining loan balance of US$5,800,692.45 on August 19, 1993.
6.     Project Results
(a) Policy Program Results
6.1    Total deregulation or the Fertilizer Sector. The main project objectives were: (i) total
withdrawal of FERTIMEX from retail distribution; (ii) increase of fertilizer prices to 85% of their
import/export parity; (iii) increases in raw material prices to approximate their international parity;
and (iv) increase in competition from imports. All these objectives were fully achieved as the GOM
implemented a complete deregulation of the fertilizer sub-sector. Partly due to depressed prices on
the international market, implementation of stipulated price increases resulted in domestic prices
reaching international parity much sooner than expected. GOM took that opportunity to completely
deregulate prices of both inputs and outputs (Part III, para. 6.B. 1). Price deregulation also permitted
the complete withdrawal of FERTIMEX from all distribution activities and facilitated the divestiture
of the large plants.
6.2    Divestiture of FERTIMEX's production facilities. Critical factors in the success of
FERTIMEX privatization included: (i) the reorganization of FERTIMEX into decentralized regional
business units; (ii) the improvement in plant operations through rehabilitation investments and
improved plant management and supervision (Part III, para. 6.A.2); (iii) staff reductions and the
renegotiation and reduction in the number of union labor contracts; (iv) improvements in cost
accounting systems; and (v) preparation of separate financial statements for each plant. FERTIMEX's
restructuring improved operational and financial results while increasing the transparency and
usefulness of financial accounts. This restructuring made possible the valuation of FERTIMEX
facilities as distinct operating units, thus facilitating privatization.
6.3   Impact on GOM Budget. Savings in budgetary transfers over the period 1988-92 are
estimated at about US$1.0 billion. No transfers occurred after 1992. These savings are somewhat
lower than the US$1.3 billion expected at appraisal over the same period, but remain substantial.
While transfers for operations progressively declined, and transfers for investments remained about
even until 1991, transfers for interest payments remained high (until 1990) in spite of the assumption
by GOM of most of FERTIMEX's long term debt outstanding at appraisal. This was due to the
contracting of substantial additional short term debt to resolve critical liquidity problems resulting
from delays in price increases and late budget transfers during 1988 and early 1989. Details on actual
and estimated budget transfers are presented in Part III, para. 6.B.2.
6.4   Impact on Fertilizer Production and Use. Fertilizer production increased from about 1.6
million tons of nutrients in 1986 to about 2 million tons in 1990. This increase was in line with
appraisal estimates (Part III, para. 6.A. 1). In terms of tons of product, 1990 production was about
8% higher than appraisal estimates. Because several ammonium sulfate plants which were supposed
to close remained in production (para. 5.9), the average nutrient content of products sold in 1991 was
39%, about the same as in 1986 and well below the 46% expected at appraisal. Finally, production
in FERTIMEX's urea plants increased by about 15%-20% from the 1986 level as a result of
improved plant management and better cooperation between FERTIMEX and PEMEX.
6.5    Despite sharp increases in prices, domestic fertilizer demand did not decrease, remaining at
the 1986 level of about 1.75 million tons of nutrients (Part III, para. 6.A.3). This level of



- 27 -
consumption, however, was substantially lower than the 2.4 million tons projected at appraisal.
Fertilizer prices set at international parity provided an incentive for more efficient use of fertilizer
while eliminating the illicit export of subsidized Mexican product.
6.6    At appraisal, based on a projected 5% per annum growth of fertilizer demand, the fertilizer
deficit was expected to reach about 260,000 tons of nutrients in 1991 and 370,000 tons in 1992. In
fact, the actual nutrient supply/demand balance showed a surplus of about 320,000 tons in 1990 and
230,000 tons in 1991. Furthermore, this surplus does not take into account the production of the new
ammonium nitrate plant, which was not yet in production during mid-1993.
6.7   Impact on Fertilizer Availability. As discussed in para. 5.13, during and after the
withdrawal of FERTIMEX from fertilizer production and distribution, domestic and imported
fertilizer remained available to farmers, and no fertilizer shortages were reported. This was the result
of the excellent preparation work performed by FERTIMEX under the guidance of the consultant
contracted for the restructuring and distribution study prior to withdrawal.
6.8    Fertilizer Tariffs. The Bank insisted on full compliance with tranche conditions prior to
release, with the exception of the increase in fertilizer tariffs from 0% to 10% (para. 5.14). This
increase formed part of a broad tariff harmonization program and, as such, was accepted by the Bank.
(b) Results of the Investments Components
6.9    Plant Rehabilitation. Plant rehabilitation components permitted improved operations and
resulted in higher production and lower raw material consumptions. In 1990, the consumption of raw
materials reached levels consistent with those considered attainable during the sub-sector review and
at appraisal (Part III, para. 6.A.2). The rehabilitation of the Prayon filters of Pajaritos Fosfatados
resulted in much lower consumption of raw materials and reduced pollution; the operation of the
Lazaro Cardenas plant improved and reached about 80% of nominal capacity; however, the gypsum
sea disposal problem remained unsolved (para. 5.49).
6.10   Maritime Terminals. At estimated completion costs, the two terminals are barely
economically viable. The economic rate of return of Topolobampo is 4.7% versus 13% estimated at
appraisal and that of Altamira is 9.2% versus 17.7% estimated at appraisal (para. 5.43). However,
following the privatization of these facilities, the new owners will probably use these terminals to
handle other products in addition to fertilizer. This diversified use should improve their financial and
economic viability.
6.11   Pajaritos Ammonium Nitrate. Due to high costs of capital investment and reduced
international prices for ammonium nitrate, returns on the ammonium nitrate plant are small. The
economic rate of return of the project is now estimated at about 1.9%, much lower than the 21%
expected at appraisal (para. 5.36). In addition, the international export market for solid ammonium
nitrate is limited and its current domestic market is stagnant. Domestic demand for nitrogen fertilizer
in 1992 remained at the 1987 level of about 1.3 million tons of nutrient, far below the 1.76 million
expected at appraisal.
(c)    Financial Performance
6 12   FERTIMEX gross profit (sales less the cost of sales) decreased in 1988 and 1989 as a result
of two factors: the fertilizer price freeze under the country's economic stabilization program, and the
start-up of the highly unprofitable plant of Lazaro Cardenas. Profitability improved in 1990, and for



- 28 -
the first time since 1982 it reached a positive value in 1991, reflecting the impact of price increases,
plant rehabilitation, and improved management. Nevertheless, FERTIMEX operating losses increased
substantially, from about US$195 million in 1987 to about US$375 million in 1990, although they
decreased in 1991 to US$ 281 million. These high operating losses were mainly due to increases in
distribution costs resulting from: (i) the withdrawal of BANRURAL from fertilizer distribution; and
(ii) increases in rail transport costs. However, except in 1988, total cash flow after financial expenses
and before budgetary subsidies and principal payments on debt remained positive over the period
1987-91 despite the start-up problems of Lazaro Cardenas. Details are provided in Part III, para.
6.B.3.
6.13   Compliance with financial covenants has already been analyzed in para.5.17 and results are
presented in Part III, para. 6.B.4.
7.     Project Sustainability
Sustainability of the Policy Program and Privatization
7.1    The FSAL identified two major risks during implementation: (i) the possible negative impact
on agricultural production if changes in output prices did not compensate for increased fertilizer costs;
and (ii) the possibility of policy reversals once the loan was fully disbursed.
7.2    Close linkage with the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSAL, Loan 2918-ME),
reduced risks of a negative impact on the agricultural sector. During the implementation of the
AGSAL, and the successor project AGSAL II (Loan 3357-ME), prices for all agricultural products
were liberalized (except for four basic products prices for which prices have been historically above
international prices), subsidies on agricultural inputs were reduced, and trade restrictions on
agricultural products greatly reduced (again, except for four basic products). Rising agricultural
prices compensated for fertilizer price increases, as expected at appraisal. As indicated in the
AGSAL PCR dated February 15, 1994, it is too early to fully evaluate the effects of agricultural
reform. As stated above, domestic consumption of fertilizer nutrients did not decrease between 1986
and 1992 (para. 6.5).
7.3    The policy reforms actually implemented went well beyond commitments under the Loan.
This success was the result of strong commitment to reform, particularly by the current Mexican
administration. The risk of political reversal of the reform process is now very low, due to the
administration's success in stabilizing and restructuring the economy and the implementation of
international trade accords including the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). In
addition, although it is early for a complete evaluation, the privatized and deregulated fertilizer sector
appears to function well:
(a)    The private sector reacted quickly and positively to FERTIMEX's withdrawal from fertilizer
distribution (para. 5.13), and to the complete sectoral deregulation. Fertilizer remained
available to farmers at international prices, as distributors imported products following the
new plant owners' decision to increase fertilizer prices above international levels (para. 5.14).
In light of this positive reaction, GOM dissolved the small marketing company created to
regulate the market only a few months after its creation. Future Government involvement in
fertilizer distribution is unlikely.



- 29 -
(b)    All fertilizer plants are currently in operation with the exception of Coatzacoalcos, which has
been stopped. The new producers have already demonstrated the capacity to quickly react to
market forces: some producers have suspended production of fertilizer sulfuric and
phosphoric acid as a result of low international prices (para. 5.14); and they have been able to
organize a producers association to negotiate ammonia prices with PEMEX and to lobby
GOM for higher fertilizer tariffs. However, in light of the decision to divest ammonia plants
in the near future, PEMEX is not likely to accept less than the export parity price for
ammonia. SEMIP has indicated that the GOM will not accept higher tariffs except in cases of
demonstrated dumping.
7.4    Until recently, Mexican regulations have granted exclusive rights for ammonia production to
PEMEX. This provision has resulted in a major distortion to the fertilizer sector because ammonia
and urea plants are normally integrated to ensure a constant and economic supply of carbon dioxide to
the urea plant. These regulations have now been revised to exclude ammonia from the list of
products reserved for PEMEX, and to allow private sector participation in ammonia production.
PEMEX has announced the decision to sell all ammonia plants in the near future. The terms of the
privatization will be critical for the viability of the privatized urea plants. The dependence on
external carbon dioxide and ammonia supplies remains problematic principally for Pajaritos
Nitrogenados and Minatitlan, since their ammonia supply (from Cosoleacaque) can be exported.
Export of ammonia from the other ammonia plants (Bajio and Camargo) is more difficult.
7.5   The Project Completion Report and the Audit Report of the Fertilizer II Project (Loan 1686-
ME) concluded that the Lazaro Cardenas plant could only be financially sustainable when treating
part, or all, of capital investment as sunk cost (total financing required as of 1987 was about US$800
million). This was confirmed by the very low price obtained from the plant sale (about US$50
million together with the ROFOMEX mine of Baja California). Attempts are being made by the new
owner to improve the financial viability of this plant, including (i) the use of low-cost imported
sulfuric acid, (ii) negotiation of a long-term supply contract for by-product sulfuric acid with
Mexicana de Acido Sulfurico, and (iii) the study of possible operational improvements in processing
of ROFOMEX phosphoric rock.
Sustainability of the New Investments
7.6    As indicated in para. 5.41, the economic viability of the Topolobampo and Altamira maritime
terminals could improve following privatization if the ports are used to handle other products in
addition to fertilizer. However, during divestiture, attention should be paid to ensuring that the
Lazaro Cardenas and Pajaritos fertilizer plants continue to have access to them under the same
conditions offered to foreign fertilizer products.
7.7    Due to much higher completion costs, lower prices, limited export markets for solid
ammonium nitrate, and the stagnant domestic market, the Pajaritos ammonium nitrate plant has a low
estimated rate of return (para. 6. 11). However, on a marginal cost basis, net cash flows remain
positive. If completed at low cost the UAN solutions plant, which was not part of the Project, could
offer an opportunity for market diversification (para. 5.37) thus improving plant sustainability.



- 30 -
Potential Sustainability of a Restructured FERTIMEX.
7.8    FERTIMEX cash flow!' remained positive over the period 1987-91, with the exception of
1988 (para. 6.B.3 of Part III). This confirms that after restructuring, the operation of the existing
facilities by FERTIMEX could have been sustainable on marginal cost basis. Furthermore, if
FERTIMEX could have withdrawn from retail distribution prior to 1991 and if the maritime terminals
had then been in operation, distribution costs could have been reduced by about US$20 per ton of
fertilizer (in 1987 constant terms) as expected at appraisal. This would have resulted in much lower
operating losses and higher cash flow. Under this hypothetical scenario, FERTIMEX would still have
experienced operating losses in 1991. These losses would have been far lower than historic losses (in
constant 1987 pesos converted to 1987 U.S. dollars) and would have been in line with FERTIMEX
operating losses as projected at appraisal for the same year (US$ 44.4 million). However, as already
indicated, FERTIMEX was unable to improve its capacity to implement new investment projects.
8.         Bank Performance
8.1    Bank performance during project identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision was
generally thorough and effective. During project preparation, the Bank conducted extensive sector
work which addressed the important issues of the fertilizer sector and developed options for
restructuring. The principal options identified included both the partial and complete privatization of
FERTIMEX production and distribution facilities. Although the latter option was the preferred by the
Bank, complete privatization was not considered possible in the short term at the time of FSAL
appraisal. However, the Bank recommendations did form the basis of the GOM/FERTIMEX medium
and long term management strategy.
8.2   Implementation of the project was intensively supervised by the Bank. Thirteen supervision
missions were fielded over five years (two per year in 1988, 1989 and 1992 and three per year in
1990 and 1991), consisted of two persons per mission, and averaged 9-10 days. The combination of
policy-based and investment lending required frequent supervision due to: (i) the need to
continuously monitor compliance with policy conditionality; (ii) the need to maintain a dialogue with
the GOM and FERTIMEX on sectoral policy and strategy issues and to provide support for
restructuring and privatization; (iii) the need to closely monitor project implementation and propose
remedial actions in a timely manner; and (iv) the large quantity and diversity of investment sub-
projects and the need to adjust the program several times to reflect changing priorities during
restructuring and privatization. The Bank demonstrated substantial flexibility during project
implementation, quickly adjusting the investment and policy programs in response to the evolving
Government strategy for macroeconomic stabilization, sectoral restructuring, and privatization.
However, despite this intensive supervision the Bank was not able to bring about major improvements
in FERTIMEX's ability to implement new investment projects.
9.         Borrowers Performance
9.1   The strong commitment of the Salinas administration to structural reform resulted in rapid
deregulation and privatization of the fertilizer sector, going well beyond the commitments under the
8/After financial expenses and before budgetary subsidies and principal payments on debt.



- 31 -
loan agreement. To achieve this goal, the GOM appointed a highly competent General Manager to
FERTIMEX along with a management team which was fully committed to reform.
9.2    FERTIMEX management was able to efficiently implement the difficult measures required for
regionalization and reorganization of the company and its preparation for divestiture (para. 5.22).
Furthermore, jointly with the Unidad de Desincorporaci6n of SHCP, FERTIMEX
management actively participated in the privatization process of the productive assets (para. 6.2).
However, during the construction of the maritime terminals and of the Pajaritos Ammonium nitrate
plant, FERTIMEX investment implementation capabilities at headquarters remained limited.
Although weaknesses remained, project implementation delays and cost overruns experienced were
less severe than those experienced under the two previous Bank-financed projects (para. 4.3).
9.3    NAFIN took a much more active role in the implementation of the FSAL than in the previous
two loans. NAFIN managed the Special Account, was the official channel of communication between
FERTIMEX and the Bank, and reviewed the procurement documentation and provided extensive
comments prior to submission to the Bank.
10.        Project Relationship
10.1  The success of the FSAL was strongly supported by the high degree of professionalism of all
the parties involved and the close and strong working relationship which developed between the Bank
and Government. The reorganization and distribution study benefitted from the constructive
collaboration between FERTIMEX and the consulting firm BAH. The excellent relationship between
the Bank and FERTIMEX management, particularly during the Salinas administration, facilitated
close contact and frequent communication throughout the restructuring process, providing the
opportunity for frequent informal consultations on important policy and strategic issues.
11.        Consulting Services
11.1  FERTIMEX contracted with BAH for the reorganization and distribution study (para. 4.4).
BAH performance was very good. The study, which was prepared in close cooperation with
FERTIMEX, provided a strong basis for defining and implementing the restructuring and privatization
program.
11.2   During the implementation of the maritime terminals and the ammonium nitrate plant,
FERTIMEX contracted a specialized Mexican firm with its own resources to assist field teams in
project management. FERTIMEX has reported performance problems under this contract.
12.        Project Documentation and Data
12.1  The legal documents of the project were adequate for achieving the project objectives. The
Sector Restructuring Program, the Staff Appraisal Report, the supervision reports and the
documentation in the Project File provided adequate background for the review of project
implementation. A few weeks before the final supervision and PCR preparation mission in June 1993,
the Bank requested FERTIMEX to prepare the project related information needed for the preparation
of the PCR. All the requested information was provided and discussed during the mission.
Furthermore, FERTIMEX provided a draft of the internal corporate project completion report.



- 32 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related Bank Group Operations
Loan                   Loan in          Proiect Namc        Year of Approval               Status
Million
USS
1. I Bank Operations in the Fertilizer Sector
Loan 1112-ME              50.0    Fertilizer I Project      1975              Closed: Januaiy 20, 1982
PCR issued December 1984
Loan 1686-ME              80.0    Fertilizer II Project     1979              Closed: Dec.31, 1983
Completion: Dec. 1986
PPAR/PCR issued December
1991
Loan 2919-ME             265.0    Fertilizer Sector         1988              Closed: Dec.1993
Adjustment Loan
1.2 Proiects in Related Sectors
Loan 2918-ME             300.0    Agriculture Sector        1988              Closed: Nov. 15, 1990
Adjustment Loan                            Completion: Nov. 15, 1990
PCR issued February 1994
Loan 3085-ME             500.0    Public Enterprise Reformn   1989            Closed:June 30,1992
Completion: June 30, 1990
PPAR/PCR issued June 1992
Loan 3087-ME             500.0   Industrial Sector Policy   1989              Completed
PCR issued August 1993
Loan 3357-ME             400.0    Agriculture Sector        1991              Second tranche released in
Adjustment Loan 11                         December 1993
PCR under preparation
Comment:
Since the 1940s, the Bank has made the agricultural sector the leading sector in its lending to
Mexico. To support this strategy and help improve productivity, the Bank approved two operations
in the fertilizer sector. The first fertilizer project was signed on May 20, 1975 (Loan 1112-ME). It
financed the construction of two urea plants in Bajio and Pajaritos and an insecticide plant in
Salamanca. The second fertilizer project (Loan 1686-ME) was signed on May 18, 1979 to finance the
construction of a phosphate fertilizer complex at Lazaro Cardenas. The Fertilizer Sector Adjustment
Loan formed part of a series of sector adjustment loans approved between 1987 and 1990 aimed at
stimulating private sector investment and growth.



- 33 -
2.    Project Timetable
Item                           Date             Date             Date
Planned         Revised            Actual
- Identification Mission (i)                                                    06/85
- Preparation Mission(ii)                     09/85                        10/85-11/85
- Pre-appraisal Mission                       04/86                        11/86-12/86
- Appraisal Mission                           04/86            04/87            04/87
- Loan Negotiations                           07/87                             02/88
- Board Approval                              09/87                           03/15/88
- Loan Signature                                                              06/13/88
- Loan Effectiveness (iii)                  09/12/88        02/15/89          11/02/89
07/31/89
11/15/89
- Loan Closing                                 12/93                             12/93
- Loan Completion                             06/93            06/93             8/93
Comments:
(i) The need for comprehensive restructuring of the fertilizer sector was identified during a
public sector investment program review in the fertilizer, secondary petrochemical and pharmaceutical
branches of the chemical industry in May-June 1985. An in-depth diagnostic of the industry was
undertaken by the Bank during a preparation mission in November 1985. A diagnostic report on
possible restructuring options was forwarded to the GOM in April 1986. Several Bank follow-up
missions subsequently visited Mexico to discuss the findings of this review.
(ii) The preparation mission was postponed due to the Mexico City earthquake.
(iii) The FSAL initially encountered serious implementation delays and became effective over
a year after the originally planned date. Essentially, it suffered in 1988 and early 1989 from
measures under the macro-economic stabilization programs (Pacto and PECE), which rendered
impossible the scheduled fertilizer and fertilizer inputs price increases; from frequent management
changes in FERTIMEX; and from disagreements over the treatment of the plant closure program in
the Restructuring agreement between GOM and the FERTIMEX (Convenio), submitted to the Bank as
condition of effectiveness (para. 5.1 of Part I).



- 34 -
3.    Loan Disbursements (US$ million)
Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year
and Semester                     Appraisal    Formally                     Actual as %      Actual as %
Endini                            Estimate      Revised         Actual   Of Estimated        Of Revised
Estimates                  at Appraisal        Estimates
1988   - Mar 88                        2.5          0.0           0.0             0.0
- Jun 88                      10.0          0.0           0.0             0.0
1989   - Dec 88                       45.0          0.0           0.0             0.0
- Jun 89                     120.0          0.0           0.0             0.0
1990   - Dec 89                      190.0          6.0           6.0             3.2             100.0
- Jun 90                     227.0        156.8         156.8            69.1             100.0
1991   - Dec 90                      237.0        163.9         164.0            69.2             100.1
- Jun 91                     244.0        227.0          173.2           71.0              76.3
1992   - Dec 91                     251.0         245.0         229.8            91.5              93.8
- Jun 92                     257.0        257.0         239.6            93.2              93.2
1993   - Dec 92                      261.0        261.0         243.8            93.4              93.4
- Jun 93                     264.0        264.0         243.8            92.3              92.3
1994   - Dec 93                     265.0         265.0         240.2            90.6              90.6
Loan Disbursements
Estimated, Revised and Actual
280 1 
260-                                                                         -.
240 
220                                              f
200,                    ,
180                            /
160
0
140
1200                                 /
80 -                             /
60
40-
20 -
0--
1988       1989       1990        1991       1992       1993       1994
Bank FY
5 Appraisal Est.  + Revised Est.    Actual Disb.



- 35 -
4.      Project Implementation
Indicator                              ADiraisal                 Revised                  Actual
Estimates        Estimates as per
amendement
Effectiveness                                         Sep. 12, 1988         Nov. 15, 1989            Nov. 2, 1989
First Tranche Release                                    Sep. 1988               Oct. 1989          Dec. 14, 1989
Second Tranche Release                                   April 1989            March 1990            Sep. 13, 1991
Distribution Study:(i)
- Completion of first phase                          June 30, 1988          Dec. 15, 1989           Sep. 30, 1990
- Completion of study                                Dec. 31, 1988          Mar. 15, 1989           Oct. 10, 1990
Organization Studv:(i)
- Initiation                                         June 30, 1988          Sep. 15, 1989               Sep. 1989
- Completion of first phase                          Dec 31, 1988           Jan. 15, 1990               Jan. 1990
- Completion of study                                Sep. 30, 1989          July 30, 1990           Oct. 10, 1990
Phosphate Study: Completion                          Aug. 31, 1988           Nov 30, 1989           May 31, 1990
Gypsum Disposal Studies at Lazaro Cardenas:
(Xi
- Environ.Impact Assessment                                                 Dec. 31, 1990            Apr. 2, 1991
- Disposal System Design                                                    Sep. 30, 1991         not implemented
Completion of Ammonium Nitrate Plant at
Pajaritos                                                Dec. 1989                                      April 1992
Completion of Maritime Terminals:
- Altamira (iii)                                         Sep. 1992                                      Sep. 1992
Topolobampo (iii)                                      June 1992                                      Sep. 1992
- Guaymas                                                Sep. 1990                                      Cancelled
- Others                                                Dec. 1989                                       July 1989
Completion of 14 Warehouses                              Dec. 1991                                       Cancelled
Completion of 4 Ammonia Spheres                          Dec. 1990                                      Cancelled
Plants Rehabilitation:
- NPK Minatitlan                                        May 1990                                        Cancelled
- Gypsum Water Recycle in Pajaritos                                                               not implemented
Fosfatados                                            October 1989
- Others                                             October 1989                                     March 1992



- 36 -
Comments:
(i)    The Organization and Distribution Studies were consolidated into one study (Cambio
Estructural y Redimensionamento)
.(ii)    The Loan and Project Agreements were amended on February 16, 1990 to permit the
financing from the proceeds of the loan of the studies needed to assess the impact on the
environment of gypsum sea disposal in Lazaro Cardenas and to design and engineer the
recommended system necessary to minimize such impact. An impact study, financed by
counterpart funds, was carried out by a domestic firm. However, the Bank, in agreement
with SEMIP representatives and FERTIMEX's management, considered that a more
complete follow-up environmental impact study should be carried out by an experienced
consulting firm. Due to a subsequent earthquake in 1992 and to the acceleration of Lazaro
Cardenas plant divestiture, this study (and consequently the disposal system design study)
was not implemented (para. 5.49 of Part I and Para. 6 D of Part III).
(iii)   In line with GOM and FERTIMEX's decision to completely discontinue operations of
FERTIMEX by the end of 1992, FERTIMEX decided to discontinue the construction of
both the Topolobampo and Altamira terminals in September 1992. Construction in
Topolobampo is about 87% complete. In Altamira, it is less advanced -- physical progress
to date as indicated by Fertimex is 84%.



- 37 -
5 Proiect Costs and Financino
A. Pro4.et Total Coats
4LS$ milion)
APPRAJSAL ESTIMATES       REVISED COSTS I/           ACTUAL COSTS 2V        % Chmig  % Cherg.
---------- -~-~ - ~        -----~---------- --------  ------ --   1wm                    from
Total    Local Forelon   Total    Local   Forrn    Total   Local Forino ADDOISel   Rr
A. lmoonb and Debt Reduction
- Imports                            20000    0.00  200.00      50.00    0.00      50.00   50.00    0.00    50.00    (75 00)    0.00
- Debt Reduction                       000     0.00    0.00    150.00    0.00     150.00   150.00    0.00   150.00              0.00
Sub-total Impors and Debt Rerducton    200.00    0.00  200.00    200.00    0.00    200.00   200.00    0.00   200.00     0.00      0.00
S. Radlonaltzation Irwestments
Pajarito. Ammonlum Nltrate 2/             48.77   28.89   21.88     65.30    38.00     29.30    72.90    35.53   37.37   49.48     11.84
Maritmrne Trminabs                        28.4e    17.73   10.72    33.00   20.5      12.44    31.17    17-75   1341      9.52      (5S56
Warshours                                 38.28    23.53   14.73     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   (100.00)
Ammonia Spheres                            9.45    5.22    4.23      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   (100.00)
Plants Rehabtitallon                      20.07    7.S3   12.54     29.12    10.93     18.19   14.63    6.10    8.45    (27.11)    (49.7t6)
Sub-totatlnveatnents     145.00    80.90   84.10    127.42   67.50     59.92   11869    58.46    59.24    (18.14)   (e5s8)
C. Technical Assstance
Environment Studla.                        0.00    0 00   0o00       0.53    0.03      0.50    0.08    0.06    0.00               (64.91)
Phosphate Study                            0.20    0.00    0.20      0.05    0.00      0.05    0.05    0.00    0.05    (75600)      8.58
OrgarszationandDstributlonStudy3/          1.10    0.50    o.eo      o.0     0.00      0.t1    0.61     0.00    061    (44.55       0.10
Implementation of ReorganIzaton            0.00    0.00    0.00      0 50    0.00      0.50    0.61     0.07    054                22.00
ImprovemerntsInPlannlngSysterm             0.10    0.00    0.10      0.24    0.00      0.24    0.00     0.00    0.00   (100.00)   (100.00)
Sub-toa Techni Aassktanco          1.40    0.50    0.90      1.93    0.03      1.90    1.36    0.16    1.20      (357)    (29.a9)
Unallocated                                0.00    0.00    0.00     12.58    9.40      3.18    0.00     0.00    0.00
TOTAL COST AS OF JLUtY 31 1993       348.40    81.40  2ss.00    341.93   76.93   206.00  320.04    59.61  260.44     (7.61)     (640)
1/ Revised costs are as of Dec. 1991. when FERTIMEX decided to cancel the construction of all warehouses and of the
water recycle sub-project at Pajaritos.
Z/As at appraisal, foreign costs include dirct and indirect foreign exchange costs. Indirect foreign exchang9
coats are calculated as a % of total costs on the following basis: Engineering and Administration 5%, Equipmerit and
Materials 40%, civil works and erection 35%.
3/ The distribution study and the organization study were consolidated in a Restructuracion y Redlmenslamanto
study. An additional subsquent study to assist FERTIMEX in the implementation of the selected organtzation bructure was also Implemnted.
\MECOPCR.WK1



-38-
B. Investments and Project Financina
APPRASAL
ESTIMATES             REVISED COSTS                       ACTUAL COSTS
1/                                    z
-----F       ing -----             -----Fkncing-----
Total     Toa   C        r                    TOdl      C
Cost      Coat    lw             Bank         Cost       ds           Bank
k   Inoret and Debt Reducion
- lirports                               200.00        50            0        50           50            0         S0
- DebtRReduction                           0.00       150            0        150         150            0        150
Sub-ttil IorxNtz and Debt Reducin        200.00    200.00         0.00    200.00       200.00         0.00     200.00
B. Ratornaiztio hbneslw
Pqaritcr Ammonium Ndrate 2/                   48.80      65.30       49.30      16.00        72.90       58.06       14.82
Maritrme Termhuls 3/                          28.50      33.00       14.00      19.00        31.18       13.16       1800
Warehouses                                    38.30       0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
Ammonia Spheres                                9.40       0.00         0.00      000          0.00        0.00        0.00
Plants RahabWtalin                            20.03      29.12        13.60     15.52        14.03        &45         &18
Sub-toteJ rwestrnnts       145.03     127.42       7690       50.52       118.9        79.89       39.00
C. Technical Assistmc.
Envronment Studies                             0.00       0.53        0.03       0.50         0.08        0.08        0.00
Phosphate Study                                0.20       0.05        0.00       0.05         0.05        0.00        0.05
Organizab and Distrbuticn Study 4              1.10       0.e1        0.00       0.61         0.61        0.00        0.81
Irrpnentation ofRorganizacon                   0.00       0.50        0.00       0.50        0.82         0.07        0.54
Irrprovwnenta i Piannnig System                0.10       0.24        0.00       0.24         0.00        0.00        0.00
Sub -toalTTchnikaiAsistaance         1.40      1.93         0.03      1.90         1.38         0.1e       1.20
Unalocte                                       0.00      12.58        0.00      12.58         0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL COST AS OF JULY 31. 1993         346.43    341.93        76.93    265.00       320.05        79.85     240.20
Cancelled as of July 9, 1992                     -    -19.00             0    -19.00
TOTAL AFrER CANCELLATION           346.43    322.93        76.93    246.00       320.05       79.85      240.20
Unlocatted as d Juty 31, 193 - to be Canceld                                                                          5.80
1 / Revised costs are as of Dec. 1991 when FERTIMEX decided to cancel the constuction of all warehouses
and the implementation of the water recycle project at Pajaitos.
2/ Estimated completion cost at appraisal (Apr. 1987) amounted to US$ 48.8 million.
FERTIMEX esUmates, revised complebon cost since appraisal at US$72.9 million.
3/ Including US$2 million Bank financing of unforseen offsites (accepted in JanLary 1992).
4/ The distribution study and the organizabon study were consolidated in a *Cambio Estructural y Redimensionamento-.
A complementary study to assist in the implementabon of the proposed orgarizabon was also implemented
and financed under the Loan.
VvEREPCR.WK1



- 39-
C. Total Plants Rehabilitation Costs and Financino
(USS thousandl
APPRAISAL
ESTIMATES             REVISED COSTS                      ACTUAL COSTS
1/                                   2a
Finanding -----                   -----Fnancing-----
Total     Total Counitarp                     Total  Countrpagt
Cost      Cost   funds          Bank         Cost   lunds            Bank
Lazaro Cardenas (Exctudng Studs) 2/              0     11,329        3.477     7,852        4,345       3,376        969
Paatin FobstatdoD                            12,373    11,362        5,427     5,935        8.482       3.87       4,795
Palazito Nltroosnados
- C02 Pipe Rehabiitation 3t                   0      3,000        3,000         0         495          495          0
-NPK Pant Rehalitstlon 4/                   3,000         0           0          0           0            0          0
- C02 cooling syskam 3/                        0       1,000        100        900           0            0          0
Ballo Ursa
- Carbamte Condensr Tub e                   1,881      1.595       1.595         0         890          890          0
- Carbamate Pump                             891        847           0        647         417            0        417
Inrtrumentstion all Plahnt                    1,485       190           0        190           0           0           0
TOTAL         20,030    29,123       13,599    15,524       14,829       8,448      8,181
i/ Revised Costs are as of December 1991, when FERTIMEX decid-d to cancel implementation of the water recycle system.
21 Sub-projects accepted in October 1989 and June 1990.
31 These projects were proposed In Dec. 1990: Partial rehabilitation of the C02 pip- was Implemented by FERTIMEX out of its
funds. Complete implementation of these projects (which was ponding a decision regarding the construction of a new urea tra
canceled due to plant divestiture
4/ Early in 1990, FERTIMEX decided not to implement the rehabilitaion of the Minatitan NPK plant.
MEREPCR.WKI



-40-
D. Costs and Status of Rehabilitaion Sub-projects in Pajaritos Fosfatados
(USS thousand)
APPRAISAL          REVISED COSTS \1                     ACTUAL COSTS                                   STATUS
ESTIMATES=
.------Financing                    ----Financing----
Total Cost  Total   Conterpart                   Total  Conterpart
\2      Costs         funds       Bank      Costs      funds     Bank
Sub- projects Inctuded at AppraisaL
- Electrical Substation                       605    605              0       605        1,228       646      581           completed
- Cooling tower 1/                             920  2,484         1,624        860       1,134       911      223           project discontinued
- Sulfuric Acid Plant
* Catalyst (Vanadium Pentoxide)          1782  1,782          1,782         0          531       531        0           partly implemented with own funds
* New Gas Cooler                          210       0             0         0            0         0        0           cancelled
* Air Fitter                              245    335              0       335          268         0      268           completed
* Sulfur Filtr.(carb removal)             335    334            334         0            0         0        0           compl. w/ own funds
- Phosphoric Acid Plant
* Heat exchanger (Sanicro Tubes)         1740    350              0       350          289        10      279           completed
* Water Recycle                          4714       0             0         0            0         0        0           cancelled due to upcoming plant sale
* Centrifuge                              475       0             0         0            0         0        0           cancelled
* Phosphate Handling                      125    125            125         0           65        65        0           conpleted
* Acid Demister                           172    172            172         0            0         0        0           coapl. w/ own funds
* Slurry Recycle                          500    191            191         0           19        19        0           completed
* Acid Transfer Pumps                     550    300            199       101          137       36       101           completed
Sub Total       12,373  6,678         4,427      2,251       3,670    2,218    1,452
Sub-projects accepted in June 1990
* Reactors Agitators (8 agitators)                  0             0         0            0         0        0           partly implemented
* Rehab. of two Prayon Filters                  3,784           400     3,384        4,532    1,189    3,343            completed
* Rubber Lining of Two Phos Acid Tanks            600           300       300          280       280        0           one tank repaired, other cancelled
* Phosphate Dust Filter                             0             0         0            0         0        0           cancelled
* Rehab. of Water Pumping Station                   0             0         0            0         0        0           cancelled
* Hot Gas Filters(sulf.acid plants)                 0             0         0            0         0        0           cancelled
Sub Total               4,384           700     3,684        4;812    1,469    3,343
Sub-projects accepted in April 1991
* Recovery and Deaeration of                      300           300         0                      0        0            being implemented by new owner
Boiler Feed Water
TOTAL              11,362         5,427     5,935                 3,687    4,795
1/ Revised costs are as of December 1991, after it was decided to cancel the water recycle system.
2/ Including contingencies, duties on imported equipment and indirect taxes on off-the shelf items.
3/ Originally HasteLtoy tubes
MEREPAPCR.WK1



- 41 -
E. Costs and Status of Rehabilitaion Sub-projects in Lazaro Cardenas
(USS thousand)
REVISED COSTS \1                       ACTUAL COSTS                       STATUS
------Financing -------               -----Financing----
Total  Conterpart                    Total   Conterpart
Costs       funds         Bank       Costs      funds      Bank
...-         - -           -        - --      - - -       ...
Sub- projects accepted in October 1989
Electrical Protection System                505          105          400            92       92         0   first tender void, proj. discontinued
sulfur Nelting and Neutralization           125            0          125           106        0       106   constr. stopped, proj. discontinued
Phosphoric Acid Homogeneization           1,000            0        1,000            82       82         0   project discontinued
Instruments                               1,672        1,322         350         1,508    1,508          0   Implemented with own funds
Phophoric Acid Pipes                      2,400            0        2,400           193      193         0   bid cancelled, project discontinued
Conveyor Belts                              372          372                        359      359         0   completed
Nitrate Tower Floor Protection              700          300          400           623      357       266   under implementation
Sulfuric Acid Plant Catalyst                                                          0        0         0   deleted
Contaminated Water Pumps (two)              188            0          188          247        59       188   completed
Phosphoric Acid Reactors Lining             367          100          267           290       44       247   completed
Phos. Filter Cloth Water Spray              200           28          172           162        0       162   completed
subtotal                  7,529        2,227        5,302        3,664    2,694        969
Sub-projects accepted in June 1990
Termination of TSP Plant                    500          500            0          644       644         0   implemented with own funds
Presgurization of motors centers            900          100          800             0        0         0   first tender void, project discontinued
Coastal Surf Breakers                     1,500          650          850            38       38         0   bid cancelled, project discontinued
Rehab of Fire Protection System             900                       900             0        0         0   Bid cancelled, project revised and
-----       -----        -----         -----    .....    -----   implemented with own funds
3,800        1,250       2,550           682      682         0
subtotal
Studies
Envirornmental Impact and System                                                                             EPAC study completed, tender for follow-up study
Definition                          330           30         300            28        28        0   cancelled.  The new owner must install a new
Gypsum Disposal System Design and                                                                            300-meter pipe within two years and subsequently
Engineering                         200            0         200             0         0        0   implement an EIA.
subtotal                    530           30          500            28       28         0
TOTAL                  11,859        3,507       8,352         4,373    3,404        969
\1 The rehabilitation of Lazaro Cardenas was not envisaged at appraisal, when the plant was being
comnissioned. Revised costs are as of December 1991, when it was decided to cancel the construction
of all warehouses.
MERELAPC.WK1



- 42 -
F.     Bank Financing
Amount of the loan Allocated
(expressed in US$ thousand equivalent)
Cate2orv                                     SAR                    -Revised                   Actual
Fstimates                                           UD to
07/31/1993
02/04/1990       07109/1992
(i)              (jii
(I)  (a) Fertilizer Imports under Part A   150,000          50,000            50,CGG          50,000
of
the Project
(b) Other Imports under Part A of    50,000               -                 -              -
the
Project
(2)   Goods under Part B and C of the       30,800          30,800            24,800
Project
38,999
(3)   Civil Works under Part B of the       32,800          32,800             32,800
Project
(4)   Consultants' Services Training and     1,400           1,400              1,400          1,200
Studies under Part C of the Project
(5)   Debt Reduction Plan                                  150,000            150,000        150,000
Sub-Total                265.000         265,0              246000          240,199
Cancelled as of July 9, 1992                                                   19,000         19,000
Cancelled as of August 19, 1993                                                                5,801
Original Loan Amount                                                         265.000         265,000
Comments:
(i)     The Loan and Guarantee Agreements were amended on February 4, 1990, to allow
GOM to use US$150 million from the proceeds of the Loan as set-asides in support of
Mexico's debt reduction program (para. 3.3 of Part 1).
(ii)    As a result of its decision to withdraw from  primary as well as secondary distribution
and of the acceleration of the privatization of its plants, FERTIMEX decided to cancel
the construction of the warehouses, ammonia spheres, and part of the rehabilitation sub-
projects. Consequently, July 9, 1992, NAFIN requested the cancellation of US$19
million of the loan amount.



- 43 -
6. Project Benefits
A. Direct Benefits
1. Domestic Production of Fertilizer
1986     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991      1992
As Estimated at Appraisal
- In thousand tons of Product             4119.0  4508.0   4517.0   4701.0   4215.0   4370.0    4415.0
- In thousand tons of Nutrients
-N                                        1264.0   1370.0   1410.0   1451.0   1355.0   1414.0    1436.0
- P205                                     257.0    421.0    440.0    549.0    558.0    558.0      558.0
- K20                                       48.0     46.0     61.0     66.0    e6.o0      6.0       66.0
Sub-total Nutrients   1569.0   1837.0   1911.0   2008.0   1979.0   2038.0    206o.0
Actual
- In Thousand Tons of Product
FERTIMEX's Production of Fertlizer
- Amonium Sulfate                           1478.7  1300.1   1332.1   1330.5   1240.8    755.0       227.6
- Amonium Nitrate                            103.3    161.3    280.7    315.2    276.5    344.9       80.4
- Urea                                      1288.4  1384.4   1301.4   1492.9   1415.0   1511.0       704.9
- Single Super Phosphate                     219.0   223.2    252.7    276.8    176.3    183.9        59.9
- Triple Super Phosphate                     217.2   231.1    229.5    218.0    234.7    266.4       100.2
- Diamonium Phosphate                         153.1    442.8    400.2    570.1    684.2    597.0     212.5
- NPK                                        217.0    229.6    222.1    199.6    157.1    175.4      175.6
- Anhydrous Ammonia                          321.0   309.0    300.0    295.0    297.8    244.3       165.1
Sub-Total Fertimex    3998.3  4281.5   4318.8   4698.2   4482.5   4058.5    1726.2
Fertilizer Production by Others                                             4.4     57.8    293.5    n.a
Total Mexico (estimated by SEMIP)                                        4702.6   4540.3   4352.0    n.a
Technical Grade Phos. Acid Production           77.4    86.9      72.8     89.6     90.0     86.7      50.2 (i
Total Production of Fertmex                   4075.7  4368.4   4391.6   4787.7   4572.5   4145.2    177e.5
- In Thousand Tons of Nutrients
FERTIMEXs Production of Fertilizer
___________________
- N                                       1038.8   1120.8   1126.1   1257.0   1183.0   1135.7     466.0
- N in Anhydrous Ammonia                   264.4    254.5   247.1    242.0    245.2    201.2       136.0
- P205                                     284.7    435.9    400.2    486.0    539.4    513.7     185.7
- K20                                       36.9     39.0     37.8     33.9     26.7     29.8      29.9
Sub-total Fertilizer  1624.7   1850.2   1811.1   2019.9   1994.4   1880.5     817.5
Technical Grade Phos. Acid Production           77.4     86.9     72.8     89.0     90.0    86.7        50.2
Total Production of Fertjmex                  1702.1   1937.2   1884.0  2109.5   2084.5   1967.2      867.7
(i) does not include phosphoric acid produced by the new owner in 1992, *simated at about 45,000 tons.
Comments
1/ As estimated at appraisal, fertilizer production increased from about 1.6 million tons
of nutrients in 1986 to about 2 million in 1990.
2/ In 1992, FERTIMEX's production only amounted to 0.8 million tons of nutrients - - the Lazaro
Cardenas phosphoric acid plants were stopped during most of the year because the two
gypsum pipes were broken; also, by June 1992, except for Minatitlan and Lazaro
Cardenas, all the production facilities had already been transferred to their new owners.



- 44 -
2. Main Plants Production and Unit Consumption of Raw Materials
------------------------------------
Considered
Attainable
1980    1987    1986    1989    1990    1991           1992 at Appraisal
Urea Plant of Pajaritos Nitrogenados
- Production (tons of product/year)       772,823  873,105  805,659  928,061  805,882  956,589   943,784
- Ammonia (ton/ton)                        0.8184   0.6192   0.8194   0.5990   0.5893   0.0082    0.6172       0.80
- C02 (ton/ton)                            0.7351   0.7583   0.7708   0.7850   0.7392   0.7333    0.7331       0.77
Urea Plant of Bailo
- Production (tons of product/year)       238.318  233,912  228,228  279,645  303,799  238,997
- Ammonia (ton/ton)                        0.6352   0.6402   0.6399   0.6341   0.6021   0.8036                 0.60
- C02 (ton/ton)                            0.7795   0.7582   0.7801   0.7283   0.7001   0.7808                 0.78
Urea Plant of Minatitian
- Production (tons of product/year)       203,950  192,106  186,990  203,229  222,863  241,276   157,036
- Ammonia (ton/ton)                        0.6725   0.7408   0.7873   0.6390   0.6139   0.8230    0.8276       0.60
- C02 (ton/ton)                            0.7737   0.7765   0.7397   0.7574   0.7576   0.7601    0.7607       0.77
Phosphoric Acid of Pa*aritos Fosfatados
- Production (ton of product/year)        247,126  253,639  244,245  262,100  261,747  244,040
- Sulfur (ton/ton)                         1.1472   1.1428   1.1693   1.1594   1.0856   1.0621    1.0009       1.07
- Phosphate (ton/ton)                      3.e661   3.8230   4.03e6   3.9809   3.7470   3.6174    3.5094       3.50
Phosphoric Acid of Lazaro Cardenas
- Production (ton of product/year)         61.308  201,007  184,597  254.356  312.283  300,860    57,614
- Sultfur (ton/ton)                        0.9662   1.0895   1.1017   0.9750   0.9394   0.9154    0.9680
- Phosphate (ton/ton)                      3.8776   3.9139   4.1774   3.5940   3.4200   3.3828    3.4634
(i) in 1992. production by new owners is included, as estimated by FERTIMEX. The Lazaio Cardenas
phosphoric acid plants were stopped during most of 1992, because the two gypsum pipes were broken.
Comments
- Consumptions of raw materials improved, and, by 1990, reached levels consistent with those considered
as attainable during the Bank sub-sector review and at appraisal.
- Production of FERTIMEX's urea plants increased by about 15-20% above their 1986 levels --
in addition to better management and operation, this increase was also the result of improved
cooperation between FERTIMEX and PEMEX.
- Improvement in the operation of the phosphoric acid plants of Pajaritos Fosfatados
and the rehabilitation of the Prayon filters resulted in much lower consumption of raw
materials.
- Operation of the Lazaro Cardenas plants improved and reached about 80% of their
nominal capacity in 1990. However, these plants were stopped during most of 1992
because both gypsum pipes were broken during a new earthquake.
*WD7MWx1



- 45 -
3. National Fertilizer Demand
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991           1992
As Prolected at Appraisal
- In Thousand Tons of Product            4541.0  4685.0   4620.0   4764.0  4696.0  4959.0    5204.0
- In Thousand Tons of Nutrients
- N                      1299.0  1366.0   1427.0   1499.0   1581.0  1668.0    1760.0
- P205                     406.0   419.0   438.0    480.0    485.0   512.0        540.0
- K20                       94.0    99.0    104.0    109.0   115.0    121.0       128.0
Sub-total Nutrients   1799.0  1884.0   1969.0   2088.0  2181.0  2301.0    2428.0
- Average Nutrient Content (%)               40      40       43       43       46       46         47
Actual Sales
- In Thousand Tons of Product            4548.3  4645.8   4339.7   4193.5   4239.6  4208.3    4108.0
- In Thousand Tons of Nutrients
- N                      1268.2  1340.7   1279.8   1245.9   1229.7  1181.0    1292.3
- P205                     407.1    421.3    383.3   355.1    342.1    376.6      313.2
- K20                       94.7    95.2      92.0     85.9    94.6      95.3     143.2
Sub-total Nutrients    1770.0  1857.2   1755.1   1686.9   1666.4   1652.9    1748.7
- Average Nutrient Content (%)             38.9    40.0      40.4     40.2     39.3     39.3      42.6
Comments
1/ The average nutrient content of fertilizer only reached 42.6%  in 1992, compared to 47%  expected at
appraisal. This lower average content is due to the continued operation of three ammonium sulfate plants, as
allowed with the September 1989 amendment to the Loan Agreement. These low-grade fertilizer plants were
initially part of the plant closure program, however due to changes in key price relationships between inputs and
outputs on the world market, their operation remained marginally justified until they were sold.
2/ At appraisal, national demand of fertilizer was expected to reach a level of about 2.4 million of nutrients in
1992. However, actual domestic sales remained at their 1986 level of about 1.75 million tons o nutrients.
Higher fertilizer prices (set at their intemational parity), probably provided an incentive to more efficient use of
fertilizer and made border-crossing less attractive.
\MEBTRA.WK I I



- 48 -
4. National Supply/Demand Balances
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991      1992
An Projected at Appraisal                 -35.0     4.0  -17.0   -48.0  -226.0  -254.0   -324.0
- N                    -149.0     2.0     2.0    89.0    73.0    46.0      18.0
- P205                  -46.0   -53.0   -43.0   -43.0   -49.0   -55.0    -62.0
- K20                   - - - -  - -                                      ____
-230.0   -47.0   -58.0    -2.0  -202.0  -263.0   -368.0
Sub-total Nutrients
Actual                                     34.9    34.5    93.4   254.0   198.6   155.9
- N                    -122.4    14.6    16.9   130.9   197.3   137.1
- P205                  -57.8   -56.2   -54.2   -52.0   -67.9   -85.5
- K20                   - - - -  -                               ____
-145.3    -7.0    58.0   333.0   328.0   227.6
Sub-total Nutrients
Comments
At appraisal, based on a projected 5% per year growth in fertilizer demand, the fertilizer deficit was expected
to reach about 260,000 tons of nutrients in 1991 and 370,000 tons in 1992. However, the actual
nutrient supply/demand balance showed a surplus of about 320,000 tons of nutrients in 1990, and
230,000 tons in 1991. This surplus does not include production from the new ammonium nitrate plant of
Pajaritos, not yet in operation.
EMUDTRAWKI ,   -d



- 47 -
5. FERTIMEX'S Consignment Sales
___________________
1 98g    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991        1992
Total Salos (thousand tons)                  4.548    4.645    4.340    4.194    4.240    4.208   4.108
Consignment Sales (thousand tons)              1.8   1.891    1.757    2.088    2.461    0.040    0.000
Consignment Sales as % of Total Sales (%)      40       41      40       50       58        1        0
Consignment and Total Sales
5
4
0)            3
0)
0n
C:
0
c        ~~~2
1986              1988               1990               1992
1987              1989               1991
0         Total Sales
2   Consignment Sales
Comments
Due to the withdrawal of BANRURAL from fertilizer distribution, FERTIMEX consignment sales increased
from 40% of total sales in 1986 to 58% in 1990. However, in 1991, FERTIMEX practically stopped all
consignment sales and transferred most consignment inventories. In 1991, FERTIMEX's consignment sales
only accounted for about 1 % of its total sales.



- 48 -
B. Financial Impact
1. International and Domestic Prices of Fertilizer and Fertilizer Raw Materials
---------------------------------------
PRICES OF FINISHED PRODUCTS
(US$/ton)
Year End                                     1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
As Proiected at ADDraisal
Weighted Average Domestic Price a/ d/
- ListPriceinConstant1987Termsb/              61    105    105    118    132         149    167
- List Price in Current Terms                55.5  105.0  112.6  125.7  148.6  171.3  200.4
Weighted Average Import/Export Parity
- List Price in Constant 1987Terms b/         115    152    157    170    187        193    196
- List Price in Current Terms               104.7  152.0  168.4  181.1   210.5  221.8  235.2
Domestic Prices as % of Import/Export Parity   53      69      67      69      71      77      85
Actual Prices in Current USS
Weighted Average Domestic Price a/
- List Price in Current Terms c/             55.5  105.1   101.9  104.1   155.3  192.5  190.5
Weighted Average Import/Export Parity          105    152    172    141       170     167    170
Domestic Prices as % of Import/Export Parity    53      69     59      74      91     115    112
(Comments are presented on the next page)
a/ Average price weighted by the 1992 sales composition, as agreed-upon in the supplemental
letter to the Guarantee Agreement.
b/In 1986 list price is equivalent to the retail price (ex-2600 outlets). Progressively changing to the
equivalent of the wholesale price (ex-primary wharehouse) as FERTIMEX withdraws from
retail operations.
c/ Until October 1991 list price is equivalent to the retail price. After October
1991 FERTIMEX's list price is at FERTIMEX's plants gate, based on international prices and differentiated by plant.
However, the prices indicated for end- 1991 and end- 1992 are average prices at
wholesale level as estimated by FERTIMEX. They are based on regional sales and
include transport and handling costs.
d/ Including: (1) international freight and port charges estimated at US$15 per ton, and (2) internal
distribution costs to retail outlets of US$35 per ton. Distribution costs to wholesale level
were estimated at US$15 per ton.
(MEPCRPRI)



- 49 -
PRICES OF FINISHED PRODUCTS
DOMESTIC PRICES                                                 INTERNATIONAL PRICES
ActutVProjected at Appraisal                                      ActuaVProeclted at Appraisal
210                                                               250
200                                                               240-
190                                                               230-
80                                                                2200
170                                                               210 -
180                                                               200 1
150                                                              1 10 9
130
120
- 120                                                                IS
100                          10150
900                                                              140 -
-)    80                                                         1 1 3
70                                                               120
60                                                               110
50                                                               100
401988                  19 iS    90  1 492'                         19 86    I 19Ia88lg 
1987       19ga9      1991                                        1987        1989       1991
a projected                                                       0 projected
Actual                                                            Actual
Domestic Prices as % of import Parity
abou US$170 ptActual/Projected at Appraisal
110 
100 
90 
CD
U
80 
70-
60 
50 d  9`86 19187  19 8        1d9`90 p 1  19i92
projected
Actual
,omments
At the end of 1991 and in 1992, domestic prices were 12%-15% higher than their international
parity. This margin was necessary to FERTIMEX to partly compensate for additional financial costs
entailed by payment cond(tions (10% down-payment with the balance paid at 150 days) made
to attract the private sector in fertilizer distribution.
Actual average international fertilizer prices increased above their depressed 1986-87
level much less than expected at appraisal. In 1992, the weighted average was
about US$1170 per ton, compared with US$235 expected at appraisal.
After delays in price adjustments in 1988 and early 1989, domestic prices in current US$
increased rapidly and, starting 1991, reached levels equivalent or higher than those expected at
appaisal. In 1992, the average weighted price (US$190 per ton) was slightly lower than
expected at appraisal (US$200), However, due to depressed international prices, it was
already above its international parity.



- 50 -
PRICES OF RAW MATERIALS
Ammonia
(US$/ton)
End Year                                            1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Prices As Projected at Appraisal
Domestic Price
- In Constant 1987 Terms                                    30.0    45.0    56.0    86.0   112.0   130.0           140
- In Current Terms                                          30.0    48.3    59.7    96.8   128.7   156.0   170.3
Percent of Export Price to be Reached (as Condition) (%)                         54       63       71       80       80
Export Price Projected at Appraisal                                             110      154      181      195      195
Projected Domestic Prices as revised in Ammendment
Percent of Export Price to be Reached (as Condition) (%)                         40       50       60       70       80
Domestic Price in Current Terms                                                  44       77      109      137      156
Actual Prices in Current Terms
- Price Paid by FERTIMEX                                    45.8    44.4    38.2    71.9          69     73.3
- Export Parity                                               95   116.8    74.6   110.6   102.5    74.5
% of Export Parity                                            48.2    38.0    51.2    65.0    67.3    98.4
(Comments are presented on the next page)
09/03/93
EXPORT PRICES OF AMMONIA                      ,              DOMESTIC PRICES OF AMMONIA
2                  Actual/Proj;cted at Appraisl                      1                 Actual/Projected
-a    200 __                                                          U    
0     190                                                            170 
170                                                           180
ISO 1201_4/ 90 1
1780 _                                                         140 
C      en150      ,                                                  120 -
o     140                                                      0     110 1
130                                                    IL    100
o 120                                                   o      go 
110                                                          s80-
1001                                                          70 -
900                                                          /9 5
CL~~                              60                         60          ,t
80                                                           405  4
70                                                            30
60 ~     ~        ~        3                         20 II
-  1987   198919119 1983                                      1987        19I911993
5           ~~~~~~1988   10900       19'92                                 1988       "    19090    1D902I
o                  o ~~~~~~~~~projected                oprojected
Actual                                                Actual    Revised Projections
DOMESTIC PRICES as % of Export Parity
Actual/Projected
110
100 
90 
80 
c
*  70-
eL     60-
40 -
30 ~9-7 -T    19,89   19I 91         193
1971988        1990         1992
Appraisal Conditons
Actual IRevised Conditions



- 51 -
Sulfur
(US$/ton)
Year-end                                       1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Price As Proiected at Appraisal
Domestic Price
- In Constant 1987 Terms                               99.0   106.0   116.0   120.0   125.0   130.0
- In Current Terms                                     99.0   113.7   123.6   135.1   143.7   156.0
Percent of Export Price to be Reached (as Condition)(%)                  100     100     100     100
Export Prices Projected at Appraisal                                     124     135     144      156
Actual Price in Current Terms
- Price Paid by FERTIMEX                                      118.3    94.2   113.9    72.8    71.7
- Export Parity                                         95      92       90     107    72.5      65
% of Export Parity                                             128.6   104.7   106.4   100.4   110.3
EXPORT PRICES OF SULFUR                                 DOMESTIC PRICES OF SULFUR
Actual/Projocted at Appraisal                                Actuaj/Projcted
140 -                                                    140-
,o 130 -.    130 
120-                                                     120 -
CL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
V) 110 -                                              0     110 
Z  100 -                                                    100
90                                                      go
80                                                       80
70                                                       70
1987 1988   1989       1990   10                                       1989218             1992
8  project'.4                                              projocto
Actual                                                   Actua
Comment
At appraisal, it was expected that ammonia prices would increase progressively to reach
about US$195 per ton in current terms fob Coatzacalcos in 1992. However, actual
international prices remained very depressed and fluctuated between US$75 and US$115 per ton during the period
1987-92. Domesticpricesofammonia, which, untilJune 1990, remainedfrozenin pesosattheirend-1987level,
decreased in current US$ to a very low level of US$38 per ton at the end of 1989 (equivalent
to about 51 % of export parity). In 1990, it increased to the equivalent of US$72 per ton
which represented at that time about 65% of export parity. The domestic price of ammonia was
maintained at the same level of US$70 -73 during 1991 and 1992. However, in 1992, due to the
very low export price (US$74.5 fob Coatzacoalcos), domestic prices reached export
parity, and GOM and PEMEX took advantage of this oportunity in April 1992 to set domestic
ammonia prices at export parity, with monthly revisions. This price liberalization was also
accelerated by GOM decision to divest Pajaritos Nitrogenados, FERTIMEX's largest nitrogen fertilizer
plant.
Export prices of sulfur were also expected at appraisal to increase progressively to
reach about US$156 per ton in current terms. However, except in 1990, international prices of
sulfur decreased progressively to a very low level of US$65 per ton at the end of 1992. Although actual
sulfur prices paid by FERTIMEX to domestc producers thus remained much lower than expected
at appraisal, during the period 1988-92, they remained higher than their
export parity.



- 52 -
2. Budget Transfers to FERTIMEX for Operation, Interest Payments and Investments
(USS million)
1986     1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992        1993
As Estimated at Appraisal
- in Real Terms                                385.8    385.0    311.3    188.e      80.0      46.0       0.0         0.0
- in Current Terms                             385.8    365.0    334.0    177.5      90.0     52.9        0.0         0.0
Actual
- In MaxS
- Transfers for Operaton                    140064  277345   326892   334206   166618  224299         38337
- Transfers for investments                  38502    e8soo    95336   111876   151297   176550       65287
- Transfers for interest payments            57439   124256   202800   180142   258636   181102    112765
Total Budget Transfers    236005  470402   625028   808224   576550   581951    216389            0
-Average Exchange Rate                         e11.8   1378.2   2273.0   2461.5   2812.6   3018.4    3094.9
- In USS
- Transfers for Operation                     228.9    201.2    143.8    135.8      59.2     74.3      12.4
- Transfers for investments                    62.9     49.9     41.9     45.5      53.8     58.5      21.1
- Transfers for interest payments              93.9     90.2     89.2     65.1      92.0     60.0      36.4
Total Budget Transfer    385.8    341.3    275.0    246.3    205.0    192.8        69.9        0.0
Budget Transfer to FERTIMEX
Actual / Estimated
450
400
-El       350
0E           3 300
250
D             200 -
E 150 -
(1)
100 
50-
0
19186                1988        1        1990         1        1992
1987                 1989                  1991                 1993
D    Est. at Appraisal
Actual
Comments
From 1989 to 1992, budget transfers remained higher than expected at appraisal, mainly in compensation for
higher than expected interest payments: insufficient and late operational budget tranfers and
delays in price increases during 1988 and early 1989 forced FERTIME to contract substantial
additional short term debt to resolve resulting critical liquidity problems. Most of this short
term debt (about US$ 135 million) was restructured into a long term debt with BANAME)t in 1 991, and was
assumed by GOM in June 1992.
Actual savings in budgetary transfers over the period 1988-92 are estimated at about US$ 1.0 billion.
These savings are lower than the level of US$ 1.3 billion expected at appraisal for the same period,
but remain substantial.                  \MEBUDTRA.WK1 range:budget



- 53 -
3. FERTIMEX Profitability
Notes
a/ in 1990 and 1991, financial expenses include the net result of monetary corrections of monthly
current monetary assets and liabilities.
b/ this sensitivity case considers a reduction in distribution costs for 1991 of US$20 per ton of
fertilizer (in constant 1987 terms), which could have taken place (as expected at appraisal) if
FERTIMEX had already withdraw from retail distribution and if the maritime terminals had been
already in operation.
c/ depreciation costs increased in 1989 with the start-up of Lazaro Cardenas. However, in 1990 and
1991, FERTIMEX decided to revalue its fixed assets, and total depreciation decreased. In addition,
depreciation in 1991 reflects the transfer to new owners of some plants.
d/ FERTIMEX's financial performance during 1992 is not typical. During that year, most
FERTIMEX large production facilities were divested; FERTIMEX withdrew completely from retail as
well as wholesale distribution; and all personnel was laid-off.
Comments
- FERTIMEX gross profit (sales, less costs of goods) decreased in 1988 and 1989 as a result of
the fertilizer price freeze under the macro-economic stabilization programs, and the start-up of the
highly unprofitable plant of Lazaro Cardenas. It improved in 1990, and, in 1991, for the first time
since 1982, it reached a positive value, reflecting the impact of plant rehabilitation and improved
management. However, operating losses, before financial expenses and GOM subsidy, increased
substantially, from about US$195 million in 1987 to about US$375 million in 1990, although they
subsequently decreased in 1991 to US$ 281 million. These high operating losses (in US$) were
mainly due to increases in distribution costs as a result of: (i) exchange rate fluctuations which did not
compensate for domestic inflation during the period 1987-91; (ii) withdrawal of BANRURAL from
fertilizer distribution; and (iii) increases in rail transport costs.
- Except in 1988, total FERTIMEX cash flow, after financial expenses and before budgetary
subsidy and principal payment on debt, was positive over the period 1987-91. This confirms that,
after restructuring, the operation of existing facilities could be sustainable. Furthermore, if, before
the beginning of 1991, FERTIMEX had already withdrawn from retail distribution, and, if the
maritime terminals had already been in operation, distribution costs could have been reduced by about
US$20 per ton of fertilizer (in 1987 constant terms, as estimated at appraisal). Such reduction would
have resulted in much lower operating losses and higher cash-flow. Under this scenario (were ex-
FERTIMEX prices would have been set at the wholesale level), the 1991 operating losses, in
Constant 1987 Mex$ converted to 1987 US$ (US$ 53.3 million) would have been generally in line
with operating losses as projected at appraisal for the same year (US$ 44.4 million).



FERn1kEX - PROFIT AM) LOSS STATE WNT
h OrrI 1JS$rmiqbir                                                                                                     hq ,rt  mtmi n
If Prle
at WWhidesa
1908      108      1906       19        100       1991 c,ip 1901           192                                                 1997      19a8      106W      10W       1901        1099
bi            d/
Eaiaie Rate (average ye)       6165      1379      2273      2461      2613       3018         3018       3095           Exd-re Rate (vrag-yea)                 1378     2273       2461      2813      3018        3096
E.dlaige Rate (arid -yar)             2210      2281      2641       2945     3071        3115
KMiPoinehPidv                      10,647.2  18,147.3  18,327.0  25.112.7  29,a32.5
Sat                            3775      3915      s333      5225      7091      8830         8a80        5544           Sal"                                50525  1.212.261  1.286.374  1,94,754 2,eo,022    1,7150,9
CoetatGoods                    5137      43(2      5S31      1a1      7792      81a1         81al        8l10           Cld Goods                           s92e3S 1,329,841  1.501.432 2.191,844  2,453.94    1.18.,296
Gross ProftAcoe              -130.2    -38.7    -51.7    -88.8    -70.1           es.0          80.9     -5.4            GrossPrdcilos,                      (53.310)  (117.58)  (213.05a)  (197.190)  211.058    (202297)
Less:                                                                                                                    L:
OributCcst                    84.1     1229      141.7     1e30      211.2      23a9          80.5      117.1            Distelbboo Coot                    180338   323041   401.054   504217   721,030        393s28
Satlhg Cost                              0.0       0.0      19.0      20.1       30.8         30.8       34.9            SaIlhg Cool                                            40.034    73.40    92,222       107,925
Adirnnratlon Etqperes                   32.1      41.0      43.5      44.8       84.0         54.0       8z7             Adhintraltlan Eprias               44.231    03,150   1o0638    123502   18z083        103070
Coo cidPtl Slopp.ge                      0.0       0.0       9.1      23.1       28.1         26.1       54.0            CostdPbLrdStappage                                      22.43    84.844    84,31      187,100
Sub-Tda        84.1      1sso     1827      2325       3021      351.8        1832       2867                         Sub-Total              213580   41&191   570477   856203  1,001,14e        831,801
OPERAnNGPPROFrT   -200.3   -193.7   -234.4   -322.0   -375.2   -261.7                -11Z3       -334.1                OPERATINGPROF(T              (28870)  (53Z771) (72.535) (1.056,9.3   (850090)  (,03#.aoq
Les:                                                                                                                     Les:
FhiwslalEe*y et               50.7    l01l    10Ls         13SS       -7.9      -4.0          -4.0       105             FhiarctEsxpersis %                 1541405   242002   333428   (2,140)  (11,978)        80,363
Otfe EnorpEae (bicn)         -183      -14.8       3.1    -32.7    -84.7       -58.2         -58.2      131.4            Other Epreu s (lr   )              (20.063)    7,052   (80.383)  (182.098) (100.722)    40e820
Nat Proth/(1.oes)bEae    -2327    -2882    -344.0   -4240    -302.8   -Z21.5            -52.1      -4                 Not PrdAL) b                     (307201)  (7815A2) (I,04s5)    (851,157) (e883oo)  (1.501.071)
Exlraordhary tet   and                                                                                                 Edraordhaty, Rom aid
Govarmrt SLubs dy                                                                                                     Goener       Subsidy
Depreciatort(i                           4404      2808      4904      307.8     2427         2437                       Depreiation/                        8s0a321   855352  1,219.279   88e35s   73z4s1
Toat Ceh -Uae bre  jb182    -54.3                             7e0.       5.0      21.2         19418                     T.a rhi- wbeiore Sjb                22Z.120  (123,473)  178a81    14.202    84W,a051
U,
hI Omidtt Deonbw 1987 MC  Otmetted to Mdtk US$                                                                                            hI 1907 Tmi MmS mistI
At toe wd-1957 Enmns Raf
N Prions As Pooeci                                                                                                 An Pmoeliede
Mt Wid_esat  t                                                                                                       at
1967     10ow       1ig       1990      1901       d         rirhia 9 or 199                                          1067      lse       194e      100       1901   for 1sin
hi
Sales                                    2441      381.7     321.1     3827      43Q4         43a14       7404           Sat"                                s3s25   790340   70.729   84s72e    51,114S         1685257
Co cd Goods                              2863      39s8      3743      4245      3963         398.3       84s3           Colcd Goode                         Sz835   87870   827.007    2s333   876810    142ee48
Gross PofKMos,                          -24.1    -35.1    -53.1       -37.8       34.1         34.1       1oa8           GrossProtKAoss                      (53,310)   77.530) (117.308)   (83,834)   75,328     220409
Los:                                                                                                                     Less
Dtstrbjti  Cost                         7e.8      s6.1     1oo0       1140      1164          32.4       94.4            DistrbloAin Coot                   180338   21Z347   22a4e0  251,034   2s7.33s         200533
Silhgicost                               0.0       0.0      12.2       14.1      14.0         14.9        0.0            SeathgCost                              0         0    20,65    31,141    32.914
Adc hain lratirn Expre                  20.0      27.8      28.7       24.1     23.3          28.3       S3.8            Adnhibtran, Escpases                44,231    81,421    58.so8    53,248   s5,181       11a62
Cot d PlantStoppage                      0.0       0.0       5.8       12.5      13.7         13.7        0.0            CosodPlf lSSto,page                     0         0    12,369    27,535    30,312
Sub-Tolml                0e.8     123a      1444       1848      171.4         87.4      1462                         Sub-Total              21a580   27378a   3190218   38a858   378722         327495
OPERAFnNG PROFIT                -120.    -1590    -1075    -202.5   -137.3            -53.3       -444                 OPERAnNG PROFIT              (288,8707) (351208)  (430.583)  (447,462)  (303.397)    -980es
Less:                                                                                                                    Less
FvuicalaEpnsese                         s8.1      72.2      83.1      -4.2      -1.0         -1.9         8.9            FiruciaJExpenses a/                15s405   150571   183875    (9.387)   (4,275)        21660
ter- Expe        (ri )                  -9.1       2.1    -20.0    -34.9    -27.4           -27.4         0.0            Oter- EDperee Onorne)              (20,663)    4,650   (44.270)  (77.34)  (80,574)
Nat Prd5/)Um) batr                -179 7    -2333    -280.8    -3.3   -107. 9           -23.        -54 3              Net Prdttl(L,ss) before        (397201) (   s15519)  (575,991)  (390O871) (2385_48)   -119948
E, dtryrda   te and                                                                                                    E.Iraordha   n. aid
Gv,,ae  Subsidy                                                                                                       Gv1errt Subsidy
Depreciaonc/                             2842      1064      3039      1860      1163         l113         0e.0          Dep6ribatnc/                        810321   434104   671,887   366,82   281,411         210518
Tda C          _ =s-8lb o__S y           1O0S    -36.8        43.3       27       103          94.3        446           Tofat Ced1-8re      SbyS            223120   (81,418)   95.676      8,021    22.a63      s5e,70



- 55 -
4.   Financial Performance of FERTIMEX
(Billion Pesos)
Dec. 3    Dec. 31, Nov. s0   Doc. S      Doc        Jun 30a   Dc 3    Dec1    Apr.30.
1987      t1988     1989      1989       1990      1991    1991        193        1993
Long term debt 1/             1,725.6   1,424.8   1,412.0      587.2      74.0      95.9     523.2        3.2       3.2
Equiy V                       2,392.0   5,363.5   6,015.0   3,999.0   5,656.3   6,080.5   8,143.1    1,53a.6   1,499.4
Current assets                  6s8.5     925.2     996.5   1,205.5   1,3a1.7   1,662.8   1.745.0       884.1     709.7
Current liabilities 3/         8s2.5      847.0   1,48a.0   1,448.3   1,495.4   1,407.3   1,050.3       522.7     391.8
RatjosActual
Long term debt/equity           39161     21/79      19/81     13/87      1/99      2/98       8/92   0.2/99.8   0.2/99.8
Current ratio                    0.76      1.09      0.67      0.83       0.91      1.13       1.66      1.69      1.81
Ratios:Financial Covenants
Long term debt/equity           40/6O     40/60     40/60      40/aO     40/6O     40/60     40/6O      40/6O     40/60
Current ratio                               1.1       1.2        1.2       1.3       1.4       1.4        1.5       1.5
1/ Up to May 31, 1990: includes porton of debt to be assumed by the
Government during the year.
2/ Equivalent to capital contable.
3/ Excludes porton of debt to be assumed by the Government during the year.
Also includes 'creditos diferidos'.
4/ Includes the restructuring of Mex$ 420 billion short term debt with Banamex.
Sources: FERTIMEX financial statements and audit reports.



- 56 -
C.           Economic Impact of New Investment Projects
1.  Paiaritos - Ammonium Nitrate Plant
As estimated
at Appraisal                     Actual
1987 USS       Current USS             Current USS
Capital Costs (Thousand)
Cost of Completion                                       44,963          48,277                  72,898
Cost Already incurred at Appraisal                                       24,132                  24,132
Total Cost                                                               72,409                  97,030
Production Capacit (tons per Year)
Diluted Nitric Acid Plant                                       215.000                         215,000
Prilled Ammonium Nitrate Plant                                  270,000                         270,000
Urea Ammonium Nitrate Solutions Plant (if completed)                 0                          670,000
Concentrated Nitric Acid Plant (if completed)                        0                           45,000
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Base Case
With total Investments Cost of Bank Financed Project               21.0                            1.90
With Costs Preceeding Appraisal Considered as Sunk Costs                                            4.4
With Ammonia Price -10%
With total Investments Cost of Bank Financed Project                                                 3
With Costs Preceeding Appraisal Considered as Sunk Costs                                            5.8
With Ammonium Nitrate Price     +10%
With total Investments Cost of Bank Financed Project                                                4.9
With Costs Preceeding Appraisal Considered as Sunk Costs                                            8.2
With Ammonium Nitrate Price     +20%
With total Investments Cost of Bank Financed Project                                                7.4
With Costs Preceeding Appraisal Considered as Sunk Costs                                           11.2
With Ammonium Nitrate Price + 10% and Ammonia price -10%
With total Investments Cost of Bank Financed Project                                                5.8
With Costs Preceeding Appraisal Considered as Sunk Costs                                            9.3
Assumptions:
Production build-up: 70% in year 1, 80% in year 2, 90% in year 3 and 100% afterwards.
Working capital is estimated at US$6.7 million.
15 years of operation.
Ammonia and ammonium nitrate prices are estimated based on the Bank long
term projections for urea (in 1993 US$).
Operating costs, overheads and distribution costs are based on 1991 Minatitlan plant costs.
Detailed Calculations of ERR are given in Annex 1.
Bank fianced project' excludes the UAN solutions and concentrated nitric acid plants.
som, .*



- 57 -
2.   Maritime Terminals
As estimated                             Original Amounts                                Actual
at Appraisal                             of Contracts
(aS of end-19901
Capital Costs (mililon]                                                                                                                 In 1987 MexS      In 1990 MexS
In Current In Current In 1987  Converted to USS Convertec to US$
1987 USS                       urrent USS         In Pesos  Current USS       MexS       USS       USS       At 1987 Rate      At1990 Rate
Topolobampo                     7.71                           8,59              29,074       9.98         47,857     15.72     13.43              7.37             13.04
Altamira                       10.70                          11.91              31 172      10.88         53,418     17.48     14.82              8.05             14.24
Total Sub-project
(including ail smail terminals)  25.80                        28.50                                                   31.24     28.30
Warehouse Capacity (tonsa
Topolobampo                             20,000                                   20,000                                        20,000
Altamira                                30,000                                   20,000                                        20,000
Annual Volumes (tons)
Topolobampo                            236,000                                                                                383,000
Altamira                               282,000                                                                                282,000
TotaJ Sub-project                     1,212,000                                                                              1.212,000
Annuat Savings (millon)
Topolobampo                     1.24                                                                                             1.11
Altamira                        2.03                                                                                             1.88
Total Sub-project               8.25                                                                                             5 68
Economic Rate of Return
Topolobampo                    13.00                                                                                             4 73
Altamira                        17.7                                                                                             9 23
Total Sub-project               29.7                                                                                             20,5
Comments:
1/ to assess the effect of exchenge rate variations which did not compensate for domestic Inflation during tri period
1987-92, actual investment costs In pesos were adjusted to constant 1987 pesos terms, using the and-year nationai price
Index (INPC) and converted to USS using the year-end 1987 exchange rate. The resulUng costs are In line with
appraJsal estimates In 1987 USS terms, In these conditions, the cost of the Altamira terminal In fact appears lower, due to the
important simplilfcation included at Bank's request In the final design of the wharehouse (roduction of the
capacity from 30,000 tons to 20.000 tons, elimination of an expensive reclaim screper system etc...)
21 Also, In order to assess the effect of the above appreciation In the real exchange rate on
overruns ocurred above contracts initial amounts, actuai cost in pO909 were adjusted to 1990 constaLnt pesos and
converted to USS using the end- 1990 exchange rate. The resulting costs obtalned for both terminal remains about 32% higher
than the originai contract amounts. These overruns are due to: (i) unforseen offaites facilities originally to be provided
by the port authority; (ii) design changes after contract signature without Bank agreement; and (lli contact cancellation costs (Part I, Para. 5, (2)).
V Rates of return were calculated In the same conditions as at appraisal: (I) annual benefits are annual savings
betweer, the wlth and without project scenarios; (ii) an operating lite of 15 years; (lli except for Topolobampo, throughput
volume were assumed to be the same as at appraisal, but, for Topolobampo. It Is considered that the
terminal will nandle volumes originaily nandiad by the projected Guaymas terminal which was cancelled



- 58 -
D. Studies
Study                           Purpose as defined at                Status                 Impact of the Studv
apDraisal
Reorganization Study         To develop an improved        In light of early progress   These studies provided the
organization structure for   achieved by GOM and           basis for defining and
FERTIMEX in the medium       FERTIMEX in the               implementing FERTIMEX's
and long term necessary to    definition of the            ambitious restructuring and
carry out the new company    restructuring option          privatization program. It
strategic plan.              (including disengagement      allowed FERTIMEX to
from primary as well as      define its strategy and the
secondary distribution) and  systems necessary for an
in order to avoid possible   orderly withdrawal from
overlap and coordination     distribution.
problems between the
organization and distribution
studies, FERTIMEX
proposed, and the Bank
accepted, to integrate them
into one study (Cambio
Estructural y
Redimensionamiento de
FERTIMEX). The revised
terms of reference for this
study not only required the
consultant to assist with all
changes in the
Distribution Study           Study of alternative methods   organizational structure,
(and their respective        systems, staffing and
implications for             fuctions necessary to set in
FERTIMEX) to withdraw        place the proposed
from retail and              structure, but also with
consignement operations      preparations for
and to establish a list of   privatization of FERTIMEX
retail outlets in marginal   production and distribution
areas.                       activities. This study also
integrated all distribution
and commercial aspects
which were previously part
of the distribution study.
This study was carried out
suceesfully by Booz Allen
& Hamilton of Mcxico
(BAH), jointly with
FERTIMEX management
and with extensive
participation of FERTIMEX
General Manager and
Directors.



- 59 -
Study                          Purpose as defined at                                    Impact of the Studv
aopraisal
Study to assist with the    Complementary study to      The Bank accepted the
detailed implementation of   assist FERTIMEX with the    direct contracting of BAH
the proposed                detailed implementation of    given the urgency of the
reorganization              the reorganization,         study and BAH's thorough
including the preparation of   knowledge of FERTIMEX
detailed procedures,        and of its proposed
manuals, and staff profiles.    organization structure
accumulated in the course
of the first study.
Phosphate Rock Study        To develop specifications   The phosphate study was     The study essentially
for various types of        carried out by ATFER of     presented a diagnostic of
phosphate rock to be used   France. Even though         the different phosphate
in FERTIMEX plants; a       procurement of phosphate    fertilizer plants and
method of comparative       rock under ICB was no       revamping
economic evaluation of the    longer needed for loan    recommendations for the
various rock types; and     disbursement (the import    optimization of their
defuLition of optimal       component of the loan was    operation. In addition,
operating conditions for    reduced to allow the use of    ATFER provided a ready-
each rock type.             USS 150 million as set      made computer program for
asides for debt reduction),    the comparison of different
the Bank considered that the   phosphate rocks. However,
study was still worth      the main objective of the
carrying out as it could    study, to prepare a bid
provide FERTIMEX with       evaluation methodology for
an optimization            inclusion in bidding
methodology for rock        documents for rock
purchases, regardless of    purchases, was not fully
procurement methods.        achieved.
Technical Assistance and                                Not implemented
Training.



- 60 -
Studv                          Purpose as defined at              Status                Impact of the Study
appraisal
Environmental Impact        During a mission visit to   FERTIMEX contracted the    In order to restart the
Assessment (EIA) of         LC in October 1989, the     Mexican consulting fu-m     phosphoric acid plants with
gypsum and contaminated    Bank realized the difficulties   EPAC directly with its own    only one gypsum pipe
*water disposal to the sea  encountered by FERTIMEX    funds to carry out the EIA    repaired to a length of 70
in Lazaro Cardenas (1,C).   in so]ving the problem of   study. The study concluded   meters, the new owner of
gypsum and contaminated    that the impact of gypsum    LC entered into an
disposal to the sea and     disposal was limited to 200    agreement with CNA.
recommended financing of    meters around the discharge    Under this agreement, the
the following two studies   point. After review of the  new owner was required to:
undcr the loan: (a) an      EPAC final report, the      (i) construct a pipe
Environmental Impact Study   Bank insisted on the need  discharging at 300m from
to be carried-out by a      for a more complete follow    the shore within two years;
specialized consultant to   up environmental impact     (ii) conduct an EIA
assess the actual impact of    study to be carried out by a    following completion of the
gypsum and contaminated     consultanting firm with     300m gypsum pipe; and
water sea disposal and      experience in gypsum sea    (iii) carry out any further
recommend and define the    discharges. The             works recommended by the
necessary remedial system;    contracting of the consulting   study. It appears that the
and (b) a study by an       firm for undertaking the    environmental agency has
engineering firm specialized   study was suspended when  more leverage on a private
in undersea construction to    the two gypsum pipes broke   enterprise than on a public
design the system           in September 1992 during    enterprise and that, finally,
recommended by the          an earthquake. The LC       there is some hope that a
environmental consultant.   plant was divested and      solution can be found to
delivered to its new owner    this problem.
in December 1992 with the
phosphosphoric acid plants
stopped and problems with
the Comision Nacional de
Agua (CNA) unresolved.
D)esign and engineer the                                Could not be implemented
s)stem recommended by                                   before the EIA was
the EIA study for gypsum                                completed.
disposal
Environmenital Impact       FERTIMEX decided not to    The environmental impact     The study concluded that
Assessment of the gypsum    implement the gypsum        study was carried-out by the   the impact of the
slurrying contaminated      water recycle sub-project   Mexican consulting firm      contaminated gypsum water
water disposal to the sea   due its cost and to the     EPAC and completed before   disposal was minimal,
in Pajaritos                acceleration of the Pajaritos   the plant was delivered to  limited to a 60 meter radius
Fosfatados plant divestiture.   its new owner.          around the discharge point.
Due to the environmental                                However, the new plant
impact, the Bank requested                              owner has signed an
that FERTIMEX prepare a                                 environmental agreement
study of the impact of the                              with CNA requiring the
disposal to the sea of the                              implementation within two
gypsum contaminated water.                              years of the gypsum water
recycling system to avoid
any discharge to the sea.



- 61 -
7.   Use of Bank Resources
A.      StatT Inputs
Staff
Sta2e of Proiect Cycle                    Weeks                            Comments
Actual
Preparation, Sector Study                   94.3    A detailed sctor study was carried out and the resulting
"Fertilizer Sector Restructuring Program' was prepared by the
Bank and submitted to GOM.
Pre-Appraisal                               69.2
Appraisal                                   45.2
- Subtotal                              208.7
Appraisal through Board Approval            15.9
Board Approval through Effectiveness        23.9    The loan was signed in June 1988 and became effective only in
November 1989. Essentially, in 1988 and early in 1989 it
suffered from GOM macro-economic measures and required the
renegotiation of the implementation schedule of the adjustment
program.
- Subtotal including appraisal          248.5
Supervision                                112.3
PCR Preparation                             12.8
- Total                                 373.6
Comments
l. Intense project supervision was necessary for this hybrid policy and investment loan to: (i)
ensure continuity during Government and FERTIMEX management changes, and renegotiate policy
conditionality before effectiveness; (ii) monitor compliance with policy conditions and secure the first
and second tranche release; (iii) adjust the investment program several times to better reflect priorities
identified while implementing policy adjustment measures; and (iv) follow-up the adjustment of the
fertilizer sub-sector and the implementation of FERTIMEX's restructuring program, which
culminated, within two years, in the complete decontrol of the sub-sector and in the entire divestiture
of FERTIMEX's assets.



- 62 -
B.    Missions
Sa2e of         Month/Year    Number    Days tI    Soedaisation of   Performance           Type of Problems
Proiect Cvcle                     of        Fleld c/    mission member       Rating
Persons                       a/           Jittu b/
Identification     06/85          n.a         n.a            n.a
Preparation        11/85          6           26          Eco, Eng
Follow-up          05/86          2           4              Eco                         Discussion of the
Mission                                                                                  Sector Restructuring
Prgram prepared by
the Bank
Follow-up          07/86           1          2              Eco                         idem
Mission
Pre-Appraisal     11-12/86        6           30        Eco, Eng, FA
Appraisal          04/87          4           20        Eco, Eng, FA
Supervision
1            05/88          2           6           Eco, Eng             1
2            09/88           2           4           Eco, Eng            2         Delays in contracting
the organization and
distribution studies
3            01/89          2           7           Eco, Eng             3         Delays in meeting the
conditions for
effectiveness and in
implementing the
agreed price
increases.
4            10/89           2          17           Eco, Eng            2         Procurement, tenders
for two miajor
maritime terminals
were void and the
design was reviewed.
5            01/90          2           6           Eco, Eng             2         Delays in the
implementation of the
studies and of the
project investments,
deterioration in
FERTIMEX's
financial situation.



- 63 -
Sta2e of        MonthfYear    Number    Days In    Specialisalon Of   Performance            Tvne of Problems
Proiect Cycle                       f        Fleld c/    mission members       Ratlng
Persons                       al             Statu b/
6           05-06/90         2           25           Eeo, Eng             2         Investments sub-
project management,
financial performance,
delays in meeting the
conditions for second
tranche release,
including withdrawal
from distribution.
7             12/90          2            5           Eco, Eng             2         Financial
perfornance, delays
in withdrawal from
distribution
8            04/91           2            9           Eco, Eng             2         Pinancial
perfomunce,
investment program.
9             07/91          3           10         Eeo, Eng, PA           2         Financial
perfomamce,
investmntB
management and cost
control
10            12/91           2           9            PA, Eng              I        Management and cost
control of investment
sub-projects
11          05-06/92          2           9           FA, Eng               I        idem
12            10/92          2            7           FA, Eng               I        idem
13            06/93           2           10          Eeo, Eng              I        idem
Comments
a/ Key to Specialization:
Eng: Engineer
Eco: Economist
FA : Financial Analyst
b/ Key to Status:
1: Problem-free or Minor Problems
2: Moderate Problems
3: Major Problems
c/ In May-June 1990, in addition to project supervision, the mission: (i) contributed to the completion
report of the Public Enterprise Reform Loan; and (ii) initiated FERTIMEX-related preparatory work
for a proposed Second Public Enterprise Reform Loan.
d/ The preparation of this PCR started during the final supervision mission in June 1993.



- 64 -
8.    Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants
Agreement and Section         Description             Date in            Proposed            Status             Comments
Covenant           revised date
LOAN AGREEMENT
2.03                           Closing date           Dec. 31, 1993                          OK
3.01(a)                        Contractual                                                   OK
Agreement with
Guarantor for
transfer of funds
3.01(b)                        Subsidiary Loan                                               OK
Agreement with
FERTIMEX
4.01                          Audit report of         6 months after                         OK
Loan accounts          end of fiscal
year
6.01                           Conditions of                                                 OK
effectiveness
PROJECT AGREEMENT
2.05(a)                        Six-monthly                                                   OK
exchange of views
2.06 (a), as amended on        Completion first       Dec. 15, 1989      Sept. 30, 1990      OK                 Bank agreed on
09/26/89                       phase distribution                                                               consolidation of Dist. and
study                                                                            Org. studies
2.06(b), as amended on         Begin withdrawals      Oct.15, 1989                           OK
09/26/89
2.06(c), as amended on         Complete second        Mar. 15, 1989      Sept. 30, 1990      OK                 Bank agreed to
09/26/89                       phase of                                                                         consolidation of Dist. and
distribution study                                                               Org. studies
2.06(d), as amended on        Cease retail and        Febr. 28, 1990     Oct. 30, 1990       OK
09/26/89                       consignment op.
equivalent to at
least 10% of 1987
sales
2.07(a), as amended on         Initiate               Sept. 15, 1989                         OK
09/26/89                      Organization study



- 65 -
2.07(b), as amended on        Complete first          Jan.15, 1990                           OK
09/26/89                      phase of
organization study
2.07(c), as amended on        Exchange views on       Feb.28, 1990       Dec. 6, 1989        OK
09/26/89                       recommen dations
2.07(d), as amended on        Complete second         July 30,1990       Oct. 31, 1990       OK                 Delays due to decision to
09/26/8 9                      phase of                                                                         consolidate with Dist.
organization study                                                               study
2.07(e)                        Implement plan of                                             OK                 Adjusted to reflect
action as scheduled                                                              accelerated privatization
in study
2.08, as amended on            Complete               Nov.30, 1989       May 04, 1990        OK
09/26/89                       phosphate rock
study
2.09(b)                        Investment                                                    OK
program limited to
economically
viable investments
2.09(c)                        Annual investment      June 30 of                            OK                  For 1993 no investment
program presented      each year                                                 progam was authorized.
to the Bank for                                                                  Fertimex is being
review                                                                           liquidated
2.10, as amended on           Plant closure                                                  OK
09/26/89                      program
4.01                           Audit of project       6 months after                         OK
accounts and           end of each
financial statements  fiscal year
4.02                           Debt service           at all times                           OK
coverage ratio
4.03                          Debt equity ratio       at all times                           OK
4.04                          Current ratio           at all times                           OK
GUARANTEE
AGREEMENT
3.06(a), as amended on        Increases in price      as per                                 OK                 Since April 1992 the
09/26/89                      of ammonia              schedule                                                  price of ammonia has
been set at export parity



- 66 -
and is currently
negotiated between
Pemex and the plants
owners
3.06(b), as amended on          Domestic fertilizer      by Sep. 30                              OK
09/26/89                        prices to increase       1989
by 18.8% in
nominal peso terms
by 12.3% in             through at                               OK                  On Oct. 30, 1991 prices
constant Dollar         least two                                                    for FERTIMEX was
terms annually,         increasea per                                                fixed at plant gate and at
starting 1990           year                                                         export/import parity,
Currently prices are
decontrolled
3.07                            Maintain tariff          at all times                            OK                   Clause amended
structure as of
Dec. 15,1987 and
impose no NTBs
3 10, as amended on             Increase price of        increase to                             OK
09/26/89                        sulfur to, and then      export parity
maintain it at,         by Sep.30,
export parity           1989
Schedule 1, as added on         Conditions of first
09/26/89                        tranche release:
para.l                     18.8% increawe in        see section                             OK
fertilizer prices       3.06(b) above
para.2                     initiation of            ee sections                             OK
distribution,           2.06,2.07&2.0
organization and        8 of Project
phos.rock studies       Agreement
above
para.3                     initiation of           see section                              OK
withdrawals from        2.06(b) of
distribution            Project
Agreement
above
para.4                     increase sulfur         see section                              OK
price to export         3.10 of
parity                  Guarantee
Agreement
above
Schedule 2                      Conditions of
second tranche
release



- 67 -
para.1                    implement. of           see section                           OK
as amended on             1988 and 1989           2.10 of Project
09/26/89                       plant closure          Agreement
programs               above
para.2                    completion of          see sections       end-October         OK
distribution study;    2.06(c),2.07(b)    1990
of Phase I of         ,and 2.06(d) of
organization study     Project
and option             Agreement
selection; and         above
withdrawals from
distribution for
10% of 1987 sales
para.3                    satisfactory           see section                            OK
as amended                implement. of          2.09 of Project
on 09/26/89                    acceptable 1989        Agreement
and 1990               above
investment
program;
satisfactory review
of 1991 program
para .4                   (a) Increase in         see section                           OK
as amended on             ammonia price to        3.06(a) of
09/26/89                       at least 50% of        Guarantee
export value by        Agreement
end-December           above
1990 and to 60%
by end of 1991
(b) Increase in        see section                            OK
fertilizer prices by   3.06(b) of
12.3% in constant      Guarantee
end-1987 Dollar        Agreement
prices per year        above
(c) Sulfur prices      see section                            OK
maintained at          3.10(ii) of
export parity          Guarantee
Agreement
above



Anrox I
PoaJautos Ammonium Nttate
Eoonomio Rate of Return Caloulations
(rh and USS)
1      2       1       4              1fi     1 Z             t _   10     11      12      12     14      15
YAW                              14    19tlS    I OM   19t1 7   1918    191 9   1990   1W1 1992    1993    194   1IS19920    1997    1998    1999    2000   2001 20029           i203  2004  290            2000   2007
W.C hdu                                                10847  25,112  29,832 33,4D0
E    phngs nbt                                          2.210   2,945   3,071   3,11S
hSJV                               e8      89      01     89      95      95    100    102    107
Orfk*l Eiknstm hI 1987 tms ikr PbWt CXm,Iskn           44,953
AIm  hweitywt Cot hI Curwnt US$
- Cost t to Apprid              6,030   5,841   5.297   4.3C4                                               24,132
- ctd Plwt Conisonta  Ir      prdl                    11,188  15438   12852  11,434  14,9D9   7.20          7289
A,1s WNmetmt Cod hI Cott 199t USS
-CostutoAppras                 1Z949   6,896   0,o8   4018        0       0      0       0       0
-ostlPKw CCoplisdIn          ~apsal                   12867  14458  13,C49  11,a75  14,999   0A6
- VRt  capis                                                                                         0736                                                                                                       (3.7355
- Cos up to ApprsW3
- Cot d PINt Conpd sm          pprl                                                                                                                                                                             (7.80
Procdixtin Cash fln 1991 US3
- Pt. d ULre In Bt* (LU"oro      0.85                                                                  99    105    115    134    134    134    134    134    130    130    130    130    130    130    130
-PeoedAnnoniain IW L1S$ icr Dcrmisstb use In Mutso (YS$"                                               72      77      83     97      97      97     97      97      94      94     94      94      94      94     94
- PrlimdArnaWra ki 1991  la Doestt ue In Mambo (USSw                                                   73      78      85     go      go      go      99     go      96      96     96      98      96      9e     90
Cost d                                                                                                awnor  782  10.038  11,291  12545  1Z545  1z545  1Z545  12545  12171  12171  1Z171  1Z171  1Z171  1Z171  1Z171
Ottw Opwatcrn Comb                                                                                    0,10  1A075  11,335  1Z594  12594  12594  12s94  1Z594  12.594  12594  lZ594  1Z504  1Z594  12594  159zs4
Ove,mld                                                                                               1.714   1,956   2203   2448   2448   2448   Z448   a448   Z448   2,448   Z448   Z448   2445   Z448   Z448
DAbbx*tion Clmb                                                                                        970   1,108   1.247   1,38e   1,38s   1,388   1,388   t30a   1,136   1,38    138    1,388   1,386   1,386   1.386
To  ProduplonCosts                                                                                   20 281 23.1       0792 a   2as 73 22973 2   28973  2   2as73  2      2922 5     2        25 2 22    2
PRte d Begged Ajmwcrikn
N4rog In ccrtarw 19W US$                   1.0                                                          102    1(8    117    135    135    135    13x    135    131    131    131    131    131    131    131
Prbs d Baggd  nnlmnn  NOrM
Inoorulat 1991 18                                                                                       104    ill    119    138    138    138    13B    138    134    134    134    134    134    134    134
PAnuss In 1991 crataUt 2US                                                                                   2 706  33421  37.1   37.135  37.135  3715  37.135  X1 09  3           a11    xW   3t1         1W  3aog
Bmn btwkWnbnw                   (8,830  (5,841) (5,297) (15,50) (15,382 (1Z652) (11,434) (14,99) (7.328  (1.022)  8,529   7,345   8,182   8.12   6.182   8,12   8,102   7.510   7,510   7.510   7,510   7,510   7.510  25,239
A i3 Wih  Cbo        ot       d _
gunkCld(Cm,W odm Prr4acq                              (11,180) (15,3f  (1Z.52) (11,434) (14.999)  (7,326   (102   8.529   7.345   8.102   8,102   6,12   8,182   0,1a2   7,510   7.510   7,510   7,510   7,510   7,510  21,W04
0.1
iER br TdJ P ie  nQ                1.
ERR Om'Cor    ndon Proind t        4.4



- 69 -
Annex 2
Maritime Terminals
Capital Costs Calculations
(million)
1987     1990      1991     1992                total
INPC index                            10647    25112    29832    33400
Exchange rate                          2210     2945      3071     3115
Original Estimates in 1987 terms (US$ million)
Topolobampo                                                    7.71
Altamira                                                      10.70
Total cost as of July 1993 (including completion cost)
in current pesos
Topolobampo                   26,920.00 20,937.00         47,857.00
Altamira                     19,878.00 33,538.00          53,416.00
in 1987 pesos
Topolobampo                   9,607.71  6,674.14          16,281.85
Altamira                      7,094.43 10,690.99          17,785.42
in 1987 pesos converted to US$ at 1987 rate
Topolobampo                       4.35     3.02               7.37
Altamira                          3.21     4.84                8.05
in 1990 Pesos
Topolobampo                  22,660.73  15,741.62         38,402.35
Altamira                     16,732.92 25,215.76          41,948.67
in 1990 pesos converted to US$ at 1990 rate
Topolobampo                       7.69     5.35               13.04
Altamira                          5.68     8.56               14.24



- 70 -
Annex 3
Divestiture of FERTIMEX's Production Units
Production Unit         Production Caoacitv      Year of Start-Uc    Divestituw    Sale Price             Current Name                     New Owner
Thus per Yar of 1isbed                          Date         (million
Product
Torreon, Coha.            A.Sulfatc:       200,000   1966/79           March 4,      MeCS    39.82   Ferticy, S.A de CV.              Fertiry, S.A de CV.
1991         USS       13.32
Coatzacoalcos, Wr.        A.Sulfiat        200,000   1966/79           March 6,      McxS      4.57   Servicios y Materiales de        -Servicios Y Materiales de
DAP               82,500   1970              1991          USS       1.53   Minatitlan S.A. de CV.          Minatitlan, S.A. de CV.
Bajio, Gto.               Urea 1            56,000   1963 closed       Dec. 17,      MeCS    95.97   FeRnilizants Quimicos Mexicanos    Sind. de la Ind. Qimica,
Uea 2            330,000   1980              1991          USS      31.47                                   PeSi uim mica, Carboquimica
Sim. y Conaxos.
Camargo, Chih.            Urea              75,000   1968              Dec. 17,      MexS    25.05   Fertilizantes Quimicos Mexicanos    Sind. de la Ind. Qimica,
1991         USS        8.21                                  Petroquinmica, Carboquimica
Sim. Y ConCosL
Guadalajama, Jal.         A. SulfIat       278,700   1968/79           March 3,      MexS      11.33   Ferilizantes Guadalajara S.A. de  Fertilizantes Guadalajama S.A. de
TSP               40,000   1980 closed       1992          USS       3.70   CV.                             CV.
Moncloa, Coah.            A. Nitrate        68,000   1959              March. 11,    MexS    36.02   Nitroamonia de Mexico S.A. de    Nitroamonia de Mcxico S.A de
NPK               66,000   1963              1992          USS      11.77   CV.                             CV.
Salamnanca, Gto.          Pesticides                                   Apr. 4, 1992   MeCS     17.87   Velpol S.A. de CV.             Velpol S.A. de CV.
USS       5.83
Paiarits Complex:
- Pajarimos Nitrognados   Urea 1           495,000   1982                                                                             Agroinmuebles Agzmfosfatados,
Urca 2           495,000   1984             June 22,                        Agronitrogenados, S.A. de CV.   Agroadministacion, S.A de CV.
A. Nitrate       270,000   1992-compleed     1992
under this project              McS    473.75
US$     153.10
- PajariDs Fosfatados     TSP              270,000   1969                                             Agrofosfatados, S.A de CV.
Ph. Acid Technic  172,500   1969
Queretaro, Qro            A. Sulfitc       594,000   1978/81           Jul. 10,      MexS       7.0   Agrogen S.A. de CV.             Agrogen S.A. de CV. y
SSP              300,000   1979              1992          USS       2.26                                   PromoS. m A Imobilir do Merida
Tecun Uman                NPK               66,000   1971              Jul. 27,      MexS      2.20   Quimica Omega Mcxicana S.A.     Quimica Omega Mexicana S.A.
1992         USS        0.71



- 71 -
Production Unit         Production Capacity     Yar of Start-Up    Divestiture     Sale Price            Current Name                     New Owner
Tbns Der Yar of Finished                       Date          (iion)
Products
Minatitlan, Wr.           Urea 1            54,500   1962 closed       Dec. 2,       Mex$    115.04  Fertilizantes de Minatitlan S.A de    Fertilizintcs de Minatitlan S.A de
Urea 2           247,500   1971              1992         USS       37.17   CV.                            CV.
A. Nitrate       100,0001 1961/66
NPK              149,000   1962/66
Complejo de LAzaro        DP (or TSP)      650,000   1987
Cardenas, Mich. (together    NPK           250,000
with the Rofomex's        A. Nitrate       270,000                     Dec. 21,      MexS   155,30  Grupo Empresarial del Bajio, S.A    Grupo Empresarial dcl Bajio S.A.
phosphat mine in Baja                                                  1992          USS       50.18  de CV.                          de CV.
California)
Total Production Units                                                           MexS   983.92
USS     319.25
DIVES



