Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
t.Aj 21 
Report No. P-4639-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSIRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUJNT EQUIVALENT TO US$265 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITd THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
February 29, 1988
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
The exchange rate as of the date of appraisal (April 20, 1987)
US$1 - Mex$ 1,147.70. On February 19, 1988, the exchange rate in
the controlled market was Us$ 1 - Mex$2,261; the free exchange rate
was US$ 1  Mex$2,300.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha)     10,000 square meters (m2) - 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg) - 2.205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograms = 1 metric ton (t) - 0.98 long ton
i liter (1) = 0.26 gallons (gal)
I British Thermal Unit (BTU) - 252 kCal
ABBREVIATIONS
ASL        - Agricultural Sector Loan
BANRURAL   -  National Rural Credit Bank
CONASUPO   - NationcU Basic Foods Company
EFF        - Extended Fund Facility
ERR        - Economic Rate of Returr.
FERTIMEX   - Mexican Fertilizer Company (Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.)
FSAL       -  Fertilizer Sector AdJustment Loan
GDP        -  Gross Domestic Product
ICB        -  International Competitive Bidding
Il4F       -  International Monetary Fund
IRL        -  Industrial Restructuring Loan
NTB        -  Non-Tariff Barrier
NAFIN      - National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera, SNC)
PEMEX      - Mexican Oil Company (Petroleos Mexicanos)
SARH       - Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
SEMIP      - Ministry of Mining, Energy and Parastatal Industry
SHCP       - Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
SIDERMEX   - Mexican Steel Company
SPP        - Ministry of Programming and Budgeting
TPL        -  Trade Policy Loan



F1O CIAL tN  ONLY
MEXICO - FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN I
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMNARY ...............      ............................*****        i
PART I - TME ECONOMY ......... 
A.   Background ...e.............eeeee ........................            I
B.   Recent Economic Developments .. *0***o   *e........e......e....e..,   4
C.   Development Prospects.......................................          7
D.   External Debt and Creditwortbiness..........................          8
PART Il - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR .................................         8
A.   Fertilizer Use in Mexican Agriculture           ......................  9
B.   Fertilizer Production and Distribution          .....................  10
C.   Policy Environment ......................... ...............         12
PART III - THE PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM ...................        14
A.   Policy Measures         .....................................e....a.  15
(a)  Physical Restructuring of Production Facilities  ....    15
(b)  Fertilizer Distribution .....................               16
(c)  Fertilizer and Fertilizer Inputs Pricing Policy  ....    17
(d)  Fertilizer Imports          ....................*.....      20
Ce) Links Between PEMEX and FERTIMEX for Ammonia and
Urea Production  .....       .............................  21
(f)  OrguiWzation Restructuring ................0.......         21
(g)  Flnancial Restructuring ............................        22
(h)  FERTIMEX's Investment Criteria          .....................  23
B.   The Investment Program ....*....................ee.......           23
PART IV - THE PROPOSED OPERATION           ...............................  24
A.   Objectives              ...........................                 24
B.   Description and Loan Components ......e................             25
(a)  The Import Comwponent ...............................       25
(b)  Rationalization Investments - Production ...........        26
(c)  Rationalization of Distribution Infrastructure......        26
(d)  Technical Aasistance Component .....     ................   28
1/ Called "Fertilizer Sector Loan' in the Legal Documents.
Thi document has mtkd distbuton and my be usd by npins onl in  peajtfmsmo
of thd oflk dutis Its contents may no othewie be  kxd wiwhutr Wod Lwk au,..



- li -
Table of Contents (Continued)
C.   Costs and Financing          ....................................*...    28
D.   Ialementation, Borrowing Arrangements, Monitoring
and Auditing ...--....                                              29
(e)  Implementation.    ...       *...........0,,*oe   ..............e..    29
(b) Borrowing Arrangements, Onlending Terms
and Conditions .....o..................**o**o *****    29
(c)  Monitoring and Reporting         ..........................  29
(d)  Auditing  .*....oo.**.........o .o.....o.**o9**.******     29
B.   Procurement and Disbursements         ..............................  30
(a)  Procurement ......... .....      ........................o    30
(b)  Disbursements oo.oo.eoeeeoo      .............oo o *o .    31
(c) Effectiveness and Tranche Release        ..................  32
P.   Effects of the Proposed Program           ............................    32
(a) Economic and Financial Viability of FERTIKEX  .......       32
(b)  Impact on the National Budget  .....................    34
(c)  Impact on the Balance of Payments  .................       35
(d)  Impact on the Agricultural Sector  *.......*.. **..   -.   35
(e)  Social Impact of Adjustments ..        .....................    36
(f)  Environmental Impact                     ................ ........ *eo  37
G.   Benefits and Risks ....................    38
(a) Economic and Financial Viability of Investments
Financed Under the Loan         .........................*..    38
(b)  Loan Justification and Risks ......................    39
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO ......        ..................    40
A.  Bank Operations *.................... ............e....    40
Be  IPC Operations ...............................                       40
C.  Bank Strategy *o.......................                   ..*ee      41
D.  Past Bank Lending in the Fertilizer Sector          ..................    43
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF              ..................    44
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION .......*         ......................*...    44



- ili -
Annex  I.   Social and Economic Indicators:  Social Indicators, Balance
of Payments, Macroeconomic Indicators;
Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex II.   Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Annex III. Government's Statement of Sectoral Policies - Draft
Annex IV.   Policy Matrix
Annex V.    Production and Distribution Structure
Table I - Summary of International Competitiveness of Existing
Plants
Table 2  - Plant Closure Program - 1986-89
Table 3  - Fertilizer Distribution By Channels
Table 4 - Distribution of Warehousing Capacity - 1985
Table. 5 - Warehousing Capacity for Primary Storage
Annex VI.   The Investment Program and Supply and Demand Balances
Table 1 - Tentative Medium-Term Investment Program -
1987-92
Table 2 - Fertilizer Supply and Demand Projections - 1986-95
Annex VII.  Fertilizer.in Mexican Agriculture - Current Status and
Possible Impact of Prcposed Price Changes
Table 1 - Fertilizer Prices
Table 2 - Nominal Pritection Coefficients for Major Crops
Table 3 - Projected Changes in Weig'hted Average International
and Domestic Prices
Table 4 - Tariff Duties On Selected Fertilizers
Annex VIII. Project Costs, Procurement and Disbursements, Implemetntation
Schedules and Economic Justification
Table 1 - Total Project Costs
Table 2 - Procurement and Disbursements
Table 3 - Projected Imports of Fertilizer and Fertilizer
Raw Materials
Table 4 - Capital Cost Estimates - Project Investments
Table 5 - Institution Building and Technical Assistance
Table 6 - Implementation Schedules of Proposed Investments
Table 7  - Plant Rehabilitation Projects - Summary
Table 8 - Primary Warehouses - Summary
Table 9 - Maritime Terminals - Summary
Table 10 - Ammonia Spheres - Summary
Table 11 - Economic Analysis and Sensitivity - Ammonium Nitrate
Plant
Table 12 - Primary Warehouses - Sensitivity Analysis
Table 13 - Maritime Terminals - Sensitivity Analysie
Table 14 - Ammonia Spheres - Sensitivity Analysis



- iv -
ANNEXES (Continued)
Annex IL   Past and Projected Financial Performance of FERTIMEX
Table 1 - FERTIMEX Balance Sheet - 1982-86
Table 2 - FERTIMEX Profit and Loss Statement - 1982-86
Table 3 - Projected Financial Statements of FERTIMEX -
Profit and Loss Statement
Table A - Projected Financial Statements of FERTINEX -
Funds Flow Statement
Table 5 - Projected Financial Statements of FERTIMEX -
Balance Sheet
Table 6 - Projectec Financial Statements of FERTINEX -
Working Capital Requirements
Annex X.    Distribution Study - Terms of Reference, Study Arrangements and
Proposed Calendar.
Annex XI.   Organization Study of FERTIMEX - Terms of Reference,
Study Arrangements and Proposed Calendar
Annex XII.  List of Documents in the Project File
MA- IBRD 20435



MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN M
Loan Summary
Borrower      : Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor     : United Mexican States
Beneficiary   : Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A (FERTIMEX)
Amount        : US$265 million equ..valent
Terms         : 15 years, including three yeare of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms        e NAFIN would relend funds for investments, studies and
training components to FERTIMEX at the Bank rate plus 10l
of that rate with the same repayment and grace periods as
Bank funds to NAFIN. Funds for the imports of fertilizer
and fertilizer raw materials and other imports would be
passed on by NAFIN to the Government. FERTIMEX would take
the foreign exchange risk for funds relent for invest-
ments, technical assistance and training, and the
Government for funds for imports.
Project
Description  : The proposed loan is a hybrid policy and investment loan
intended to support the first steps in the implementation
of the Government's and FERTIMEX's five-year program to
put the fertilizer subsector on a sound competitive basis
and eliminate Government subsidies through a series of
reforms of tte policy framework and the implementation of
supporting rationalization investments. Major policy
reforms involve dignificant price adjustments of inputs
and outputs, closure of uneconomic plants, liberalization
of distribution and imports, setting up a better orgacnza-
tional structure in the sector, financial restructuring of
FER¶IMEX and the carrying out of a program of economically
viable investments. These objectives would be achieved in
this first of a series of possible operations through Bank
financing of three components with a total loan amount of
US$265 million: (a) imports of fertilizers and fertilizer
raw materials (US$150 million) and other imports (US$50
million) in support of policy reforms; (b) rationalization
investments of the production and distribution
infrastructure (US$63.6 million) in support of policy
reforms; and (c) technical assistance to assist in the
reorganization of FERTIMEX;
j/ Called "Fertilizer Sector Loan" in the Legal Documents.



- Ii -
the withdrawal of FERTIMEX from retail distribution and
consignment operations; for expanding the range of
phosphate rocks which can *e used in FERTINEX's plants;
and training for upgrading FERTIMEX's planning
capabilities (US$1.4 million).
Benefits         The fertilizer sector adjustment program supported through
and Risks   :   this operation is expected to couisiderably improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the sector while
eliminating the sector's dependence on direct fiscal
transfers. Because of the magnitude of fertilizer price
increases required to eliminate fertilizer subsidies to
farmers and establish FERTIMEX's financial viability, the
most significant risk lies in a possible lack of
sufficient political will to implement some of the planned
price Increases which can be expected to be unpopular in
the farming community. Another risk is that, because of
difficulties with the trade unions, the plan-t closure
program may take longer than expected. However, these
risks are minimized by: (a) the Government pricing
policies being supported under the Agricultural Sector
Loan (ASL); (b) the small real increases required in
agricultural credit, which are in turn i  1 within the
projected rate of increase in financial savings ln the
economy; and (c) the pace of actual plant closures in 1986
and 1987, which indicates a strong Government commitment
to closing down uneconomic plants.



- lli -
ProMect Costs and Financing
Plan:
Foreivn          Local               Total
- -  -U US$ Millions Equivalent-       -
Imports of Fertllizer and
Raw Materials and other goods 200.0               -                 200.0
tatlonalisation
Investments                     64.1             80.9 2/            145.0
Technical Assistance              0.9              0.5                 1.4
Total                 265.0            80.9               346.4
Of wki.ch:
Government                       -              80.9                80.9  f
Bank                          265.0               -                265.0
8I Including duties on imported equipment (US$8.8 million) and indirect
taxation on equipment (off-the shelf items) and civil works (US$13.0
million).
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY/US$ Millions
1988   T989-   090   1991   1992    1993    1994
Annual                  10.0   109.5   107.5   17.0   12.6       6.9     1.5
Cumulative              10.0   119.5   227.0  244.0  256.6   263.5   265.0
The Import component will be disbursed in two tranches of US$100 million
each. Second tranche release is expected in April 1989.
Economic Rate of Return: 292 (on investments)
Staff
appr is81
Reiort:          This is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N7.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES FOR
A FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAPIN) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$265 million to help finance a Fertilizer
Sector Adjustment Loan (called 'Fertilizer Sector Loan' in the Legal
Documents). The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. FERTIMEX would take the
foreign exchange risk, except for imports of fertilizer and fertilizer raw
materials and other imports, for which the Government would take the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Report on Mexico (Mexico: After the Oil Boom:
Refashioning a Strategy fo; Growth. No. 6659-ME) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 23, 1987. It assesses the implications of the
rapid policy changes underway in Mexico, particularly from mid-1985 through
early 1987.
A. Backaround
3.       Mexico experienced three decades of high and stable growth from
the 19409 to the 1960s, based on an inward-ltiking growth strategy. By
1970. however, Mexico had largely exhausted the easy possibilities for
import substitution, and growth started to slow down. The Government
attempted to foster growth through an expansion of public sector expendi-
tures, and the encouragement of high-cost. capital-intensive import substi-
tution. This strategy failed to sustain sound economic growth, and in 1976
Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis. The exchange
rate was devalued, and an International Monetary Fund (IMF) stand-by
program implemented. New oil revenues led to a quick economic recovery in
1977, and greatly enlarged Mexico's access to foreign borrowing. Starting
in 1980. rapidly rising public expenditures, unmatched by gains in revenue,
generated huge increases in public sector deficits. Although inflation
rose rapidly, no significant pressure was felt to adjust, because of
burgeoning oil export earnings and abundant foreign financing. As imports
increased rapidly and non-oil exports declined, an appreciating real
exchange rate and lagging domestic interest rates encouraged capital
flight. However, the increasing precariousness of the balance of payments
was masked for a time by a frenzy of borrowing, which nearly doubled the
level of external debt in just two years from US$40 billion in 1979 to
US$78 billion in 198'



- 2 -
4.       The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures
reached the unprecedented level of 47.5? of GDP. while the deficit reached
nearly 182 of GDP. In February, the Bank of Mexico stopped supporting the
peso, which then experienced a 402 devaluation. But a large wage adjust.
ment, continuing slack in the oil market, and lax fiscal and monetary
policies largely nullified the intended benefits of the devaluation and
kept the balance of payments under strain. Inflation measured in consumer
prices nearly qaadrupled, from 29? in 1981 to 99? in 1982. Commercial
banks, which had granted Mexico substantial credit in previous years,
declined to commit new 'unds in the amounts required. These factors led to
a second devaluation of 352 in August 1982 and the suspension of amortiza-
tion payments on most of Mexico's external public debt. The nationaliza-
tion of the domestic private commercial banks in September 1982 and the
forced conversion of foreign currency accounts into pesos at a controlled
exchange rate, dealt additional blows to private sector confidence. The
flight of capital abroad contirued ax a high rate.
5.       With the support of an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) from the DMF,
the new administration of President Miguel de la Madrid undertook a
stabilization program beginning in late 1982 based on a large contraction
of domestic der-nd, mainly through fiscal, exchange rate, and monetary
policies. rhe peso was depreciated by an immediate 30? (in addition to the
64? cumulative depreciation carried out by the preceding government in
1982), and quantitative restrictions were extended to cover all imports.
Over the next twc years, public sector expenditure, excluding interest
payments, declined from a high of 39Z of GDP in 1982 to about 292 in 1984,
while revenues rose from about 30? to 33? of GDP. Public sector investment
was cut from an average of around 10 of GDP in the late 19709 to 7.5? in
1984. a contraction of over one-quarter in real terms. Between 1982 and
1984, the public sector borrowing requirement declined from 17.7? of GDP to
8.4?, while the inflation-adiusted fiscal deficit (excluding the inflation-
ary component of interest payments on domestic debt) shifted from a deficit
of 8.2? to 3.0? of GDP. Real wages fell 20-25?, while most public sector
prices were raised sha.,ply in real terms. And a massive foreign debt
restructuring was successfully negotiated in 1983 and again in 1984.
6.       The results of the 1983-84 stabilization effort were initially
impressive, In those two years, nominal imports fell cumulatively by 252,
non-oil export earnings (including the earnings of in-bond industries) rose
54?, and the balance of trade on goods and non-factor services showed
unprecedented surpluses averaging around 9? of GDP. Despite declining oil
prices, net foreign reserves increased from US$2.0 billion to US$6.5 bil-
lion between the end of 1982 and the end of 1984. And a strong turnaround
in economic activity from -5.3? in 1983 to 3.7? in 1984 led many to believe
a long-term recovery was undermay. However, ' large part of the adjustment
took the form of drastic cuts in imports and investment. In contrast,
long-term obstacles to growth were not confronted. The anti-export bias of
the trade regime was actually intensified with the introduction of addi-
tional import controls. Nor was the system of industrial incentives built
up over the proceeding three decades overhauled in ways which might have
enhanced Mexico's international competitiveness.



-3-
7.       The optimism generated by Mexico's initial adjustment success soon
started to fade. The declines in inflation became smaller and smaller,
until the trend began to reverse in 1985. As the Government prepared for
the mid-term Congressional elections of July 1985, monetary policy became
accommodating, the fiscal deficit rose well above program targets, and the
exchange rate appreciated rapidly in real terms. Optimism turned to dis-
enchantment, as it became clear that stabilization in the absence of more
fundamental structural reforms could not restore either sustainable
economic growth or stable prices.
8.       Most IMF program targets were missed in 1985.  The fiscal deficit
rose to 9.52 of GDP, inflation increased to 63.7?, non-oil export earnings
declined by over 102 from their 1984 levels, and most components of the
balance of payments deteriorated. Speculative pressures on the exchange
rate increased, and net foreign reserves declined by US$3.4 billion. The
crowding out of the private sector in credit markets became severe toward
the end of the year, as financial disintermediation accelerated and the
share of the public sector in total credit reached unprecedented levels, in
excess of 75S.
9.       Following the elections, a policy shift occurred.  Macro-stabili-
zation measures were complemented with the structural reforms needed to
deal with Mexico's long-term development problems. At the heart of these
reforms was the Government's desire to increase the efficiency of Mexican
industry through greater exposure to international competition, to reduce
the economy's dependence on oil exports and foreign borrowing, and to
create a new stimulus for growth. The first major reforms included remov-
ing import licensing requirements from 40? of merchandise imports, merging,
liquidating, or selling several hundred smaller state-owned companies, and
starting the rationalization of major parastatal operations in steel,
fertilizers, agriculture, petrochemicals, trucks and sugar.
10.      As for the macro-stabilization measures, the Government introduced
further spending cutbacks ln the public sector, and eliminated some 25,000
full-time positions. Sustained positive real interest rate levels were
restored, the controlled exchange rate was devalued by 20X, and a flexible
daily crawl Introduced which responded to developments in the balance of
payments, rather than, as before, to a pre-announced schedule. The new
exchange rate policy greatly narrowed the margin between the controlled and
free rates and, combined with tighter domestic credit, helped bring capital
flight to a virtual halt toward the end of 1985.
11.      This new adjustment cum structural reform effort received a set-
back in early 1986 with the collapse of oil prices. As a result of this,
Mexico lost revenues equivalent to 6.5? of GDP (i.e., over US$8 billion).
However, instead of closing the economy, as in 1983, the Government now
accelerated its structural reforms. To lend credibility to its commitment
for integration with the world economy, the country joined the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), announced a three-year program to
lower tariffs to a maximum of 30?, and promised to further reduce non-
tariff barriers (NTBs). Foreign investment procedures were simplified and
public finances strengthened through tax reform, price adjustments, and
spending cuts. The restructuring of the parastatals began in earnest, with



the closure of a major steel plant in Monterrey and the privatization,
liquidation, or transfer of some 600 smaller publicly-owned companies. The
Government restructured the finances of the state-owned agricultural
marketing enterprise, CONASUPO, and sharply reduced general food subsidies.
Fiscal performance in 1986 was in line with IMF targets, even though due to
an acceleration of inflation the public sector borrowing requirement rose
from 9.52 to 15.62 of GDP. In spite of the drastic reduction in oil
revenues, the inflation-adjusted fiscal deficit increased only from 4.02
GDP in 1985 to 6.22 of GDP in 1986. The real devaluation of the peso was
accelerated, real interest rates rose to exceptionally high levels, and a
squeeze on credit to the private sector helped turn around capital flows,
resulting in the repatriation of as much as US$3.0 billion during the
period from September 1986 to mid-1987. However, 1986 inflation reached
1062, and real GDP contracted by some 3.82.
12.      Mexico's program was supported by a financial package signed in
March 1987, which will provide up to US$10.7 billion in net flows,
including a US$5 billion parallel comercial bank new money facility
carrying a World Bank guarantee of US$750 million, US$1 billion in cofinan-
cing, a US$0.5 billion Growth Facility, and an IMF stand-by and contingent
oil facilities. Because oil prices have not dropped below an agreed
threshold during 1987 the oil facility was cancelled in December 1987.
Also, the Growth Facility has not been activated as of the end of February
1988. Some US$68.7 billion commercial bank debt was restructured, with new
maturities varying between 8 and 20 years, and grace periods between 4 and
9 years. US$1.8 billion in official bilateral debt was also rescheduled.
The current status of the multi-facility is shown in Annex 11.
B. Recent Economic J)evelonments
13.      Over the past five years, Mexico made important progress in
solving its fundamental macro imbalances. Progress was especially impres-
sive in the external accounts. as manufactures export earnings grew at over
20X annually, the trade surplus ranged between 7-10? of GDP and net
official reserves were raised from -US$2 billion at the end of 1982 to
roughly US$9 billion at the end of 1987, the highest level in Mexican
history. On the internal front, major parastatals, including FERTIMEX and
CONASUPO, are in various stages of restructuring, roughly 600 smaller firms
have been divested, price controls have been loosened, significant reforms
of the value-added and corporate income Saxes have been introduced, and
global food and credit subsidies have been sharply reduced.
14.      However, otber developments have not been as favorable.  After
decades of economic growth averaging over 62 annually, cumulative real
output contracted by about 22 during 1983-87, while real per capita
consumption declined by about 142, and real investment by 20? (40X since
1980). And not least among these disappointments was the failure to reduce
inflation. Having inherited a then-record rate of 1002 in 1982, the
current Gove;nment reduced this to under 602 by 1984.  However, since then,
inflation has risen to nearly 1602 in 1987. The unfavorable terms of trade
shock and the heavy burden of Mexico's external debt have had, in the short
run, negative effects on Mexico's overall economic performance.



15.      Behind inflation lies the large, seemingly intractable public
sector borrowing requirement (PSBR), estimated at 16.62 of GDP for 1987,
i.e., almost as large as in 1982 during the height of Mexico's balance of
payments crisis. However, this high PSBR masks a significant adjustment in
the inflation-adjusted fiscal deficit, which has fallen from 8.22 of GDP in
1982 to 3.02 in 1984, before rising under pressure of oil-export related
losses to 6.21 in 1986. It fell sharply once again to an estimated 1.12 of
GDP in 1987 (although. if transitory fiscal gains like the public sector's
abnormally low real borrowing costs and the upswing in oil export income
were removed from the calculation, the 1987 inflation-adjusted deficit
would have been closer to 5Z of GDP).
16.      Other fundamentals whose behavior worried financial markets in
1987 included the October collapse of world stock markets, which triggered
a 752 decline in the Mexican bolsa in just a month and a half; an accelera-
tion in the size and frequency of wage adjustments since 1986, which,
combined with growing labor unrest and electoral campaign pledges, had
convinced many economic agents that wage policy could become a pro-infla-
tionary factor for the first time since 1981; increasing distortions in
relative prices, due to seriously delayed adjustments of controlled prices
in the public sector and agriculture; declining real interest rates; and a
small, but worrisome appreciation of the real exchange rate, albeit from a
very favorable starting level at the end of 1986.
17.      In this climate of growing malaise about the economic fundamen-
tals, any major unexpected economic developments were almost certain to be
destabilizing. One such development--the sharp decline in world stock
market values in October--was previously mentioned. A second, which occur-
red at roughly the same time, was a one-time opportunity for private
companies to buy up their external debt at discounts of 502 or more, as
part of a debt rescheduling agreement signed with foreign commercial banks.
A huge temporary additional demand for foreign exchange put strong pressure
on the free exchange rate in October and in the first half of November.
Initially, the Central Bank tried to dampen this pressure by selling
foreign reserves. But after losing over US$1 billion in one month, the
monetary authority withdrew from the market on November 19, triggering a
one-day depreciation of the free exchange rate of nearly 602. Panic
buying, demands by labor for an emergency wage increase of 462, and
continued speculative attacks on both the free and controlled exchange
rates intensified the crisis, leading eventually to wholesale revisions of
the 1988 budget and macroeconomic program.
18.      On December 14, the Government announced:
(i) a 222 one-step depreciation of the controlled exchange rate from
hex$1,8031US$l to Mex$2,200IUS$l, accompanied by;
(ii) a reduction in the maximum import tariff rate from 452 to 20Z.
This was followed the next day by the announcement of an Economic Solidarity
Pact signed by representatives of labor, farming, industry, and the
Government, which contained additional features, namely:



-6-
(iii)  an immediate increase of all wages by 152, with a -'cond
increase in the minimum wage of 202 granted on January 1, 1988.
Contractual wages come up for their annual negotiations in large
numbers during this period, but efforts will be made to limit
floor adjustments to the 202 increase granted for the minimum
wage. With that allowance, all wages are then to be frozen
until March 1, 1988, at which time they are to be adjusted
monthly in line with the projected average price changes in an
index of basic goods and services. Monthly wage adjustments
would continue, so long as inflation remained above a 22 monthly
rate. In the event the forward-looking monthly adjustments of
basic goods prices were to lag observed inflation by more than 5
percentage points cumulatively, a catch-up increase for the full
differential would be granted to wage earners.
(iv)  immediate increases of 17-85Z in the prices of key public goods
and services, after which public prices are to be frozen until
March 1, 1988, and then adjusted in line with wages:
(v) corrective price increases for basic consumer goods and guaran-
teed farm prices before the end of 1987, followed by a 2-month
freeze, and then by subsequent price adjustments in line with
wages and public goods. Guaranteed farm producer prices for
1988 are to be maintained at 1987 levels in real terms.
Increased public sector imports of basic goods are to be used to
combat shortages, while sanctions for hoarders and price control
violators have been promised;
(vi) an increase of the primary fiscal surplus by 2.92 of GDP in 1988
to a level of 8.3Z of GDP, though approximately equal increases
in revenues and reductions in non-interest public spending.
(vii) a program of accelerated divestment of state-owned companies, of
which 52 new companies have already been placed for sale,
including a copper company valued at roughly US$1 billion;
(viii) a ceiling on domestic banking credit to the private sector out-
standing by lending institution equal to 902 of the average
nominal balance of December 1987 for January and 852 of the
December nominal balance for February; and
(ix) sharp increases in treasury bill and other short-term nominal
interest rates from 82 monthly in October to over 132 in January
1988.
19.      The sequencing of the Mexican stabilization program can be split into
two periods. The first period, lasting until the end of February 1988, is
transitional, during which the once-and-for-all impact of relative price
corrections would be felt. The second period would start in March 1988, and,
if all goes well, last some 9-10 months. Major nominal prices (wages, basic
goods, and public prices) would follow a concerted declining pathway geared
toward reducing inflation, while preserving a rebalanced and essentially fixed
structure of relative prices. While the Government is committed to reducing



-7-
consumer price controls in the long run, during this period it will have to
use the instruments of consumer price controls selectively.
20.      Following the adjustment of wages, public tariffs and prices, and the
exchange rate in December, the Government predicted that inflation would
accelerate significantly in January (indeed, it subsequently reached 18.2Z at
the producer level, 15.5Z at the consumer level), to be followed by a marked
deceleration in February to around 7-8?. The transitional phase is designed
to correct major disequilibria in relative prices (real wages, real public
utility and basic commodity prices, and the real exchange rate), and, then, to
maintain them from March 1988 onwards through forward-looking adjustment of
the major nominal variables.
21.      Assuming the behavior of inflation during February confirms approxi-
mately to Governmental expectations, then the subsequent adjustment of wages,
public and basic prices, and the exchange rate uniformly, and in a declining
monthly pattern, will provide a strong nominal anchor which, with support from
the strong monetary, fiscal, and import adjustments the Government has
committed to, can gradually break the inertial components of inflation.
22.      The Economic Solidarity Pact reflects a carefully thought out stabi-
lization strategy which draws upon the lessons learned from experience in
other countries, adapting them to Mexican circumstances. It quite rightly
elevates the goals of attacking high inflation and correcting severely distor-
ted relative prices to priority objectives, needed to consolidate the struc-
tural reforms and continue an export-led growth strategy. This effort will be
reinforced by accelerated public enterprise reforms, and accelerated import
liberalization which goes well beyond the earlier commitments the Government
undertook in connection with TPL I and II.
23.      Needless to say, policy fine-tuning is extremely difficult at high
rates of inflation with volatile private sector expectations. The chances of
unintended, but critical, policy errors are, correspondingly, high. Ulti-
mately, a successful stabilization effort will largely depend on whether
policymakers demonstrate a strong preference to err on the side of caution.
If the impact of the program on economic activity were immediately and
strongly adverse, steady, calm support for continuing the basic lines of the
Pact would be crucial. Corrective policies could be adopted only gradually,
so as not to risk undermining the credibility of the original commitment to
the Pact, while avoiding over-reaction.
C. Development Prospects
24.      Provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its current stabi-
lization program, accompanied by the major structural adjustment policies
already described and a reasonably favorable international environment, the
fundamentals for future recovery look promising. First, Mexico has a rich
natural and human resource base and close proximity to the world's largest
market. Secondly, the rationalization of the trade regime of the last two
years and the recent policy announcements about its future direction have
created a set of incentives favoring international competition. Thirdly, the
drastic fall in the terms of trade is beginning to turn around now that world
oil and other commodity prices significant for Mexico's exports have partially



- 8 -
recovered. This improvement in the terms of trade should have significant
salutary effects on fiscal, financial, and balance of payments performance, as
well as on growth, investment, and employment. Fourthly, the over 40S decline
in real wages since 1981 has made Mexican unit labor costs highly competitive
internationally, well below those of Southeast Asia. Therefore, under
moderately favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's economic
growth could reach 4-52 a year in the early 1990s.
25.      Progress in the areas of poverty alleviation and social sector
development has slowed in the wake of the 1982 crisis. As the economy
gradually begins to recover, it is possible to foresee a significant increase
in the emphasis on social sector issues in Mexico. Given the continued strin-
gency of public budgetary resources, this increased emphasis will depend
heavily upon better cost-recovery and improved efficiency in the targeting and
delivery of social services.
26.      Historically, ecological and natural resource management issues have
rauked low on the list of policy priorities. However, in recent months,
pollution control, soil erosion, reforestation, and other issues in Mexico's
management of its ecology and natural resources have received increasing
Governmental and Bank attention.
D. External Debt and Creditworthiness
27.      Mexico's gross external public and private debt increased by nearly
US$17 billion during 1983-87, but net debt by only about US$6 billion, taking
into account the xuaghly US$11 billion improvement in net official reserves
over that period. The debt service ratio fell from 61? in 1982 to 5O0 in
1987. At the end of that year, the Bank's share of Mexico's long-term debt
was 7.1S, and its share of Mexico's long-term debt service was 7.4?. The
Bank's exposure in Mexi1co was 8.12 of its total portfolio. With its expanded
assistance program in Mexico, this latter ratio is expected to rise somewhat
by the end of this decade, but will remain below 10? of the Bank's total port-
folio. In the expectation that sound economic policies continue, and that the
external environment remains favorable for the execution of these policies,
Mexico is considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
28.      Background. Mexico is a large consumer and producer of fertilizers,
ranking 14th among consuming countries in the world and among the 20 largest
producing countries. Annual consumption, which in 1987 amounted to 4.7 mil-
lion tons of products (1.88 million tons of nutrients) has been growing on
average by 6? per year since 1975. With an average nutrient use of 60 kg per
ha of total agricultural area, intensity of fertilizer use in Mexico compares
with that of Colombia, Indonesia, Turkey and Portugal, but still remains
significantly below levels used in countries such as Italy, Greece, and Israel
(above 159 kilos). The potential for continued increase in fertilizer use is
still significant. With a total production of about 1.84 million tons of
nutrient in 1987, Mexico was for the first time practically self-sufficient in
fertilizer, with imports accounting for the balance (48,000 tons of nutrients
in 1987, versus 220,000 tons in 1986).



29.      With the exception of small quantities of ammonium sulphate and
specialty fertilizers, all fertilizer production in Mexico is in the public
sector. Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), the National Mexican Petroleum Company
produces all the ammonia and FERTIMEX produces all other fertilizer interme-
diates and all finished solid fertilizers. FERTIMEX is also the primary
agency responsible for fertilizer marketing and distribution in Mexico.
A. Fertilizer Use in Mexican Airiculture
30.      Mexican agriculture is characterized by a great diversity of
climatic, ecological and topographical conditions and production activities
and systems. Irrigated land, concentrated in the arid north and north-west
regions, represents 25Z of total cultivated areas (about 21 million hectares)
but probably accounts for as much as half of total production value and ferti-
lizer use. The six major grain and legume crops (maize, beans, sorghum,
wheat, rice and soybeans) are grown on about 70? of total irrigated land, the
balance being dedicated to cotton and fruit and vegetables for export. Rain-
fed land, mostly located in the center and southern regions, accounts for 75Z
of total cropland but for only half of total agricultural production value and
fertilizer use. Between 802 and 90? of this land is dedicated to the cultiva-
tion of maize, beans and sorghum. The degree of technification in rainfed
areas varies widely but is on average significantly below that in irrigated
areas; yields are substantially lower, reflecting lower water availability and
higher risks. The majority of farms in rainfed areas are subsistence family
farms using no or very little modern inputs.
31.      Intensity of fertilizer use thus varies considerably.  While applica-
tions average 130 kilos of nutrients per hectare of total fertilized cropland.
this average may be as low as 30 kg in the south. The regional distribution
of fertilizer sales is shown on the attached Map. While 80S of irrigated land
is fertilized. only half of rainfed land is. The potential for increased use
is still high in rainfed areas where marginal output response to higher doses
is very high and still far out-weighs associated costs. In irrigated areas,
while there is still scope for some expansion in fertilized areas, farmers
have reached optimum applications under the current input and output pricing
environment (Annex VII). Countrywide, a joint study by FERTIMEX and the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARK) recently estimated
that, in the absence of credit constraints, on the basis of agronomic require-
ments and just to satisfy domestic consumption of basic grains, total ferti-
lizer use could still continue to grow by 9Z-10? per year during the next five
years (as mentioned above, ave=age growth in nutrient consumption has been of
about 6? per year between 1975 and 1987).
32.      Although fertilizer demand overall may be somewhat constrained by
supply, fertilizer does appear to be widely available, notwithstanding
occasional reports of late deliveries (particularly in rainfed areas). In
terms of fertilizer types, however, use has largely been determined by what is
available in m.TIMEX's distribution system.  In particular, consumption is
characterized by an abnormally high proportion of low concentration fertilizer
(ammonium sulfat.e, SSP). In addition to questions raised as to their agrono-
mic justification (e.g. their high sulfur content), their widespread use
entails much higher transportation and distribution costs than for other types
of fertilizer (para. 34).



- 10 -
S. Fertilizer Production and Distribution
33.      For the past 15 years, the major objective of FERTIMEX has been to
implment the Government policy of increasing domestic use and production of
fertilizer, and to deliver it to farmers at 'affordable' (i.e. subsidized)
prices. The main focus of FERTIMEX has accordingly been to increase capacity
and production to meet increased demand and substitute for imports and,
through control over distribution, to ensure that fertilizer is delivered to
farmers at the price established by the Government (which in 1986 averaged
about half of import parity).
34.      At the end of 1985, FERTIMEX total production capacity consisted of
56 plants (of which 28 were finished product plants and 28 intermediate
plants) in 12 different locations throughout the country, producing nitrogen
as well as phosphate and complex fertilizers and their intermediates (except
ammonia which is produced by PEMEX). Total capacity (including the recently
completed Lazaro Cardenas Complex) amounted to 6.0 million tons of finished
products (2.4 million tons of nutrients) and 5.4 million tons of intermediates
(Annex V, Table 1). Fifteen of the finished product plants and 14 of the
associated intermediate plants started operating prior to 1970. These older
plants are not economically viable at today's depressed international prices
and unlikely to become viable even at the higher international prices
projected for the period 1990-95. They should therefore be phased-out (para.
40 and Annex V, Tables 1 and 2). Of total capacity existing or under
construction at the end of 1985, the capacity rated as unviable for fertilizer
production represented 282 of total product capacity (1.7 million tons), and
11? of total intermediate capa.city (0.6 million tons). Most of the unviable
plants were producing low concentration fertilizer (ammonium sulfate, single
superphosphate). FERTIMEX ha3 started implementing a plant closure program,
closing up permanently 0.8 million tons of finished product capacity and 0.4
million tons of intermediate capacity during 1986 and 1987. The viability of
a further 0.5 million tons of finished products and 1.1 million tons of inter-
mediate capacity will depend on whether alternative markets or input sources
can be found by 1989 (para. 41). While many of the remaining plants would
also show losses in 1987 if all inputs and output were priced at current
international levels (which are severely depressed), with appropriate revamp-
ing and efficient operation they would become economically viable once inter-
national prices recover to currently projected levels. Finally, there are
reasonably good prospects for economic replacement of unviable nitrogen capa-
city with world-scale, high concentration fertilizer plants.
35.      During the past 15 years, FERTIMEX'S distribution objectives have
been to control deliveries of fertilizer to farmers as close as possible to
the farmgate in order to ensure availability at the price specified by the
Government. These objectives have been reached to the extent that fertilizer
is widely available in the countryside, even though deliveries may be untimely
and fertilizer types are not always those required (para. 32). The distribu-
tion system put in place however is costly for several reasons: first, the



desire to control selling prices has led to excessive reliance on consignment
sales,1' which in 1986 accounted for about 40% of total sales (Annex V,
Table 3). Such a system entails excessive costs in inventory control, losses
and product disappearance which are difficult to measure and prevent, and high
financial and storage costs due to the lack of incentives for consignment
agents to minimize storage times and volumes. Second, FERTIMEX is under the
obligation to deliver or ensure deliveries to 2,600 sales points, which
requires difficult logistical controls and high transport costs for a large
number of small shipments from the plants. These problems are compounded by
the atomized warehousing infrastructure which, although totalling close to 4.0
million tons of capacity in 1985 (10 months of sales), is dispersed among over
1,000 warehouses most of which with less than 3,000 tons of capacity each
(Annex V, Table 4). Third, storage and transport costs are high because
three-fourths of fertilizer shipped from the plants is bagged and all
fertilizer is stored in bags; finally, there is excessive reliance on land
transportation, in particular on high cost truck transport accounting for 50%
of all plant shipments.
36.      In 1986, fertilizer distribution was managed by FERTIMEX at a cost of
about US$45Iton, of which about US$2O/ton represented transport costs from
plants or ports to warehouses. Distribution costs could be significantly
lowered through: (i) restructuring of production facilities (construction of
new, high nutrient content fertilizer plants closer to markets and closure of
poorly located, uneconomic, low nutrient content fertilizer plants); (ii)
elimination of the consignment system; (iii) rationalization of warehousing
and handling facilities permitting fewer larger movements and storage in bulk
and bulk blending; (iv) more extensive use of cheaper coastal shipment; (v)
decentralization and liberalization of distribution; and (vi) liberalization
of imports. FERTIMEX has (i) started restructuring its production facilities
(para. 41); (ii) developed investment proposals to rationalize its distribu-
tion infrastructure (paras.' 61-63 and Annex VI); (iii) significantly reduced
consignment sales (Annex V, Table 3); and (iv) started to decentralize its
distribution activities (para. 49). While these efforts are steps in the
right direction, full implementation supported under the proposed loan
requires supportive pricing and distribution policies and adequate investment
funding.
C. Policy Environment
37.      FIRTDMEX operates -in an environment of Government policies and regu-
lations which are not conducive to optimum production, financial and economic
efficiency. The following are major constraints to improving efficiency in
the sectort
(a) Lack of Competition. FERTIMEX is de facto a production and, for all
practical purposes, a distribution monopoly, totally protected from
competing market forces. Although FERTIMEX is not a monopoly by law,
1 When selling on consignment, FERTIMEX remains the owner of the
inventories until the product has been sold and paid for. FERTIMEX
thus bears all financial costs and takes the risks of unsold, lost,
stolen and spoiled inventories. The consignatory receives fixed fees
for storage and handling costs and a commission on sales.



- 12 -
potential competitors (private importers and domestic producers) have
shown little interest in the sector since the prevailing pricing
policies of the Government neither make fertilizer imports nor
irveatment in the sector profitable:
(b) Pricing System. There is only one price for fertilizers set by the
Government in Mexico, i.e. the price paid by farmers or distributors
at the nearest railway station. This price is determined by the
government's agricultural policy and is unrelated to FERTIMEX'S
production and distribution costs or to international prices. Farm-
gate prices, which were on average in 1986 about half of import
parity (Annex VII, Table 1), do not cover FERTIMEX's total costs, and
budgetary transfers are made to cover FERTIMEX's losses. In 1986,
revenues from sales covered 542 of production, distribution and
administration costs or 44? of total costs including interest charges
on FERTIMEX's very large medium and long term debt outstanding by the
end of 1986. Internal cash generation only provided 401 of total
cash needs. Total budgetary transfers to FERTIMEX in 1986 amounted
to US$386 million.2/ In addition FERTIMEX received about US$130
million in indirect subsidies from PEMEX in the form of low ammonia
prices 3/ (ammonia is the major raw material in the manufacturing of
nitrogen fertilizers). Given projected growth in fertilizer demand
and future investment requirements, cumulative federal budget
transfers to FERTIMEX required during the period 1986-90 are expected
to reach over US$2.5 billion if present financing and pricing
policies continue. It is difficult to determine to what extent
budget transfers tend to finance FERTIMEX inefficiency rather than
help meet the Government's socioeconomic objectives for the agricul-
tural sector. The monopolistic situation and the lack of transpa-
rency of direct and indirect subsidies provide no incentives for cost
control and economic efficiency in FERTIMEX's activities. These
distortions are significant since, in 1986, for every ton of ferti-
lizer sold, FERTIMEX received a total of US$71 in subsidies of which
JS$43 were direct (including subsidies to cover operating costs and
interests on long-term debt), and US$28 were indirect operating
subsidies. This compares with an average domestic selling price of
US$80 per ton (retail, bagged) and to the estimated import parity
equivalent of about US$130 per tor.. Pricing policies therefore must
be adjusted and alternative financing sources sought (i) to reduce
and eventually to eliminate the burden of subsidies for the sector on
Government finances without prejudice to efficient use of required
levels of fertilizer by the agricultural sector, and (ii) to ensure a
relative pricing structure conducive to efficiency and permitting
proper measurement of cost competitiveness of FERTIMEX
(paras. 43-45).
21 Including transfers to cover operating costs including interests on
debt (about US$198 million of which US$61 for interests), debt
amortization payments (about US$124 million) and investments (US$64
million) (Annex IX).
3/ Up to mid-1987, the price was less than US$30, i.e., a third of its
export value.



- 13 -
(c) Ammonia Production. Throughout the industry outside of Mexico,
fertilizer companies maximize efficiency of nitrogenous fertilizer
production by integrating ammonia production with urea or other down-
stream production facilities. Not so in Mexico, where ammonia
production is the responsibility of PEMEX; its ammonia plants are
sometimes located several kilometers away from FERTIMEX's urea and
nitrogenous downstream facilities and all are operated as completely
separate concerns. Cost inefficiencies associated with lack of inte-
gration and sub-optimal plant locations are high. During 'the 3-year
period 1984-86, urea production losses due to planned or unplanned
stops in the ammonia plants amounted to 15Z to 251 of capacity (or
over 250,000 tons of urea lost in 1986). In addition, the separate
planning of ammonia and urea plants by PEMEX and FERTIMEX carries
substantial penalties in part because some infrastructure and general
services are duplicated on different sites, but mostly because
neither of the two entities has the information and incentives to
base plant location decisions on proper optimal plant location
studies. Because of prevailing union agreements and existing legis-
lation, it is impossible at this stage to integrate ammonia and
fertilizer production. Better coordination mechanisms, however, can
minimize the penalties for lack of integration (para. 48).
(d) FERTIMEX is Heavily Indebted. As of the end of December 1987,
FERTIMEX was indebted to the extent of US$1,032 million of which
about US4896 million of medium- and long-term debt. The equivalent
of US$855 million of FERTIMEX's debt was denominated in various
foreign currencies. Even with the proposed price changes and planned
shut down of unviable operations and rationalization of its opera-
tions, FERTIMEX would remain unable financially to carry the load of
servic#ng the existing debt, except for a small portion (para. 49).
Total debt service (medium- and long-term) in 1986 amounted to US$185
million, of which US$61 million was interest expense and US$124 mil-
lion was amortization payments. Debt service payments are guaranteed
by the Government and have been paid mostly out of the national
budget.
(e) FERTIMEX's Management Autonomy, Organization and Business
Orientation. FERTIMEX Board of Directors consists mostly of
ministers or their representatives and is therefore changed
completely every six years by every new administration. The Chief
Executive Officer of FERTIMEX, appointed by the President of Mexico,
and mos' key managers also change with a new administration, causing
lack of continuity in company policies (especially commercial/distri-
bution policies). Government intervention in management of the
company is very heavy: salary levels and structure for managers are
imposed by Government regulations governing all public sector
entities and there is no system of additional financial rewards
linked to good performance. Due to its high dependence on budgetary
funding, FERTIMEX has been subject to frequent Government inter-
ference by the Ministry of Mining, Energy and Parastatal Industry
(SEMIP) and the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting (SPP); in
addition, Mexican budgetary regulations require that operating as
well as investment budgets be approved by Congress and that, for



- 14 -
companies dependent on Government funding for their operations,
deviations from established cost categories be cleared with the
Government. Thus, FERTIMEX operates more as a Government department
under SEMIP than as a commercial enterprise. This web of
bureaucratic controls and regulations does not favor a business-like
approach to management, organization and operation. Despite recent
efforts, management remains heavily centralized for an operation of
FERTIMEX's complexity, with a headquarters staff of over 3,500
employees out of total personnel of 13,000. Cost control has not
been a priority until recently, as reflected in the company's
deficient cost accounting system (para. 49).
38.      A number of steps have already been taken by the Government to
enhance financial and managerial autonomy of public enterprises, and ensure
better continuity. Medium term contracts (OConvenios') between the Government
and state enterprises have been signed with several enterprises (including
CONASUPO, AZUCAR SA, SIDERMEX and the State Railways Company), which state:
(i) company objectives; (ii) commitments from the enterprise to meet perfor-
mance targets and carry out an investment program (generally over a 5 year
period) focusing on efficiency improvements; and (iii) Government commitments
concerning financial restructuring and pricing policies. As implementation of
these contracts will involve the next administration, they are intended to
ensure continuity and define the respective goals and responsibilities of the
Government and the enterprises.  Such a contract for FEI1Ex is being
finalized (para. 40).
39.      Another very important step has been the enactment of the new Federal
Law on parastatal agencies of May 14, 1986 (whose regulations, however, are
still being worked-out). The new law providez for greater management autonomy
for state enterprises by reinforcing the role of their Boards in both super-
visory and policy making functions (including approval of salaries at all
levels), concentrating Government interventions through these Boards, while at
the same time increasing management accountability. However, for companies
such as FERTIMEX, which are heavily dependent on budget transfers for their
operations, the increased autonomy afforded by the new law will remain largely
theoretical until changes in the fertilizer pricing system, financial restruc-
turing of the company and improvements in its operations designed to provide
ERTIMEX with financial autonomy, will in fact allow the company to take full
advantage of the benefits provided by the law.
PART III - THE PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
40.      As indicated in Parts I and It, the proposed Fertilizer Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL) would be one important element in the ongoing economy-
wide basic general adjustment process that Mexico is undertaking. Major
objectives of the proposed loan would be to support the first steps of a five
year program of reforms to establish the sector on a sound competitive basis
by:



- 15 -
-- closing down uneconomic plants, reducing or eliminating production
inefficiencies, and coordinating better the planning end operation of
ammonia and urea plantss
--   rationalizing the distribution system and making it more efficient;
reducing FERTIMIEX's participation in distribution and making ferti-
lizer distribution attractive to the private sector; and investing in
the infrastructure necessary to reduce overall distribution costs
while permitting FERTIMEX's operation at the wholesale level only;
--   introducing a pricing system for fertilizer and fertilizer raw
materials that permits FERTIMEX to gradually achieve financial self-
sufficiency; progressively eliminates budgetary transfers and elimi-
nates raw material subsidies;
--   re-.tructuring the financial position of FERTIMEX by converting into
equity most of its long-term debt;
__ improving the management and organization of FERTIMEX by placing it
in a pricing environment and financial position which allow it to
take full advantage of the increased autonomy afforded by the new
parastatals law; by further decentralizing the decision-making
process within the company and providing the basis for a reorganiza-
tion; and
-- carrying out an investment program to achieve an optimum fertilizer
industry structure by the mid-1990s.
To achieve the above objectives, the Government and FERTIMEX have formulated a
five-year program of policy reforms and of supporting investments. The policy
measures and their calendar for implementation are incorporated in the
Fertilizer Policy Statement dated February 25, 1988 presented in Annex III;
actions to be taken are summarized in the Policy Matrix in Annex IV.
FERTIMEX's Investment Program is further discussed in Section B of this
chapter and summarized in Annex VI. The Government and FERTIMEX have detailed
the necessary steps to achieve the program's objectives in a contract
('Convenio"). A satisfactory draft contract was reviewed at negotiations:
signature of a satisfactory contract is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Implementation of the program of reforms and restructuring would be a
condition of second loan tranche release (para. 78).
A. Policy Measures
(a)  Physical RestructurinR of Production Facilities
41.      During 1986 and 1987, FERTIMEX already closed down a total of 12
plants on five production sites with a total capacity of 788,000 tons of
finished products and 429,500 tons of intermediates (Annex V, Table 2). In
the Sector Policy Statement (Annex III, para. 2.1), the Government proposes a
substantial plant closure program involving the further closure of 938,000
million tons of finished product capacity and 178,000 million tons of
associated intermediate product capacity. At negotiations, as irances were
obtained that this calacity would be closed down during 1988 and 1989,



- 16 -
according to a detailed schedule that has been agreed upon ind will be
included in the Convenio (para. 40). Implementation of the 1988 plant closure
proaram would be a condition of second tranche release. Assurances were also
obtained that an ammonium sulfate plant in Coatzacoalcos would be closed in
1989 unless alternative sources of sulfuric acid can be found (Annex V, Note
to Table 2). Also, the large sulfuric acid capaclty, which will become
surplus when the downstream ammonium sulfate plants of Guadalajara and
Queretaro are closed in 1989 as expected, needs to be closed unless
alternative industrial markets for the sulfuric acid can be found. At
negotiations. assurances were obtained that, if financially viable alternative
markets have not been secured by June 1989, FERTIMEX will close down these
sulfuric acid plants within a year.
(b) Fertilizer Distribution
42.      The Government has decided that, over the medium term, FERTIMEX would
reduce its present operation and/or supervision of about 2,600 sales outlets,
to no more than 120 wholesale warehouses, except in a limited number of
'marginal* areas where there is a serious risk of speculation or shortages due
to market imperfections, isolation, transport bottlenecks and lack of
competition among distributors (Annex III, para. 3.3). With respect to the
network of 120 warehouses, FERTIMEX has already identified 57 existing large
warehouses to be part of this wholesale network (Annex V, Table 5) and has
prepared an investment program to adjust its distribution infrastructure
accordingly (paras. 62-63). Twelve of the existing warehouses belong to
private agents, who will continue to own and operate them. With respect to
withdrawal from retail operations, a plan of withdrawal will be prepared as
part of the distribution study (para. 41). In addition, FERTIMEX has reduced
consignment sales from almost 70X in 1982 to less than 40X of total sales in
1987. Also, the consignment system will be eliminated over a period of five
years. Prices beyond the 120 warehouses will not be regulated but determined
by market forces, except in the "marginal" areas referred to above where
FERTIMEX would act as a regulator. In these areas, FERTIMEX, in competition
with other distributors, will charge retailing costs on top of the official
ex-FERTIMEX price (subsuquently referred to as "List Frice"). FERTIMEX will
carry out a study under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and with
the assistance of qualified consultants financed under the loan (para. 64) to
determine the detailed timing and mechanisms for these changes. Summary terms
of reference were agreed upon at negotiations (Annex X). The study will
define a detailed plan of action by region, fort (a) withdrawal from retail
distribution; (b) elimination of consignment sales; (c) definition of a list
of retail outlets to be maintained in 'marginal' areas, with their location
and expected throughput, and criteria used in their selection and possible
subsequent elimination. The study wou'd proceed in two phases: in a short
first phase, to be completed no later than by the end of June 1988, the study
would: (a) identify the regions where immediate withdrawal from retail and
consignment operations can begin no later than September 30, 1988;
(b) establish a calendar for in-depth regional studies to determine the areas
in which FERTI=EX would maintain a minimum presence at the retail level and
the most appropriate modalities of withdrawal in other areas; and (c) design a
system of incentives tc motivate distribution agents to take charge of
distribution and storage at the retail level. In parallel with FERTIMEX's
withdrawing from the areas referred to in (a) above, studies of the other



- 17 -
areas will proceed in a second phase which would be completed no later than by
the end of December 1988.  implementation of the resulting recommendations for
individual regions would start as soon as the relevant part of each study has
been completed. Implementation in all regions would be completed by the end
of 1992. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the study and the
implementation of its recommendations would Proceed as outlined and acco;dina
to the calendar detailed above. In addition, the following events would be
conditions of second tranche release: (a) that the study has been completed
and that its recommendations are satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) that actual
withdrawal from retail and consignment operations has occurred, equivalent to
at least 102 of total 1987 sales of solid fertilizer of FERTIMEX (in tons of
products).
(c) Fertilizer and Fertilizer Inputs Pricing Policy
43.      According to the Fertilizer Policy Statement kA!'nex III, para. 3.2),
and the agreements reached at negotiations, the Government is committed to
establish fertilizer pricing on the following basis:
(i) Prices of fertilizer will be progressively increased to reach
import parity or financial independence of FERTIMEX within five
years, whichever comes first. Consistent with the decision to
limit FERTIMEX distribution activities to no more than 120
warehouses (para. 36), uniform fertilizer list-prices will in
the future be quoted at the level of the 120 wholesale
warehouses instead of 2,600 ex-railroad outlets as at present;
Cii) Financial independence means that list-prices (para. 42) will be
sufficient to cover production costs (inclusive of depreciation
of existing and new facilities); distribution and marketing
costs (also inclusive of depreciation of distribution
facilities); administrative overheads; financial charges
(interests) on short and medium and long-term debt (after debt
restructuring) (para. 50); and an 8Z return on equity invested
in all new projects;
(iii) FERTIMEX would continue to pay international equivalent prices
for phosphate rock and sulfur, two of the three major raw
materials. The price paid for PEMEX's ammonia would be
increased annually over five years and would reach 80Z of the
equivalent export price by the end of the period;
(iv) imports are and will remain free of restrictions and tariffs
(para. 47), thus enabling international prices to set the
absolute upper limit or *ceiling' on domestic output prices. If
PERTIMEX were to charge prices higher than international parity,
competitive pressure from imports would bring FERTIMEX prices
down to the international level;
(v) prices below the level of FERTIMEX's 120 wholesale warehouses
will be determined by market forces; FERTIMEX retaining a retail
function in a limited number of "marginal' areas (para. 41);



- 18 -
(vi) FERTIMEX's list prices will be set at least twice a year, at the
same time as crop guarantee prices (MarchlApril and Octoberl
November), prior to the start of the agricultural season; and
(vii) consistent with the above principles, the weighted average of
list prices would be increased by 55Z in real terms over the
end-December 1987 US$ equivalent over five years.
44.      The proposed changes in ammonia pricing, when completed, would
eliminate all indirect subsidies from PEMEX to FERTIMEX and will provide both
PEMEX and FERTIMEX with the necessary incentives to plan, maintain and operate
their plants efficiently (para. 37(c)). In 1992, FERTIMEX would pay a price
for ammonia in line with the published export price (FOB Coatzacoalcos or FOB
US Gulf minus US$10), less a 20? discount to: (i) compensate FERTIMEX for
higher costs resulting from the lack of integration between ammonia and
fertilizer (particularly urea) production in Mexico (in line with price
discounts given by PEMEX to basic petrochemical users); and (ii) because long-
term high-volume users normally negotiate significant discounts over published
prices. Based on a projected export price of ammonia of US$175 per ton (FOB
Coatzacoalcos) in 1992, the price to be charged to FERTIMEX would be US$140.
This price would cover all ammonia production costs (with natural gas valued
at its opportunity cost), plus a capital recovery factor of 82 on ammonia
plant investments. 7'otal savings from integration are estimated at about
US$85 million in 1992 (US$37 per ton of ammonia or about US$20 per ton of
ammonia-based finished products), Iepresenting about lOZ of total estimated
production costs of FERTIMEX in 1992.  The international competitive position
of FERTIMEX should therefore not be penalized by the current legal obstacles
to integration. On the other hand, the proposed pricing arrangements would
entirely eliminate the current indirect subsidy from PEMEX to FERTIMEX (about
US$130 million in 1986) derived from the difference between ammonia production
costs and the much lower prices paid by FERTIMEX which would increase to
US$240 million in 1992 if current ammonia pricing criteria were maintained.
The domestic price of natural gas (the feedstock in ammonia production) as of
the end of December 1987 (US$2.3 per million BTUs) was in line with the high
sulfur fuel oil equivalent, its estimated opportunity cost. While interna-
tional fuel oil prices have increased significantly since the beginning of
1987, they are not expected to change significantly between 1988 and 1992.
The Government has already started increasing ammonia prlces paid by FERTIMEX
from the equivalent US$27 per ton in mid-1987 to US$45 as of December 16,
1987, which is equivalent to 45? of the export price. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the price paid by FERTIMEX to PEMEX would be no
less than 48? of the export price by the end of March 1989, 54? by the end of
1989, 632 by the end of 1990, 71? by the end of 1991 and 80? by the end of
1992. It would be a condition of second tranche release that ammonia prices
have reached at least the equivalent of 48? of the export price. With respect
to other inputs, the price of sulfur paid by FERTIDEX to domestic producers,
wvh'h as of December 1987 was in line with export parity, is one of the public
prices which will be set during 1988 in accordance with the pricing principles
under the Economic Solidarity Pact (para. 18). It would be a condition of
second tranche release that sulfur prices are in line with their export price
(FOB Coatzacoalcos) adjusted for differences in quality.
45.      Based on these raw materials costing principles, for FERTIHEX to
achieve financial self-sufficiency over five years would require fertilizer
list prices to increase by about 120? in real Mexican Peso terms between



- 19 -
September 1987 and end 1992, based on current Bank price projections for major
raw materials. On December 16, 1987, the Government increased fertilizer
prices, by about 39Z in real terms relative to their September levels. As
part of the Economic Solidarity Pact, fertilizer prices and the cost of major
inputs are being maintained at their December 16 levels until March 1. There-
after they will be maintained in real terms through monthly adjustments.
During 1988, it is expected that, consistent with the Economic Solidarity
Pact, the weighted average fertilizer price will be kept constant in nominal
US Dollars. Beyond December 1988. the weighted average fertilizer price would
be increased by 12.3Z per year in constant US Dollars over their December 1987
Dollar level until the end of 1992. The December increase and subsequent
increases would permit to reach the required 120S overall real term increase
relative to September 1987 levels (equivalent to a 552 increase over end
Deceiber 1987 levels) but with heavy front loading of the overall increase
during the first year and a half. At negotiations. assurances were obtained
that price increases would take place as described above, until FERTIMEX has
reached financial self-sufficiency or prices have reached import parity.
whichever occurs first. It would be a condition of second tranche release
that the weighted average price of fertilizer has been increased by 2.92 in
constant US$ over its end-December 1987 Dollar level, corresponding to the
required increase in the first quarter. The weights to be used were agreed
upon during negotiations and correspond to the expected 1992 sale' %ix. The
graph below summarizes the expected changes in the key relationships between
list prices, unit costs and ex-FERTIMEX import parity if list prices increase
as intended by the Government. If international prices of inputs and outputs
increase as expected and the desired price adjustment in real terms is
achieved over the five year period, domestic prices at the ex-wholesale
warehouse level would cover all operating, import and financial costs by the
end of 1992, and reach between 85? and 90S of 1992 projected import parity
(Annex VII, Table 3).
Ex-FERTIMEX (Ust) Price, Unit Cost and Import Parity
(In real deeomber 1987 US Dollars)
1W 'lmPrt prity                  -
sMit coatcost.
LinPrerd price trajectory
Sep87 Dee.7 DeeS  Dee   Oc0 D9.1 0..9
Dot"
________              -Wege  meo pAe nd ese



- 20 -
Prices beycnd the FERTIMEX warehouses would be determined by market forces,
and include distribution costs and profit margins. It is expected that by end
1992 farm-gate prices of fertilizer would be on average between 85X and 902 of
their equivalent import price, compared to an average of less than 50? in mid-
1987. Such increases are not expected to affect significantly agricultural
productivity and farmer incomes and are consistent with output pricing
policies agreed upon under the Agricultural Sector Loan (ASL) which has been
processed in parallel to this operation (para. 100). Moreover, the proposed
scheme would improve Government finances by completely eliminating budgetary
transfers to meet deficits in FERTIMEX's operating costs and remaining debt
service payments. If international prices of fertilizer remain at present
levels (with ammonia prices not exceeding export parity), list prices will
reach import parity in 1990 and the pressure on imports would maintain them at
such parity. Finally, through the inclusion in its cost and price
calculations of an 82 financial rate of return on equity invested in new
projects (para. 43), FERTIMEX would also be able to progressively increase its
ability to self-finance its investments and working capital needs.
46.      At present, fertilizer prices are set twice a year just prior to the
start the two major agricultural cycles, and crop guarantee prices are
announced at the same time. While it is logical that real price increases
would take place at that time, it is essential that FERTIMEX be allowed to
adjust list prices more frequently within each six-months period to reflect
the evolution of the exchange rate and world inflation: If distributors can
purchase fertilizer from FERTIMEX at the same price throughout the semester,
they will delay purchases as much as possible because, even if they can freely
charge financial costs they incurred, fertilizer bought later can be sold
cheaper or with higher profits than fertilizer bought earlier in the season
and stored at higher financial cost. Thus, the present system gives dealers
the incentive to purchase their requirements as close as possible to the
expected price increase. Such a system defeats the purpose of the proposed
changes in distribution policies and financial restructuring of FERTIMEX
because: (a) it would provide no incentives to distributors for early take-
off and storage of fertilizer, thus requiring excessive primary storage
capacity in FERTIMEX; underutilizing available secondary storage; and
unnecessarily straining the transport system at critical times; and (b) it
would result in financial losses for FERTIMEX since, by selling prior to price
revisions, the company could not recover financial costs on inventories, thus
subsidizing distributors. The design of a proper price adjustment mechanisms
within each adjustment period that would be applied beyond the duration of the
Economic Solidari-:y Pact will be based on the recommendations of the first
phase of the proposed distribution study (para. 42).
(d) Fertilizer Imports
47.      Present trade regulations allow the free imports of fertilizers,
without any quantitative restrictions or the application of official reference
prices and other Non Tariff Barriers (NTBs) and the present tariff structure
specifies zero import tariffs on all major fertilizers (Annex VII, Table 4).
While the private sector is free to import fertilizers, this is hardly
profitable under the present pricing policies. As long as domestic fertilizer
prices are significantly below international prices, FERTIMEX will continue to
be, de facto, a monopoly importer. However, as the gap between domestic and



- 21 -
international prices narrows, private importers are likely to become
interested in importing fertilizer, in particular in the northern region where
high nutrient content fertilizer may be readily available at competitive
prices from the US. If international fertilizer prices do not rise as sharply
as currently projected (Annex VII, Table 3), significant levels of imports may
occur even sooner during FERTIMEX's proposed restructuring period, causing
possible pressure to reintroduce protective measures. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that there would be no "backtrackin", i.e., that
fertilizer imports would remain free from quantitative restrictions, official
reference prices and other non tariff barriers (NTBs) and that their tariff
structure would be maintained at its level of December 15. 1987. Compliance
with these policies would be a condition of second tranche release.
(e)  Links Between PEMEX and FERTIMEX for Ammonia and Urea Production
48.      Several steps have been taken in order to facilitate closer operating
coordination between PEMEX and FERTIHEX and ensure more rational planning of
new investments. With respect to coordination of operations, PEMEX and
FERTIMEX have carried out a detailed review of appropriate mechanisms and they
have developed coordination procedures which they will implement on the basis
of an agreement between the two companies. The procedures laid down in the
agreement provide inter alia for: (i) annual production planning and periodic
performance reviews at the corporate level; (ii) the formulation of joint
action programs to deal with problems impacting on production identified in
the periodic performance reviews; (iii) joint planning/review at the plant
level of the monthly production targets; and (iv) review at the plant level of
performance against planned targets and the formulation and implementation of
necessary actions to improve performance. A satisfactory draft agreement was
reviewed during negotiations; its si£ning would be a condition of loan effect-
iveness. With respect to the planning of new investments, it was agreed that,
as part of the methodology to be used to assess the economic viability of
sector investments (para. 51), the economic viability of urea plants would be
assessed together with their upstream ammonia plants, and these combined
investments would have to meet the minimum rate of return criteria specified
in para. 53 below.
(f) organizational Restructuring
49.      In 1987 PERTIMEX, after extensive preparation, put in place a cost
accounting system which allows the establishment of cost centers.  FERTIMEX
has also started to decentralize a number of production, accounting, adminis-
trative and control functions (production, maintenance and revamping invest-
ments, programming and budgeting, accounting, inventory control, invoicing and
collecting, demand forecasting) to regional levels and to develop the neces-
sary support systems (including computerization). Simultaneously during 1987,
a review of FERTIMEX's holdings led to the sale of two subsidiaries
(Petroquimica del Bajio and FERTICA) and to the partial privatization of a
third subsidiary (Transportes Centrales) with FERTIMEX retaining only minority
ownership. While these ongoing financial accounting and control efforts are
prerequisites to introducing a more efficient organization structure and
management information system, they do not address the longer-term issue on
how FERTIMEX should be organized to efficiently carry out the new medium and
long-term strategy spelled out in the Sector Policy Statement for the



- 22 -
subsector. To that effect, based ons (i) the Sector Policy Statement;
(ii) the results of the first phase of the distribution study; tiii) the
program of plant closure; (iv) the five-year investment program agreed upon
with the Bank during negotiation; and (v) the results of the new cost account-
ing system, FERTIMEX will formulate a 5-year strategic plan and on this basis
carry out a study of its optimum medium and long term organizational structure
necessary to efficiently fulfill its revised function and carry out this plan.
Under this study various organizational options would be reviewed. including
options involving increased decentralization and establishment of autonomous
profit centers or regional subsidiaries. The study will also review the
justification for FERTIMEX to keep its remaining subsidiaries that are
unrelated to fertilizer activities and recommend an option, or a sequence of
options, concerning appropriate changes in cost accounting, financial manage-
ment and information and control systems, staffing levels and functions and
performance incentives. The study is to be carried out by FERTIMEX as
follows t
(i) a first phase to be initiated no later than by the end of June
1988 (i.e. as soon as the recommendations of the first phase of
the distribution study are available) and to be completed by the
end of 1988 would review the medium-term strategy of FERTIMEX
and determine the organization option(s) for the optimal medium
and long term organizational structure of FERTIMEX to meet its
objectives;
(ii)  the recommendations of the study would be forwarded to the Bank
for consultations to take place no later than by the end of
March 1989. Subsequently, FERTIMEX's management would select
the preferred option or sequence of options to be pursued; and
(iii)  the second phase of the study to be completed by the end of
September 1989 would assess the required changes to systems,
functions and procedures including steps and a calendar for
implementation of the study's recommendations. Following
consultations with the Bank the agreed-upon recommendations on
actions and their timing would be implemented.
At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the study would be carried out
according to terms of reference as agreed-upon during negotiations (Annex XI),
with the assistance of qualified consultants acceptable to the Bank, and
according to the schedule presented above. Completion of the first phase of
the study and of consultation with the Bank on its recommendations, would be
conditions of second tranche release.
(g) Financial RestructurinA
50.      To ensure that FERTIMEX can operate on a sound financial basis and is
protected against the large foreign exchange risks associated with its out-
standing debt, the Government has agreed that US$880 million, i.e., about 85Z
of the company's total debt of US$1,032, will be converted into equity. The
terms and conditions have been incorporated into the draft 9Convenio* between
the Gover,ment and FERTIMEX (para. 40). On the basis of this conversion and
of the restructuring measures described earlier, FERTIMEX is expected to reach
financial autonomy in 1992. The Convenio will include a set of tentative



- 23 -
financial targets to monitor FERTIMEX's financial performance, as well as
Government's and FERTIMEX's respective obligations with respect to all major
aspects of the policy package and the investment program and production
efficiency targets to be reached. At negotiations assurances were obtained
that FERTIMEX would maintain:  (i) a debt/equity ratio of no more than 40/60;
(ii) a current ratio of no less than 1.1 in 1988, 1.2 in 1989, 1.3 in 1990,
1.4 in 1991 and 1.5 in 1992 and beyond; and (iii) a debt service ratio of no
less than 1.0. Assurances were also obtained that the Government would
provide all resources as necessary for FERTIMEX to cover its debt service
payments.
(h) 3RTIHE's Investment Criteria
51.      The Government and FERTIMEX have resolved to limit investments in the
fertilizer sector to those which have a minimum economic rate of return of
102, with the following exceptions to be included in the 'Convenio' concerning
investments related tot (i) pollution control for existing plants,
(ii) health and safety; (iii) research and development; (iv) training;
(v) computer infrastructure and systems; (vi) social and administrative infra-
structure up to an aggregate of US$10 million per year; (vii) major mainte-
nance, and minor rehabilitation investment of a value of US$50,000 each; and
(viii) retail distribution infrastructure in marginal areas (para. 42). In
addition, the economic evaluation of each urea plant would be carried out in
conjunction with its upstream ammonia plant, considering them as a single
investment, with natural gas (the feedstock in ammonia production) priced at
its opportunity value (at present estimated at the international fuel oil
equivalent). The methodology of economic evaluation of proiects and the
assumptions regarding projected international prices of maior fertilizer and
fertilizer raw materials were agreed upon during negotiations. The Bank has
reviewed a tentative medium term investment program for PERTIMEX (Annex VI)
which is acceptable in principle pending confirmation of the economic
viability of some of the investments. Assurances were obtained that. by
June 30 of each year, the Bank and FERTIMEX would jointly review the
investment program for the next fiscal year. It would be a condition of
second tranche release that based on a ioint review the 1989 investment
program of FERTIMEX the Bank is satisfied that the proiects included in the
program meet the aareed investment criteria.
B. The Investment Proaram
52.      The objective of the investment program (for details see Annex VI) is
to achieve an optimum industry structure in the early 19909 by (a) rationa-
lizing the distribution infrastructure of FERTIMEX in line with the
Government's new fertilizer distribution policies (para. 42) aiming at
reducing distribution costs; (b) supporting the rationalization of existing,
viable production plants to permit their operation at maximum efficiency; and
(c) constructing new capacity which can economically replace closed-down
plants in line with projected increases in domestic demand.



- 24 _
53.      Investment requirements are significant in this highly capital-inten-
sive industry; they may total about US$330 million 41 during 1987-92, or about
US$55 million per year on average. This represents a sharp decrease relative
to the historical average of US$220 million per year during the period
1980-85. Rationalization investments would require about US$100 million, and
completion of on-going investments about US$90 million. The remaining US$140
million for new capacity is highly tentative and would be required if all
investments under consideration are justified by future increases in domestic
demand and prove economically viable. Foreign exchange requirements of the
program are estimated to about US$170 million over the period if all projects
are carried out. Investment decisions for some projects not included in the
above estimates are not expected until 1989190 depending mainly on actual
changes in domestic demand and would depend on prospects for demand in the
mid-1990's, raw material costs and international fertilizer prices. A final
investment decision has been made only to replace closed-down nitrogen
capacity by completing two urea plants under turnkey contracts with total
investment requirements of between US$130 and US$150 million. These
investments are estimated to meet the Government's and FERTIMEX' minimum 10Z
economic rate of return criteria provided they are constructed under turnkey
arrangements to minimize costs and the implementation period.
54.      Through the proposed loan, the Bank would support FERTIMEX rational-
ization investments and the completion of the Pajaritos ammonium nitrate
plant, all which are ectrnomically justified and will not result in any addi-
tion to the existing nutrient capacity (the Pajaritos plant will use ammonia
from the existing PEMEX plants).
PART IV - THE PROPOSED OPERUTION
55.      The need for an in-depth analysis of the fertilizer subsector was
first identified duting the joint Bank/Government review of the Public Sector
Investment Program in May/June 1985. In November 1985, a subsector review
mission visited Mexico and subsequently prepared a sector report which out-
lined the need for in-depth structural and policy reforms and formed the basis
for subsequent discussions with the Government. A preappraisal mission for a
Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan took place in November 1986, followed by an
appraisal in April 1987. Negotiations were held in Washington DC during the
period January 20 through February 21, 1988. The Mexican delegation was
headed by Mr. Luis Nava of NAFIN and included Messrs. Angel Gurria and Antonio
Cervera (SHCP), Jorge Bazua (SEMIP), Hector Flores (NAFIN), Enrique
Villanueva, Jaime Avalos and Alejandro Velez (FERTIMEX). Annex 1I provides
supplementary data on the project.
A. Obiectives
56.      The proposed US$265 million Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)
is intended to be the first of several possible operations to assist int
(a) implementating the medium-term restructuring objectives of the Government
41 Not including the two ammonia plants undet implementation by PENEX.



- 25 -
and PERTIMEX outlined in the Sector Policy Statement (Annex ISI); and
(b) carrying out viable investments in support of this program. The proposed
loan has been designed to provide Bank support to the Government's five-year
adjustment program mainly during its first critical two years. These adjust-
ments require (i) the implementation of a series of policy reforms, as stated
in the Sector Policy Statement and summarized in Part III and in the policy
matrix in Annex IV, and (ii) carrying-out of supporting rationalization
investments. Subsequent operations would continue to support the implementa-
tion of the program building on progress made promoting an optimum organiza-
tion structure in the sector and increasing competition and private sector
involvement.
D. Description and Loan Components
57.      The Loan objectives would be achieved through three components of:
(a) US$200 million to finance fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials
(US$150 million) imports and other imports (US$50 million);
(b) US$63.6 million to finance 442 of the total costs of priority
rationalization investments in existing, viable production facilities
and in distribution infrastructure; and the completion of an ammonium
nitrate plant; and
(c) US$1.4 million for the financing of technical and training assistance
and computer infrastructure to studys (i) the required changes ir
the organization of FERTIMEX; (ii) modalities of PEU TIMEX withdrawal
from retail and consignment operations; (iii) development of specifi-
cations, evaluation method and operating measures for the use of
several types of phosphate rock in phosphoric acid plants: and
(iv) upgrading of the planning capabilities of FERTIMEX.
(a) The Imwort Component
58.      This component would finance: (i) the imports of fertilizers and of
fertilizer raw materials over a period of about two and a half years, for a
total amount of US$150 million; and (ii) general imports for a total of US$50
million to be disbursed during 1988. These amounts together are about
equivalent to the estimated import requirements of the sector over the period
1988-90 (para. 82) and would facilitate the implementation of the Government's
policy package of reforms as defined in the Sector Policy Statement and
according to an implementation program summarized in the matrix in Annex IV.
The estimated value of fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials imports is
provided in Annex VIII, Table 3. The financing of general imports of up to
US$50 million is necessary mainly because FERTIMEX has already entered into
contractual agreements, under procedures incompatible with Bank Procurement
Guidelines, for most of its raw materials requirements for the year.



- 26 -
(b) Rationalization Investments - Production
59.       i)  Rationalization/Modernization of Viable Production Plants.
These investments would consist of a series of relatively minor revampings in
several plants (Pajaritos, Minatitlan and Bajio) and the purchase and
installation of measuring instrumentation for these same plants. Although
modest in amount (total project costs of only US$20.1 million), these invest-
ments are critical in bringing existing plants to maximum achievable capacity
utilization and efficiency and solve some pollution problems without major
investments, and allow them to become economically viable in the medium term.
A li3t of these investments is provided in Annex VIII, Table 7.
60.      (ii)  Completion of the Paiaritos Anmonium Nitrate Plant.  In 1982,
FERTIMEX initiated the implementation of a nitric acid/nitrogen solution plant
with the objective of exporting nitrogen solutions. As world market prices
fell, the decision was taken to use ammonia (the major feedstock) from PEMEX's
existing plants to satisfy domestic needs. PERTIMEX therefore rightly decided
in 1986 to add a granulation plant to the project for the production of solid
ammonium nitrate, delete the nitrogen solutions production, and redirect the
output to the domestic market. The investment is well underway (30?
completed) but completion has been held up during 1986 and 1987 due to lack of
Government budgetary funds and domestic credit resources. Completion, esti-
mated to cost US$48.3 million, will be financed under the proposed project.
Located in Pajaritos, the project consists of an ammonium nitrate plant with a
capacity of 270,000 tpy, and of a nitric acid plant (as an intermediate) with
a capacity of 215,000 tpy. The two units are similar in size and technology
to those recently completed in Lazaro Cardenas and financed as part of the
Second Fertilizer Project (para. 106).
(c) Rationalization of Distribution Infrastructure
61.      The investments described below would permit the implementation of
the new Government policy to limit FERTIMEX's participation into distribution
to no more than 120 regulatory (wholesale) storage facilities and would con-
tribute to significantly reduce overall distribution costs by permitting a
more extensive use of storage in bulk and bulk transportation by coastal ship-
ment or rail. All proposed investments will be owned and operated by
FERTIMEX, at least initially. Some of the warehouses built under the project
may subsequently be leased, contracted-out or sold to private agents, depend-
ing on experience with the existing private wholesale warehouses (para. 42)
and on competitive pressure in their respective locations. Similarly, it is
expected that FERTIMEX's maritime terminals would be available to private
importers for a fee. These would also have the option of using other port
facilities.
62.      (i)  Wholesale Storage Facilities.  Consistent with the Government
policy to withdraw from retail operations and the need to maintain inventories
in primary storage in the consuming areas only in up to 120 storage facili-
ties, FERTIMEX has prepared a first step program for establishing 71
relatively large size wholesale warehouses for solid fertilizers and 20
storage spheres for anhydrous ammonia (para. 42). The location and size of
the proposed facilities were determined taking into account existing storage
capacity of FERTIMEX and of other agents of a size large enough to fulfill



- 27 -
that fun:tion (Annex V, Table 5), whether owned or rented by PERTIMEX, or
operated by service agents for a fee. Out of the 71 warehouses, 53 already
exist and 4 are under construction; almost all of these were conceived for
storage of bagged material. Out of the 20 spheres, 10 are already in opera-
tion and 6 are under construction. The project would finance the remaining 14
warehouses and four spheres in agreed locations for a total cost of US$38.1
million and US$9.S million, respectively. The warehouses financed under the
project however would be designed to receive and handle material in bulk and
would have a storage capacity of 5,000 to 30,000 tons of fertilizers. The
ammonia spheres would have a storage capacity of 2,000 to 3,500 tons each.
The location of these investments is shown on the map. Total storage capacity
built under the project would amount to 200,000 tons of solid and 11,000 tons
of liquid fertilizers.  A list of the p.anned facilities to be financed under
the loan with their characteristics and cost estimates is presented in Annex
VIII, Tables 8 and 10. By the end of 1989, the 71 warelk ases and 20 spheres
will have a total primary storage capacity of 1.33 million and 41,740 tons
respectively, or 3.2 months of projected domestic consumption. Additional
storage is available at the plants, which can be used as primary storage for
the surrounding consuming areas. By the end of 1989, 152 of total storage
capacity (excluding plant storage) will be for bulk materials, thus permitting
substantial transport, handling and storage cost savings and provide
opportunities for the start of many bulk-blending operations. These
operations which require small investments, can provide valuable services to
farmers by supplying them with fertilizer formulaes adapted to their exact
needs irrespective of volumes and providing soil testing services and
technical advice. The possibility of retrofitting a number of the existing
facilities to bulk handling and storage will be studied and if economically
and financially justified, the associated cost will be included in FERTIMEX's
investment program. Consideration will also be given later on to the
construction of additional warehouses if necessary.
63.      (ii) Maritime Terminals.  In 1986, about 900,000 tons of fertilizer,
imported and domestically produced, transited through the major Mexican ports
to consuming areas. Maritime movements, however, are constrained by inade-
quate storage infrastructure, unloading equipment at the ports, and, in two
cases, insufficient berths, thus limiting quantities and entailing high costs.
The project would finance necessary improvements in 7 ports, including the
construction or retrofitting of dedicated bulk fertilizer warehouses, unload-
ing equipment, simple berth extensions or construction in two ports
(Topolobampo and Altamira) and, as necessary, dredging and railroad sidings
and connections. Total capital costs are estimated at US$27.7 million.
Details of these investments and a breakdown of capital costs are provided in
Annex VIII, Table 9. These investments, in conjunction with the above-
described warehouse program, will permit bulk transportation to primary
storage of at least 1.7 million tons of fertilizer by 1990, by sea and land
(342 of all projected domestic sales) at substantially lower cost than
presently.



- 28 -
(d) Technical Assistance Component
64.      Four studies and programs would be financed under the project:
(i) A reorganization study for FERTIHEX (US$600,000), the principal
objective of which will be to develop an improved organization
structure for FERTIMEX in the medium term (para. 49);
(ii) A distribution study of alternative methods and their respective
implications for FERTIMEX to withdraw from retail and consign-
ment operations in the various regions; and to establish a list
of retail outlets in marginal areas (US$500,000);
(iii) A study to develop specifications for various types of phosphate
rock to be used in FERTIMEX's plants; a method of comparative
economic evaluation of the various rock types; and optimal
operating conditions for each rock type (US$200,000); and
(iv) Technical assistance and training and the provision of computer
infrastructure for upgrading FERTIMEX's planning capabilities
(US$145,000).
All studies would be carried out by FERTIMEX with the assistance of qualified
consultants and under terms of reference both satisfactory to the Bank.
Summary terms of reference for the distribution and the reorganization studies
were agreed upon during negotiat.ons and are provided in Pm.nexes X and XI.
Total costs for the studies are estimated at US$1.4 million. A breakdown of
capital costs is provided in Annex VIII. Table 5. An estimated 140 man-months
will be required to carry them out, including about 80 man-months of foreign
consultants.
C. Costs and Financina
65.      Total project costs are estimated at US$346 million (including
US$8.8 million of import duties, and US$13.8 million of indirect taxes), with
a foreign exchange component of US$265 million. The proposed loan would
finance the foreign exchange component, equivalent to tEOZ of total costs net
of duties and taxes, and 471 of total investment and technical assistance and
training costs. The Government would contribute US$81 million (232 of total
costs) as equity to FERTIMEX to finance local costs. Total project costs and
the financing plan are summarized in Annex VIII, Table 1. A further breakdown
of investment and technical assistance costs is provided in Annex VIII,
Tables 3 and 4. Details are available in the Projeot File. Project costs
were estimated in US$ of February/March 1987, updated to January 1988, using
the Unit Value Index of Manufacturing Exports (MUV index) as projected by the
Bank for 1987 (31 increase for the whole year 1987). Price contingencies were
calculated for the investment and technical assistance components with the
following percentage increases: 11 per year in 1988-90 and 3.52 subsequently.



- 29 -
D. Imlementation. Borrowina Arranhements. Monitorima and Auditint
(a) Imnlementation
66.      NAVIN will carry-out the import component as financial agent of the
Government and FERTIMEX will carry-out the investment and technical assistance
components. In order to efficiently carry out the project investments and
avoid recurrence of project implementation problems experienced under past
operations (para. 106), ERTIMEX has considerably improved its project manage-
ment organization. Detailed staffing and internal procedures were reviewed
during negotiations and are satisfactory (Project File, Reference I). It is
expected that funds for imports will be committed by June 1990 and that the
investment and technical assistance components will be completed in early
1993. Schedules for the various components are summarized in Annex VIII,
Table 6. Detailed schedules are available in the Project File.
(b) Borrowing Arrangements. Onlending Terms and Conditions
67.      NAFIN is a Government-owned development finance institution with
ample experience in administeringlonlending Bank loans. Under this operation,
it will borrow from the Bank and onlend the proceeds of the loan to PERTTX.
Bank funds for investments and technical assistance and training will be
relent to PERTIMEX with the same repayment and grace periods as the Bank loan
to NAFIN (15 years, including 3 years of grace). FERTIMEX would pay NAFIN the
Bank variable interest rate, plus a spread of 1O0 of the interest rate, and
would assume all foreign exchange risks. Of this spread, NAFIN would keep 114
of 12 as a loan administration fee and would transfer the balance to the
Goverrment budget. Bank funds for import financing would be passed on by
NAPIN to the Government, which would assume the foreign exchange risk and the
responsibility for debt servicing through NAFIN.
(c) Monitoring and RenortinR
68.      YETIMEX will be responsible for preparing semi-annual progress
reports. Progress in implementing the Government program of policy measures
(Annex III) including implementation of the action program to be carried out
as a condition of second tranche release (para. 78), will be monitored by the
General Directorate for Fertilizer and Chemical Industries of SEMIP, who will
timely inform the Bank of compliance and of reasons for any delays which may
occur.
(d) Auditing
69.      FERTIMEX accounts are audited annually by a firm of public account-
ants (Del Valle, Iturbe y Asociados). The auditor's reports have been timely
(end of March of each year) and comprehensive in scope. FERTIMEX will main-
tain separate accounts for the project investments and imports financed under
the Loan. NAVIN will maintain separate accounts to record imports financed
under the Loan. These accounts, the Special Account (para. 76), statements of
expenditures and the Financial Statements of FERTIHEX will be audited at the
end of each fiscal year by independent and qualffied auditors. The auditor's
report will be forwarded to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. Appropriate assurances were obtained at negotiations.



- 30 -
E. Procurement and Disbursements
(a) Procurement
70.      The procurement arrangements for the Loan are summarized in
A&nex VIII, Table 2. Equipment financed by the Bank loan will be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) using procedures consistent
with Bank guidelines, except for: (i) proprietary equipment up to an aggregate
of US$4 million to be procured by direct purchase; (ii) items with an
estimated value of less than US$500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$7,000,000, to be procured under limited international bidding
procedures (LIB); and (iii) off the shelf items with a value of less than
US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$4,000,000, to be procured by
shopping based on price quotations obtained from qualified suppliers from at
least two countries eligible under the Bank Guidelines. The aggregate of
equipment contracts under the Bank loan to be procured under procedures other
than ICB will thus not excee( US$15 million equivalent. For the purposes of
bid evaluation under ICB for equipment contracts, qualified local suppliers
will receive a margin of preference of 15Z or the applicable duty for such
goods, whichever is lower. Mexican companies are expected to supply about 33S
by value of the equipment contracts procured under ICB financed by the Bank
loan. Civil Work and Erection contracts financed by the Bank loan will be
procured under ICB in packages satisfactory to the Bank of no less than US$2
million. Contracts with an estimated value of less than $2.0 million, and not
to exceed an aggregate of US$8 million, may be procured using Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Consultancy
service contracts for the technical assistance component to be financed by the
loan will be let in accordance with Bank guidelines. The procedures for
letting contracts under local competitive bidding have been reviewed with
FERTIMEX and provide for effective competition and efficient contract
implementation and are satisfactory.
71.      All contracts for equipment materials and civil works estimated to
cost over US$500,000, and contracts for consultancy services financed under
the loan will be subject to the Bank's review of procurement documentation,
resulting in a coverage of about 701 of the total estimated value of Bank
financed contracts. In addition, procurement of equipment and materials will
be through pre-agreed standardized bid documents based on the Bank's Sample
Bid Documents. The balance of contracts will be subject to post review.
72.      Contracts for imports of fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials of a
value of more than US$l million will be procured through ICB procedures
consistent with Bank guidelines using standardized bid documents to be agreed
with the Bank prior to the start of procurement, except for phosphate rock for
technical grade phosphoric acid imported during 1988, to which the procedures
detailed in the next paragraph would apply. Contracts for imports of ferti-
lizer and fertilizer raw materials of a value of less than US$1 million would
be procured using the normal procurement practices of FERTIMEX.
73.      As a transitional measure phosphate rock required in 1988 for the
Pajaritos technical grade phosphoric acid plant would be procured on a sole
source basis up to an aggregate of US$20 million. This will afford PERTIMEX
sufficient time to prepare the necessary plant and operational adjustment



- 31 -
measures, specifications and evaluation methods for the procurement of phos-
phate rock under ICB for this plant as well as other plants in subsequent
years. Assurances were obtained that no later than by the end of August 1988,
PERTIMEX would prepare a program, assisted by international consultants satis-
factory to the Bank and financed under the loan, on the measures to be taken
at each phosphoric acid plant and the necessary rock specifications and evalu--
ation methods to be adopted so tnat all rock imports in 1989 and beyond can be
procured under ICB (para. 84).
74.      Contracts for procurement of general imnorts (subject to a negative
list), not to exceed US$50 million in aggregate, would be procured under ICB
when estimated to cost US$5 million or more; contracts for the import of other
goods estimated to cost less than US$5 million would be procured on the basis
of normal procurement practices of the purchaser.
75.      All tenders for the import of fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials
with an estimated value of US$2 million and above, and the first 5 tenders,
irrespective of value, will be subject to Bank prior review of procurement
documentation. The average tender amount for imports of fertilizer and ferti-
lizer raw materials is estimated at about US$5 million. All tenders for the
import of other goods with an estimated value of US$5 million and above will
also be subject to Bank prior review of procurement documentation.
(b) Disbursements
76.      Disbursements from the Loan would be on the basis oft 1002 of foreign
expenditures for imports of fertilizers and fertilizer raw materials and other
importst 1002 of foreign expenditur' ,, 1002 of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 802 of local expenditures for equipment and materials procured as
described in para. 70; 1002 of foreign expenditures and 802 of local expendi-
tures in civil works and erection contracts procured as described in para. 70;
1002 of expenditures for training and studies. The amounts to be financed
under each category are presented in Annex VIII, Table 2. Retroactive
financing of fertilizer and fertilizer raw material imports would be limited
to US$1 million for expenditures made after January 1, 1988. Disbursements
would be fully documented except for expenditures under contracts or purchase
orders valued at less than US$500,000 for goods and civil works and US$2
million for fertilizer and fertilizer raw material imports and general
imports, for which statements of expenditure would be accepted. The
documentation for these expenditures would be retained by NAFIN and made
available for periodic inspection by Bank staff. In order to accelerate
disbursements under the investments, training and study components, a special
account would be established in NAFIN with an initial amount of US$6 million,
equivalent to the average 4-months expenditures for these components.
77.      The import component of the loan would be disbursed in two tranches
of US$100 million each. As completion of all loan components is expected in
five and a half years, disbursements will take place over a period of about
six years, starting June 1988, the expected date of effectiveness (Annex VIII,
Table 2). The Loan would therefore be closed by December 31, 1993, assuming
that funds for imports of fertilizers and fertilizer raw materials will be
disbursed over a period of two and a half years and that those for the
investment, training and study components will be disbursed according to the
Bank's standard profile for Fertilizer and Chemicals Projects.



- 32 -
(c) Effectiveness and Tranche Release
78.      The proposed loan would become effective upon signature of the
FERTIMEX 'Conveaio' (para. 40), the PEMEX agreement (para. 48), and the subsi-
diary loan agreement between NAFIN and FERTIMEX. The first tranche would be
released by effectiveness (expected by June 1988). The second tranche would
be released once the following conditions have been met:
(i) The 1988 plant closure program has been implemented (para. 41);
(ii) The distribution study has been completed and the resulting plan
of action is satisfactory to the Bank; and withdrawal from
retail and consignment operations has occurred, accounting for
at least 10  of total sales of solid fertilizer (in tons of
products) in 1987 (para. 42);
(iii)  By March 31, 1989, the weighted average fertilizer price has
increased by 2.9Z in constant US$ (of December 1987) over their
end-December 1987 level (para. 45);
(iv)  By March 31, 1989 the price of ammonia have increased to at
least 482 of the export price (para. 44);
(v) Prices of sulfur purchased from domestic suppliers are in line
with the export price (adjusted for differences in quality)
(para. 44);
(vi) Imports of fertilizer have remained free from quantitative
restrictions and other non-tariff barriers and their tariff
structure has been maintained at December 15, 1987 levels
(para. 47);
(vii) The first phase of the FERTIMEX organizational study has been
completed and FERTIMEX has exchanged views with the Bank on its
recommendations (para. 49); and
(viii) The 1988 investment program of FERTIMEX has been implemented and
the 1989 investment program has been jointly reviewed with the
Bank and the Bank has been satisfied that it meets the agreed
investment criteria (para. 51).
The above conditions are expected to be met by April 1989. Further satisfac-
tory progress in line with the respective established calendars for (iii),
(iv), (v) and (vi) above would have to be shown if second t,1nche release were
to take place at a later date. Assurances were obtained on these asDects.
P. Effects of the Proposed Program
(a) Economic and Financial Viability of FERTIMEX
79.      The implementation of the proposed program of physical restructuring
(plant closure, plant optimization and rationalization of distribution infra-
structure) supported througi the loan will allow FERTIMEX's operations to



- 33 -
become economically viable beginning in 1990 at international prices as
projected for 1990 and beyond. The savings expected to result from the
various restructuring measures are summarized on the next pages
Economic Savinas Exnected froms
US$ per ton
marketed
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992        1992
-----(US$ million) in real 1986-----
Plant closures               45      30      20       21      21       3.8
Plant optimization           15      18      21       21      21       3.8
Distribution investments      1       2      15       20      25       4.5(7.5)
Total              61       50      56      62       67      lZ.1(15.1)
Financial Savints Expected by FERTIMEX from:
US$ per ton
marketed
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992        1992
--(US$ million) in real 1986 terms--
Plant closures               29      46      35       13      15      2.7
Plant optimization           13      16      19       19      19      3.4
Distribution investments      3       6      41       50      59     10.5(13.5)
Subtotal           45       68      95      82      93      16.6(19.6)
80.      The above economic savinQs are the estimated result of (a) implemen-
tation of the proposed plant closure program (para. 41); (b) measures aiming
at operating remaining plants at optimum efficiency, including revamping
investments (para. 59) and the adoption by FERTIMEX of a system of incentives
to plant managers and workers to optimize plant operations (para. 49 and
Annex VI); and (c) the proposed investments in maritime terminals and the
setting up of a network of primary warehouses (paras. 62-63). Savings aerived
from firmly planned physical restructuring.measures are thus estimated at
about US$12 per ton marketed by 1992 of which about US$7-US$8 per ton in
production activities and the balance (US$4 to US$5) in distribution activi-
ties. Additional economic savings of up to about US$3 per ton could be
achieved if the existing ERTIDMEX primary warehouses can be retrofitted to
handle bulk materials (para. 62), thus increasing to' l distribution savings
to US$7-8 per ton. Financial savings to FERTIMEX in distribution costs are
significantly higher than economic savings since they include additional
benefits from withdrawal from retail distribution (transport, operating and
financial costs) and from the elimination of consignment sales (control costs,
fees, losses and product disappearances). Thus, it is estimated that total
financial distribution costs of FERTnMEX could be reduced by US$10.5 to
US$13.5 per ton, or 202 to 30Z of current average financial distribution costs



- 34 -
of FERTIMEX (estimated at US$45 per ton). Total financial savings (US$80 to
100 million per year in the period 1990-92), represent a 10 to 12Z reduction
in total Zertilizer production and distribution costs as projected for the
same period in the absence of restructuring measures. Finally, the financial
restructuring package would eliminate most of the existing long term debt of
PERTIMEX. Interest payments saved in 1989 would have amounted to about US$57
million, or US$12 per ton of fertilizer sold.
81.      With the implementation of the new pricing mechanisms and the finan-
cial restructuring of FERTIMEX's heavy debt FERTIMEX is expected to become
progressively self-supporting. By 1990, FERTIMEX should be in a position
practically to cover all its costs and service its remaining debt out of its
own resources. In addition, by 1992, internal cash generation should be
sufficient to meet the equity financing of investments. FERTIMEX should no
longer show accounting losses by the end of 1992. The capital structure of
FERTIMEX would also be healthy during the restructuring period 1987-1992 with
long term debt as a small percentage (less than 152) of total capitalization.
The past and projected financial condition of FERTIMEX is further analyzed in
Annex IX.              .
(b) Impact on the National Budget
82.      The proposed program is expected to drastically reduce Government
budget transfers to the fertilizer subsector, as shown below:
Estimated Budget Transfers to FERTIMEX
for Oerations and Investments
(USS million)
1986       1987 la  1988     1989     1990     1991   1992
Actual     ------(US$ million, in real terms-------
Total transfers   385.8       365.0    311.3    166.6    80.0      46.0
la Tentative.
Budget transfers for operations and investments would thus be totally elimi-
nated by 1992 resulting in savings in budgetary transfers for operations and
investments over the period 1988-92 of about US$1.3 billion. The above trans-
fers do not include funds required for the servicing of FERTIMEX's long term
debts which have been assumed by the Government as part of the company's
financial restructuring program (para. 50). Principal payments on this debt
in 1986 amounted to US$124 million and are estimated to average US$70 million
per year over the period 1987-98.



- 35 -
(c) Impact on the Balance of Payments
83.      Total imports of finished fertilizer in 1986 amounted to US$66 mil-
lion and those of fertilizer raw materials to US$40 million. For 1987. these
imports are estimated at US$22 million and US$61 million, respectively. In
spite of new capacity coming on-stream at Lazaro Cardenas, as plants are being
closed-down. additional imports will be required to meet incremental demand
and make up for production lost while new plants are under construction.
Cumulative incremental imports of fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials over
their estimated 1987 level are estimated at US$185 million during the period
1988-1990. In order to help meet this increased import bill, the proposed
loan includes an amount of US$150 million to finance imnorts of finished
products and raw materials and US$50 million to finance general imports
(para. 58). Because the domestic price of certain types of fertilizer is
closer to import parity than others, the proposed import liberalization
measures (para. 47) may result in some inflows additional to the above-esti-
mated imports.
{d) Impact on the Agricultural Sector
84.      As detailed in para. 45, the elimination of budget transfers to
FERTIMEX over a period of 5 years will require increases in fertilizer list
prices of 120S over their end-September 1987 levels, or 552 in real terms over
end-December 1987 levels. The proposed price increases are not expected to
have any significant impact on agricultural production (Annex VII), particu-
larly if fertilizer price increases are compensated for by the producer
pricing measures agreed upon in the context of the proposed Agricultural
Sector Loan (ASL) (para. 100). The table below summarizes the maximum
magnitude of possible compensatory crop price increases and their relation
with projected increases in international prices.
Real increase (in S2) during the period September 1987-1992
Assumptions on International Prices
Tnternational
International     Crop and fertilizer
Crop and fertilizer   prices increasing
prices remaining at as projected by the
P-:esent levels           Bank
Fertilizer Prices
-    Ex-FERTIMEX (List) prices          + 85                   +1201
-    Retail fertilizer prices           +1002                   +1402
Crop Prices
-   Average increase in crop
prices required to compen-
sate for above fertilizer
price increases                +42 to +9S              +6S to +132
-    Required increases in crop
price to bring them to
import parity                  -5  to + 262 la       +1 to +28S lb
La   -5? for maize, 8S to 262 for rice, wheat, sorghum and soybeans.
lb   1? for wheat, 12? to 28? for maize, rice, sorghum and soybeans.



- 36 -
8!.      At present, guarantee prices are set for 12 crops every six months by
the Agricultural Cabinet. The general policy has been to set guarantee prices
on the basis of a weighted average of production costs for a variety of repre-
sentative technologies and areas, although the Government also takes into
account international prices as a reference. The levels of producer prices
relative to international prices have varied across time and crops, depending
on the level of the exchange rate (i.e., under- or over-valued), the
Government's priorities and its fiscal abilities to support a differential
between low consumer prices and high producer prices. Recently, the
Government's inability to subsidize this differential has caused farmgate
prices to fall significantly in 1986, so that the ratios of producer to
international prices were at the lowest levels in recent history (Annex VII,
Table 2)s 1.01 for maize, 0.85 for wheat, 0.75 for rice and 0.75 for soybeans.
Since that time, some prices have increased substantially relative to
international prices with other lagging still further behind, creating great
distortions between crops. The Government has pledged, as part of the
Economic Solidarity Pact, to maintain guarantee prices in rdal terms at their
1987 levels during 1988. However, under the ASL the Government is committed
to maintain them in 1989 within a band of 90X to 125Z of their international
parity. For other crops and downstream agroindustrial products, the ASL
conditionality on producer prices and on limits to the CONASUPO budget
available for general food subsidies does ensure that prices will not be kept
artificially low. The proposed ASL and this operation have been processed in
parallel to ensure consistency and complementarity of the two operations. In
the medium term, if output prices are left to adjust to international levels,
projected international crop price increases would more than compensate for
the proposed fertilizer price increases. In fact, the profitability of
production would increase by 2? (for wheat) to 28? (for rice) or 11 on
average for the five major crops (which accounted for 91Z of the 1985
harvested areas and about 58? of 1985 agricultural production value) as a
result of these favorable changes in relative prices.
(e) Social Impact of Adiustments
86.      The proposed adjustments will have adverse effects on consumers,
through their impact on food prices, and on employment, through the proposed
program of plant closures. Corrective measures are proposed to alleviate
these negative effects.
87.      Increases in food prices and impact on consumers.   The impact of
fertilizer price increases on food prices cannot be isolated from the effect
of measures sought under the ASL to reduce or eliminate a number of subsidies
and rationalize output pricing policies. Total projected increases in prices
of basic foodstuffs (maize, rice, wheat, vegetable oil) may increase
substantially (up to 50?) in reil terms during this period, thus eroding the
purchasing power of consumers, particularly of the poorest 202. In order to
compensate for losses in purchasing power of this category of consumers since
1983, a targetted foodstamp program has been put in place which would be
expanded as part of the ASL from US$60 million in 1987 to US$250 million in
1988 and is subsequently expected to reach no more than 0.2Z of current GDP
(about US$335 million) by 1991. The funding level of this program is
calculated to compensate for the adverse effects of the above-described price



- 37 -
increases on low income consumers and raise their purchasing power to the
levels of 1983, before subsidies began to be phased out.
88.      Net Employment Effects.  The total number of workers who will be
affected by plant closures is estimated at between 2,000 and 2,600 depending
on the final scope of the plant closure program (pars.. 41). Similar to past
closures (which have resulted in about 1,000 lay-offs), the affected workers
will be offered relocation in the new Lazaro Cardenas complex (estimated to
require an additional 600-800 workers), retraining and relocation elsewhere in
PERTIMEX or early retirement (about lOX - or 200-250) or a compensation
package according to the respective plants' collective labor agreements. Some
workers may also be offered employment (about 300) in the new urea plants
under consideration by the end of the 3-year closure program. Estimates of
lay-offs in production facilities thus range from a minimum of 700 to a maxi-
mum of 1,500 over a three-year period. The net impact of the administrative
restructuring of FERTIMEX will not be known until the reorganization study is
carried out (para. 49). As a minimum, the compensation package would corres-
pond to the legal requirement of three months of wages, plus 20 days per year
of service and an additional 12 days per year beyond 15 years of service.
Since all blue-collar workers are unionized into local sections of the
National Petrochemical Union, they will also receive additional compensation
from their respective sections, which can reach up to three additional months
of wages. Given the age of the plants and the average time of employment, it
is estimated that laid-off workers will on the average receive the equivalent
of 11 months wages, which is substantial. Total compensation costs for
FERTIMEX estimated to range between US$10 to US$15 million have been taken
into account in the design of the financial restructuring package. Finally,
the Government is stepping-up its retraining efforts for displaced workers,
including of FERTIMEX. These efforts are being supported by the Bank through
the recently approved Manpower Training Project.
(f) Environmental Impact
89.      Major pollutants from the operations of FERTIMEX are from the
sulfuric acid plants (sulfur dioxide and acid mist), the phosphoric acid
plants (fluorine and gypsum slurry), and nitric acid plants (nitrogen oxides).
Since the 1970's, all new plants have been designed to comply with national
standards (e.g. sulfur dioxide, water quality) or the standards of the US
Environmental Protection Agency for those instances where national standards
have not been set (e.g. acid mist, nitrogen oxides, fluorine). In general,
all plants constructed prior to the 1970's were designed to very much lower
standards than those now in effect. Although FERTIMEX has been able to
curtail considerably emissions from these plants by retrofitting pollution
abatement systems, for a number of pollutants, particularly atmospheric emis-
sions, the costs of further reducing emissions to new plant standards is
prohibitively high. The closure program is concentrated on those plants built
prior to the 1970's and will thus remove most of the plants that do not meet
new plant pollution standards. In addition, the investment program will
finance specific pollution abatement measures at Parajitos and Minatitlan
sites for the phosphoric acid and sulfuric acid plants (Annex VIII, Table 7).
With respect t. the new Lazaro Cardenas complex, FERTIMEX is currently
experiencing technical difficulties with the gypsum and effluent water
disposal system, which is resulting in polluted wdter discharge in the port.



- 38 -
FERTIMEX, however, is actively working at resolving these problems by the end
of 1988. Assurances were obtained that the nitric acidlaummnium nitrate plant
and all other investments financed under the Loan are designed to meet
emission and other environmental standards that are satisfactory to the Bank
and consistent with the laws and regulations of Mexico.
C. Benefits and Risks
(a) Economic and Financial Viability of Investments
90.      The investments financed under the Loan will yield significant finan-
cial and economic benefits, as summarized below:
Economic and Financial Viability of Planned Investments
1992                                   Internal
Annual Savings      Net Present              Rate
or net benefits      Value at 12Z           of Return
Financial Economic Financial Economic Financial Economic
--------------USS Million-------------  --------- --------
Distribution
Investments
Maritime TerminAls    8.2      9.9       18.3      21.8         24      30
Warehouses             5.5     8.3        2.4      16.8         13      22
Ammonia Spheres        2.4     5.6       -0.3      17.3         11      33
Subtotal        16.1    23.8
Production
Investments
Ammonium Nitrate
Plant              13.4    19'4        -2.3     34.1          11      23
Plant Rehabilitation  8.4      9.3       16.1     21.1          35      45
Subtotal        21.8    28.7
Total     37.9    52.5        34.2    111.1          18      29
The benefits from the proposed investments, which are part of the overall
benefits from the entire restructuring program, will significantly contribute
to the economic savings which may be derived from the restructuring program
(para. 79). They will permit distribution savings of US$4.2 per ton by 1992,
or 60Z to 902 of achievable savings, and of US$1.7 per ton in plant rehabili-
tation, or about half of achievable savings through plant optimization.
Detailed calculations for each individual investment and sensitivity analyses
are available in the Project File, and summarized in Annex VIII, Tables 7
through 14. The aggregated economic and financial rates of return for the
Project investments are 29Z and 18Z, respectively. The major differences
between the economic and financial rates of return result from differential
treatment of taxes and import duties on capital goods and differences between



- 39 -
economic (border) prices and financial prices. Financial prices were
projected using the pricing formula proposed in the draft policy statement
(Annex III, para. 3.2).
(b) Loan Justification and Risks
91.      The fertilizer restructuring program to be supported by the loan,
including the related policy measures and investment program, is expected to
improve efficiency and competitiveness in the sector, reduce dependence on
budgetary outlays, and complement ongoing structural adjustment measures
currently undertaken by Mexico. Adjustment in pricing policies, together with
the other adjustment measures mentioned below, would help reduce the prevail-
ing distortions in the sector by: (i) raising domestic ammonia prices close
to their export parity, all input prices would thus be priced about in line
with their international levels, which in turn would help rationalize domestic
fertilizer prices; (Li) shutting down non-viable plants based on long-run
international prices and building new capacity on the same basis, would again
achieve the same objectives as those of entry/exit signals based on import
parity pricing; (iii) as a result of the proposed pricing formula, domestic
farm-gate fertilizer prices would, by 1992 be about 130 percent of current
(1987) international prices or around 90 percent of 1992 international prices
as projected by the Bank, whi:h is a significant increase above the current
ratio of about 50 percent. 'Lis would substantially reduce the current
distortions in relative priLas (ratio of the price of fertilizers to the price
of major agricultural crops and other inputs); (iv) by making the distribution
system more attractive to the private sector and allowing farmgate prices to
be adjusted for additional distribution costs (beyond the ex-120 warehouse
level) and trofit margins, the Government would introduce a welcome element of
competition and efficiency into a previously closed sector. The ensuing bene-
fits of lower distribution costs and improved delivery service should be of
considerable benefit to the agricultural sector; (v) the proposed pricing
policy and the expected improvements in PERTIMEX's operations would substan-
tially reduce the huge fiscal transfers to FERTIMEX from the Government (esti-
mated as a minimum at US$1,500 million over the period 1987-1991). The
conversion into equity of a large portion of FERTIMEX's long-term debt would
have no net impact on the Government budget (since the Government makes the
funds available to PERTIMEX in any case), but will dramatically improve
FERTIMEX' s financial condition and financial and management autonomy.
Institutional changes to decentralize FERTIMEX and the introduction of a cost
accounting system would increase accountability, improve efficiency, and
permit proper measurement of competitiveness.
92.      The major risk facing this operation is a possible negative lmpact on
agricultural production if justified changes in output prices are not made to
compensate for increased fertilizer costs and, even more important, if avail-
ability of agricultural credit does not keep pace with increases in fertilizer
prices, particularly in rainfed areas. These risks are minimized by declared
Government policies being supported under the ASL and by the relatively small
increase required in agricultural credit availability (2.5? annually in real
terms), which would be well within projected financial saving rates in the
economy. These aspects will be closely monitored during implementation.
Another important risk is a possibility of back-sliding on fertilizer policies
by the Government once the loan is fully disbursed. An early opportunity for
aesessing performance is provided by the conditionality for second tranche
release (para. 78).



- 40 -
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEXICO
A. Bank Operations
93.      As of September 30, 1987, Mexico had received 103 loans from the
Bank, amounting to US$9.7 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 70 loans totalling US$4.7 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held
US$7.3 billion, of which US$2.47 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 35?
of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 20? for
industry, 16? for transportation, 8? for power, and 5? for policy-based
lending; the remaining 161 has been for water supply, tourism, urban develop-
ment, and vocational training.
94.      Of the US$9.7 billion total leading, about US$5.35 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit for areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in tNe
ceomercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry, mining and tourism. These credit
programs have facilitated lending to low income farmers and small- and medium-
scale industrial, mining and tourism enterprises.
95.      Adequately funded and properly monitored, Bank-assisted projects had
been implemented satisfactorily until mid-1982. Disbursements, as a result,
rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448 million in FY82. However, the 1982
financial crises caused delays in the provision of counterpart funds; conse-
quently, disbursements declined to US$389 million in FY83. A Special Action
Program (SAP) was established in early 1983 to help the Government by
alleviating the counterpart fi!ading constraints on development projects. A
total of 18 Bank-financed projects (including the US$350 million first Export
Development Loan approved in mid-1983) received support under the Program.
Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements improved, reachinig US$528.87
million in FY84, about 35? over the levels disbursed in FY83, and increased
further by about 492, to US$787.93 million in FY85. But, disbursements
dropped by about 182 to US$656.7 million in FY86. This decline is attributed
mainly to the acute shortage of counterpart peso funding, lack of credit
demand, and the delays in declaring some projects effective. However, disbur-
sements picked-up again, increasing in FY87 by about 532, to US$1.22 billion.
This increase can largely be attributed to the fast disbursement of the Trade
Policy Loan which became effective in November 1986.
B. InC Operations
96.      As of September 30, 1987, IPC had made investment commitments in 32
companies in Mexico, for a total of USS831.7 million, of which US$650.9 mil-
lion had been sold, repaid. or cancelled. IFC has been working together with
the Bank tot (i) identify investment opportunities which would best suit the
needs of the private sector in the current phase of Mexico's growth-oriented
adjustment frogram, and (ii) assist the Covernment in reviewing the require-
ments of the country's capital markets, both through economic sector work and
specif!c proposals for venture capital operations. The IFC has carried out
three operations in the motor vehicle and cotton seed business. The provision
of foreign exchange and export production have been the principal objectives
of these operations.



- 41 -
C. lank Stratear
97.      The Bank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were
to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or
indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment; Cc) help
reduce Mesico's urbanlregional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks which
prevent rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of Bank
assistance to Mexico. However, following the 1982 economic crisis and a
reassessment of the Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank management concluded thatt
(a) increased Bank lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be linked to
central policy reforms; and (b),the Bank should play a central role in assist-
ing Mexico's return to voluntary lending by commercial banks. In its new
role, the Bank has intensified and broadened its economic and sector work.
Specific policy reforms that are being pursued through a dialogue with the
Mexican Government cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues,
such as trade liberalization, rationalization of preferential credit systems,
improvement in public sector pricing and investment, and subsidy reduction.
Traditional lending incorporating project- or sector-specific policy issues is
being conducted in parallel with policy dialogue on cross-sectoral or macro
policy issues.
go.      As a result of these initiatives, the Bank contributed to Mexico's
external financing needs in 1986-87 in a very substantial way through
continued project lending and quick-disbursing operations in support of policy
reforms and structural adjustment in key sectors. The Bank's annual commit-
ments in 1987 reached nearly US$1.7 billion, assisting Government initiatives
in agriculture, industry, transport, and housing finance. To lend broader
support to Mexico's adjustment process, the Bank has, with the Board's &utho-
rization, put in place guarantees for the commercial banks' cofinancing and
growth contingency facilities up to a total of US$750 million.
99.      Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for one-third of the nation's population living in
rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending.
The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at: (a) a more
efficient and rational use of natural resources to increase production; (b)
productivity improvements of cultivated lands, with emphasis on the product-
ivity of small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment-generating investments
in rural areas. To support these goals, infrastructure investments in Bank_
assisted projects have been complemented with support services, such as exten-
sion, marketing programs, and credit. The Bank has made 16 loans in FY*80.67,
totalling US$2,638.93 million, for irrigation, rural and agricultural invest-
ment projects, and agre-industrlal and livestock credit programs.  Projects
for irrigation -7habilitation, extension and forestry and agroindustries are
in various stages of preparation. Special emphasis has been placed in recent
years on the development of rainfed areas.
100.     The Bank's long-term policy objectives in Mexico's agricultural
sector are to help the Governments (a) to reluce consumer subsidies and
better target remaining subsidies so that they benefit the truly needy; (b) to
phase out price controls on foodstuffs; (c) to render more efficient
CONASUPO's and other parastatals' storage, processing, distribution and



- 42 -
marketing activities including. where appropriate, privatization of these;
(d) to move towards economic prices for agricultural inputs (e.g., fertilizers
and water); (e) to bring domestic producer prices in line with international
prices; (3) to liberalize, over time, the trade regime with regard to the
import and export of agricultural products and foodstuffs (this includes not
only progress in the removal of prohibitions and quantitative restrictions but
also providing greater access to import activities to the private sector);
(g) to diminish credit subsidies by moving towards market-determined interest
rates; (h) to achieve a sound investment program; (i) to rationalize pric:ng
and promote privatization and efficiency in the sugar sector; and (j) to
restructure and decentralize the Ministry of Agriculture with an eye to
reducing superfluous employment and to having a higher percentage of Ministry
staff actually coming into contact with farmers. An Agricultural Sector Loan
(ASL) has been processed in parallel to this operation in support of the above
policy orientation.
101.     Bank lending for industry between FYs80-87 amounted to US$1,572.25
million, covering areas of small- and medium-scale industry, mining, capital
goods industries development, industrial technology development and export
development. After the 1982 crisis, a US$350 million loan was approved to
assist in Mexico's non-oil export sector. The loan contributed to an inten-
sive and continuous policy dialogue between the Bank and Mexican authorities
regarding: (a) export promotion and trade liberalization policies; (b) admini-
strative and institutional aspects of export promotion; and (c) financial
support for non-oil exports. Based ou the lessons of experience under that
sector adjustment operation and broad economic sector work, a new comprehen-
sive assistance strategy has been formulated to guide the Bank's lending work
for industry. This strategy supportst (a) trade policy reform to move
towards greater uniformity of incentives and greater international competi-
tiveness; (b) complementary financial sector policies to reverse the prolonged
contraction experienced by Mexico's financial system, including its cecurities
market; and (c) measures and programs required to encourage adequate supply
responses, particularly in export promotion and industrial restructuring.
102.     Working towards the objectives of its strategy, the Bank has, in
PY88, processed a US$135.0 million Highway Maintenance Loan, a US$80 million
Manpower Training operation and a US$500 million Second Trade Policy Loan
(TPL II). TPL II disbursed US$94.0 million from the first tranche. Projects
in industrial restructuring include the proposed loan; the Steel Sector
Restructuring Loan that was submitted for Board action on March 1, 1988; and
the proposed Industrial Restructuring Loan (IRL), which is intended to provide
financing to firms undertaking restructuring operations in subsectors or
product lines that are being freed of Non Tariff Barriers (NTBs), price
controls, domestic content requirements, and the like. In addition to trade
and pricing issues, these operations also address issues of private sector
involvement, decentralization, and management autonomy and accountability.
103.     Bank lending for transport has focussed on regional development,
strengthening of institutions, and rationalization of public investment outlay



- 43 -
and pricing policies. Between tYs80-87, six loans amounting to US$752.84
million were approved, including two in each of the following three subsec-
tors: highways, railways, and ports. Additional projects to support similar
goals in the urban sector were undertaken. During FYs8O-87, ten loans were
approved, totalling US$1,263.50 million, in the fields of water supply and
sewerage and urban development, including a first US$125.0 million Urban
Transport Project, which was approved on May 28, 1987. In response to
Mexico's 1985 earthquake emergency, the Bank processed a US$400 million
Earthquake Rehabilitation Project, which the Executive Directors approved in
March 1986. A Federal Highway Maintenance project was approved in October
1987. Additional projects are under consideration in the transport and urban
sectors, which would aim at strengthening the various institutions is the
areas of planning, management, and finance.
104.     The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico through
various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and institutional
reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at courses/seminars on water
supply and sanitation sector management, transport policy, agricultural policy
industrial development and finance, and macro policy analysis.
105.     The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.54 billion as of June 30, 1987. Over 501 of the total has gone
to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transporta-
tion, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure. education,
municipal development, and preinvestment. The IDB and the Bank have coordi-
nated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for the
national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and live-
stock credit, small-and medium-scale industries development, and hotel
development projects. The IDB is also providing a program of assistance for
earthquake rehabilitation and reconstruction, and two loans in the health
sector, totalling US$41.3 million, were approved on June 27, 1986. A loan of
US$100.0 million was provided for a tourism hotel in the private sector in
December 1986. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
approved a loan of US$22.0 million for a rural development project on the
State of Oanvca, which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the
Bank is acting as executing agency.
D. Past Bank Lending in the Fertilizer Sector
106.     Bank lending in the fertilizer sector in Mexico has consisted of two
operations, both of which are completed. The First Fertilizer Project
(Loan 1112-ME) was signed on May 22, 1975 and closed on January 20, 1982. It
financed the construction of two urea plants in Bajio and Pajaritos and an
insecticide plant in Salamanca. The Second Fertilizer Project (Loan 1686-ME)
was signed on May 18, 1979 and closed on December 31, 1983. It financed part
of the development of the new Lazaro Cardenas Site, including one sulfuric
acid/phosphoric acid/DAP/NPK train of plants and a nitric acid and an ammonium
nitrate plants. A Project Completion Report is available on the first project
(PCR No. 5382 of December 28, 1984). The first project was completed with
delays of 21 to 33 months, depending on the plants. The Second Project is now
completed, after a five-year delay. Reasons for delays in both cases were
fairly similar: poor project management organization, associated with the



- 44 -
decision in both cases to duplicate the project facilities on the same or
different sites from other Government resources in response to fast increasing
demand and widely available resources from the oil boom. In the case of the
Second Project, however, execution was also affected by sudden budgetary
restrictions following the 1982 economic crisis and damages from the 1985
earthquake. A Project Completion Report for the Second Project is under
preparation.
PAR? VI - COLLABORATION WITH TEE I
107.     Since 1982, the IMF has supported Mexico throught (a) an Extended
Fund Facility (EFF) negotiated in late 1982 for a total of SDRs 3.6 billion,
covering the three years through December 1985; because of non-compliance with
some of the performance criteria for the second and third quarters of 1985,
this facility became inoperative, with about SDRs 908 million undrawn; (ii) a
special emergency assistance dravihg, for SDRs 291 million, in support of
Mexico's earthquake reconstruction needs approved in early 1986; (iii) an
18-month stand-by for SDRs 2.4 billion, approved in November 1986.
108.     Performance under the stand-by program was satisfactory in 1986 and
the first three quarters of 1987. Final information for December 1987 is not
yet available, and therefore the IMP end-of-year review is still in progress.
Details of the performance on the stabilization program in 1986 and the
macroeconomic framework for 1987 are presented in Part I above. Coordination
between the two institutions has and will continue to be close on monitoring
of the macroeconomic progrim and the harmonization of lending programs.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
109.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
February 29, 1988
Washington, D.C.



MEXICO                                    ANNEX I
Page I. of 
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMEN LOAN
ECOOMIC INDICATORS
MW-SW? POApAtlatim (.1.) 81
1so" PMet  ita    Ia tSo    1838M
A. buma of On". DOWsAtI Peo&aot                       B. OZtAh Pate  (Ipe    iin
(fram anvet pxun s tali                               (fr    stamt puns 4&ta)
1985    197)    198      1985    1986    198p          165-73 197)480 198045    1966    Iwo7
ova". O an.et P o,o  .p.       100.    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.07  1000                  .9     6.      0.8    -.8        1.
Hat ?zAtxitet Tama            4.3      5.0     0.3       .        .      .                 .      .
Au1oa1t~~~~az.~14 4    11.6             8.      9.0     9.0       .              3.1      3.4     2.3'   -3.3
31.1    20.4    37.3    59.5    38.6       ..8.3                    7.0     0.5    -5.3
(ofI&tk Ibmi. ftu*1)         21.0    23.7    23.0    24.7    25.5        ..              .3      6.7    -0.9    -5.4
SetyLOs                      54.6    56.4    56.4    51.2    32.4        ..6.8                   6.2     0.8    -2.6
eaguin  Slai                    -1.0    -1.1    -0.9      5.2     3.6       .                .       .
N~aof am                   9.      8.     12.6    16.1    16.9        .              62,    8.5       8.8     5.2      10.:1
IqaaOf am1                10:.3    9.3    1:3.    10.9    13.2       ..4.3                    9.9    -5.6   -11.3    -0.7
Total gy.iAxesc                101.0   101.1   100.9    94.8    96.6        .              6.8      6.3    -2.2    -5.5       2.1
Toaw GwimA1um                79.2    79.7    72.8    73.6    74.3        ..6.5                   5.9      0.1    -4.7      2.6
htwmte cawpuasti           72.2    70.5    62.0    64.      66.3       -              6.2      5.6    -0.4    53.5      2.8
Gemini covmmimt             7.0     9.2    10.8      9.3    10.0       ..8.7                   7.)     3.5     1.2       1.0
exua omaosi  Xawatom         .21. 7    21.4    28.1    22.1    22.1      ..8.5                   7.8    -9.0    -9.2      -4.6
aOVea Is StIA      ~       4.2      2.1     4.0       .        .       ..                       .       ..     6.4
on"a oom.tS  a1,ift             20.8    20.3    27.2    26.7    23.3    26.3               8.5      8.6    -3.4   -17.2      -1.6
Net Vaster 1                 -0.6    -1.3    -3.2    .4.7    -6.1    -4.4                  .       .
Nat cagent TCfar               ..      0.2     0.1     0.1      0.4     0.7.                       .
Oroae Nattasl SavIng    ..    19.2    23.7    22.1    19.6    21.8              17.4      7.8    -3'.6'  -23.0      1.
In millions of L(Wa             1985    197)   1In0    1985    1988    1987
(at infot 1980pu1oew)-                   -                -        -
GM"e Domestic pzSm           1603l   2758    427       442     4452    4497              6.9     6.2      0.8    -3.8      1.0
taelr  o zq.g             in0     225      537     506      337      ..6.7    12.3    -2.3   -23.4
Tam  o Txai. AMjuato        -a     -in7       a    -268    -46      -61                .        .
ova"e Domestic I..m          15       2651    6276    4360    398      4084              6.9;    6.5    -0.8    -8.6       2.
Cm   agIinl Pt.66m         1508    am2    418    4419    422        4)09              7.8     6.0      0.4    -4.3      1.9
on"a NatimiL Tam             1459    2614    4138    4151    3760    389)                7.9     6.3    -1.2    -9.4       S3.
(1980  no10)-            -----Taflagtma Rates (I ~  )                     -
C. Pains 161..                  1980   1ton      1 19    1985    198      1987          1965-7) 1973-80 1980.5    1986    19m7
Camam  Vitae" (us 64)          100.0   410.2   679.0  1047.7  1859.7  4314.4                4.3    20.3    40.0    77.5    1)2.0
whleaaa1  Pubes (ZM 63)        10.0   402.7   666.0  1033.4  1984.4  4475.8                 4.0    22.3    60.1   89.4    148.0
Tauciot Gm Degflto             100.0   394.8   638.1   984.5  1746.0  4049.0               4.0    22.3    64.2    77.5    1)2.0
hlftLot BVINSliblo  DflLatag   160.0   397.8   638.8  102.0  1919.0       ..3.4                    8.0     7.5     3.4
0. 0~   6isoe1905-7)                                  1973-60          196043
Notes:
GzwAh Ratn (2 V.&.):
Pqolatbos                              3.3             2.0              2.6         Data a the Sa. lom    ZofIoators tabla.
LaborPg.                                .. Yam                                       bsidt folios the dafIrAtlU.mv
Gzaaao NetimI 1m P.C.                  4.4             3.2             -3.7         coinptm of tbe Stmoa6d Table. ud
PiaeCosumptins P.O.                2.8              2.8            -2.9         Standud AttamOmts..       166 Wmatno
sabmai 1.166s data tbr.Lvh the out
r-t ZlaatIabty:                                                                        vemt2y ocuLtetd   leldax yeaw (or
LVOV"a (Gm$1)jIG   (or)                1.0             1.6            -19.5         flaowl peer to the oas" of fLacal yewt
Ibqbinl Sawlie p.aga:                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~ooaatrias). Staff .atlmteoawa be usaA
W03*1106t SWUP VAt*S:                                       if fi-I or gntudr~~m  alem am not
on"e Naganal Sawing                     ....Yst avaIlbleM. The U"e of eat1.eat WA
rawas ammtLo Saws"                     973831.                                      pvlalamewr Boxes shad& be $Mboate6
byt
IU (peula  aswee.w):                      .               3.5             15.9
flare of Total                  1965    1973    1980    1985                                   P - 97sLlUSma  data
AlrLdultau.                  34.7    30.4    26.1    26.6
I66mtxy                      20.7    22.1    23.5    30.9
Sawinee                      44.      47.5    50.4    52.5
loa"                        U100.0   100.0   U100.0   100.0                         ----------



MEXICO                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of5
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOWAN
ECONMIC niDICATORS
Toh=  Idea (10 - 100)I                      VaI*  at CUrSe  Prices (awlla   UN):
B. Hnv.h    4 EPOrts              1930    1I8       194      1915    19861       p      1980    1983     198 94 1go             is"8    1987
Petrloom.                        100.0   186.0   1385.0   173.0   155.0   153.5  9896.0  13514.0  15196.0  14766.0  6307.0   8700.0
Cotton                           100.0    42.4    73.2    38.3    66.9           ..   316.7   115.6   208.2    98.7    72.4          55.0
Coffee                           100.0   133.4   141.9   1.8   2*.04                   422.4   385.?   424.4   512.0   819.0    463.0
Muafactue                        100.0   150.0   192.2   A1.4   223.7   27.2  2651.0  4592.7  552.3  4978.0  7135.7   9774.0
Other eanorts                    100.0   109.1   130.3   121-2   106.4   104.5  277.9  2064.8  2913.1  1308.3  1726.9   1952.0
Total  a     i        ts FQB     100.0   159.0   163.9   162.0   151.2   167.3  1606.0  22312.0 24194.0  21663.0  16041.0  20944.0
F. 1arohaAdia Imports
Consuer Goods                    100.0    17.7    21.9    27.1    21.4    21.9  2449.6   615.8   848.1  108.7   84.4   1023.0
Intezudiate Goods                100.0    49.3  f0.9    70.1    55.4    56.7  11*8.7  5740.4  7833.4  8945.7  7631.9   8942.0
Capital cowd                     10.0    27.        31.1    38.6    30.5    31.2  5174.0  216.7  2572.6  3164.8  2954.0   3056.0
Total )vr9Lse rxports OW         100.0    39.8    48.3    56.6    49.5    50.7  1832.5  8550.9   254.3  13t2.2  11432.3  13021.0
C. TeS  of STade (1900 - 100)    lS190     193    194    198          196   1987P
Marh. _.ot Prie Ide              100.0    87.4    91.9    85.2    66.0         7.9
Ha:h. lort Price &asx            100.0   114.1   123.7   124.0   122.6   136.4              Datan the Ecic IrdAcators tables
;br:=i,e Tas of  adeS            100.0    76.6    74.3    67.2    53.8    57.1              sbwAd folic  ti. definitions ai
e t of th  StaUd Tables aid
U38 aidMa (at emunt prices)                         S6tSand Attacbmmits. 2. irAicator.
-                                          dw~~~~~~~~~~~~huld include data throuigh the smt
S. saEoe of ?.lts                  960     1983    1984    1985    198   6    19S7           recintly 1omlateA caludar yar (or
____ _                 ~        -         -~        -      -             fiSl yea ino aa,of fiscal yewr
Euors of Goods   S S             246    2n79    30156   27624   22           24               eoutria).  staff eatiastes my beuwed
hmadis, (M)                   16066   22312    24196   2166    16041   20944              if fl..l or preliminry actual. am Mt
mon-Factor sawice7                      487      5960    596       5        7270          yet awealeb.. Us me of estimotes anid
Prelmlnry f4gre  should be idicated
laporta of Good   IF             23620    121    109    1838   16307   17W 9by:
Nercbuiae ()                  182    8$1    11254   13212           42   13021
n-Facer S                      678      4140    4115    35         487      4966
p - pr iluar data
Resouzo  81.w                    -2144    144E8    1407      9256    569    10227
Not Factor IO                    429      -9372  -10247    9021   -7449   -69
(Interest per WS)              4598    8134    102t8    9436    832         7959
Xet 0Ar.t Tranfer                  275      302      411    1002       490     830
(wara  eteuces)                     ..       ..       ..
COrret Acott BaLm                -a098     5418    4a41    1237   -1260       436
L=W-Ter Capital ino               774    47"        2451    -400       14     528
Direct Inwta                   211       461      390      491    9g5    2500
Offical Capital      t            ..      ..       .        .
nat LT Lou  (MS dat)           689      23       1603    -361       955    3928
othe Li izdin (Net)          -17       189       4       -340   -1716   -1100
Total 0eh  itm  (Ket)              302   -62       -4542   -356        13    -30
Not 8ert-te  Capitl            5156   -5830    -3527   -1695       1412   -1100
CaitaL FicusN.2..                 0        0        0        0        a       0
Errors  Cd ako"ia.            -3634   -1074   -1015    -          -1282   -1996
ames" in not ar,..                -M      -3250   -2150    23          9      t6600
et Credit  on fl#              -1i      19    U00          610      917      650
Other laseGr, ONOS
( - inicates Urasse)           -       -429    -20    211           69  -n70
As shoras of 0GDP
Resource Balane                -1.2    10.2       8.2      5.2      4.7      8.2
Interet P" ts                   3.3      5.7      7.0      6.1      6.6      6.4
OArret Acooum Belm.            -4.4      3.8      2.5      0.7    -1.0       3.5
-mwrm  Itm-
InaZin&t'l Riser,I, (SU. 16)    290        3913    7372    4906    3670
Rasrs.  ml. Ood (.i1. 0S$)    4197    4789    8011            691    6684
Offical1 X-Ret. (L(U'/sJ )       22.93   120.09   167.85   256.87   611.77  1462.70
irAde Peal ff. x-a Bae 1980    100.00    n.n    8.88   86.25          0    .40    55.s5
CD? (w eILu  of <zUSt)   16331  142736  171m2             17738   127N6   12193S



MEXICO                                       ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSDM LOAN
ECONOIC INDICATORS
Saa eg .8GW  (2)C* 01hhea  (2e.0.)
1. Conslidatd PUUbI  Seotot       1960     1981    1964    1965    19        lSp                196lD - 84        1985    1986    1987p
___t______- -_ - _ _--_ - ___-____
cormen abepta                     26.3      1.8    31.3    30.4    29.3    30.3                   4.1             -5.6      6.2
Om  mt  teM"uz                    24.9    36.7    35.5    36.1    40.5    42.4                   8.3               1.9    21.4
cret smgt Bam,1.4    -4.9    -4.2    -5.?   -11.2   -12.1......
Capital                             ..       ..       .. .. . .
Caita I        _ap tu             -9.      -4.5    -4.2    -3.6    -4.4    -4.5                 -8.5              -8.7    -3.2
0oz11 Delot                       -8.0    -9.4    -4.4    -9.5   -15.6   -16.6                    ..
Hot DimbLusamta (=*  dLlMA)                      Debt Outuanding & Disbuxsed (US$ i1 .)
J. 1xem    Cmptl flot.o           ---~~~-~-~~~--
s  Debt BO a  atu.             19o      1983n    1984    1965   1986e   19170        1980    16       1983     1985    1986      187.
PaMlo & Pub1lcly QIztaad  IS   5139    2365    11             9a    1295    5970   33967   66759   70071    72510   74962    83972
OSoSI Clt.of                    m7      -263      804      686    1372    176        4481     67       7469    8607    10714    13580
ltllatml                     501    -520       670      705      979      943    3189    4201    4830    5754         7029     7972
of &I.& tI                333      178      419      483      648      516    2061    2870    3289        3772    4418      6890
Uleel                       2f6      257      134      -19      393      822    1292    2541    26S9    285i3    3685         5608
PuiLaS  C    t                 4343    2628       353      262      -77     4205   29307   60021   62667   63559   64248    70392
&" axa,                      -52      17      -156        a       -1      181      257      363     205      228      218       313
133a3. 1 ta                 4390    244        309      257      -76     4024    29250   596W6    62462   63331   64030    70079
-t-at. 3m_ dra    LS              1700        0      384    -620    -290    -560        7300   14800   17500   16500    16100    12500
1tal                              6831    235       152       32      1005    5410   41287   81559   8751    89010   91062    96472
De at C6.ait                      -1M     l09    1100        610      917     650        0    1260    2360    2969    4060          4678
Net   -st m  C     al             5u    -50    -3527   -163             40   -3100    16163   10139    6440    5450        6308      3102
TOa iso1idf D    ant of          11869   -246       -8       -755    192       4960   57450   929f8   973n    97429  101430    106158
sad m% lati                       19t       1963    1964    1985    1966      98e           - -s--
__~~~~__                              *                                             Vte
quavf  STtal lAW-M  DM
1. IND as a     Total             5.00     1.52     3.76     4.24     4.85    7.14          Dtot  the 7omb  Indicators tables
2. ML a 2 of Total                0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00          ab.lA foll.. the diuintm   wA
3. IDit+W  a 2 of Total           5.00     3.52     3.76     4.24    4.85      7.14          onmpts of the Stadad TablesC ad
O&ZO of Total LT Det Seraoe                                                                 Stadard Atts.tt. lS Irdtcag
1. DI  as S 4T  tal               2.73     3.07     3.11    4.32    5.80      7.44          d-ld lolide data twXb the mot
2. IDA am X of Total              0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00           utly  opled  alaat 7ea  (or
3. It4IDm  as S at Total          2.73     3.07     3.11     4.32    3.80      7."          fscalt you la tb , of fiscal yea
mmtiam).  taf estumtei   may be used
100-toaot Rvatio                                                                             if ftal os prelAaia  1atmls ar mat
yet evellable. 11m um of estf m:e  aiA
1. Ll-Tm  Osbtl2Iptaz           176.2   300.06   290."   3222*   413.81   341.93            preladiAay figues dwoud he indcated
2. Dr  Comdt4wrts                 0.00     4."      7.4    10.75    18.45    16.56          byt
S. Sbot-Tm Debtdl3ort            68.91     7.30   21.36    19.73   28.       17.75
4. LT+S4T DW DKapoe            2V4.93   342.02   322.89   3.70   460.92   376.28
p *peii,data
am3tor4w  Rating
1. Lag-T1m tobtI00l              22.      37.1u    51.12   50.19   6n.a    79.
2. Dr CtmditP                     0.00     0.68     1.38     1.67     3.19    5.84
3. U'bzt-TainDbtIW                8.67     7.10     3.76     5.07    4.96    2.54
4. LT+3   SS OIGW                30.63   65.13    56.84      4.93    83.20   85.20
Debt Suwit
1. Pubie  a   _ingoaed LT       32.08   40.04    34.93    36.90    39.50
2. Pueste _o_-Qmgenabaed LT       5.89    5.40    14.26   11.25   U.53           .
3. Toea LS Debt  8slne           37.97   45.4    49.19   48.15   51.03
4. Sf R1A _eaea + SNg Ow.
5. latezest 0dy enST Debt
6. Total (1D2l4f6  ltt.)         46.90   45.4    47.20   49.30   56.70    50.40



ANN    I
Page 4 =*5
STATUS-OF SANE SAOUP OP14ATIOUS 1N NIXICO 1/
*Sf..8StUSS**U*S*UU,S.SC- S--.--.-.---
A. 8t*aSs*et Of Bonk Leose
As of SePtSabsr 80, 16671
Ius illifenl
--------.-----_-----_-_-------------------.---_-_------.-------__------------___-_
Fieasc                                                 As*e*t Lees       30410-
Leo. Me.   Veeer    Sorroer         Purpoee                      Ceacltet1eeis    bursea
--------.-------------------------_-.----_---_.---------__-------------------__---
70 tles*  tulat  diesbured                     4,0oo*g1
170$-$    1676       NAPINSA        Iterrgtion                          96.00       s8.1t
6-6        tOO1660   NAVISSA        Ierrietion                          70.00        60*.0
1618       10St      $ANCO63A       Votet  *upply                      166.00        44.48
1660       1661      e43093*5       Urben Oevelt*e-et II               14.00         56.04
6048       l93e      NAPtNSA        latugrated guetl Oaf.              173.00        63.36
3146       16o6      NAPIBAS        Capitot Goods Industry             186.20        70.73
61s4       16        NAPINSA        Plttltion Contolt                  26.00         11.01
6114       1o6e "     ANOSRAS       Urben Engineering                    6.60         8.07
666        1668      SAFISSA        Ag toultursl Nerketing             116.00        46.45
goal       less      6A30ORAS       Third Voter suppty                 t00.30        56.*"
g6t6       1SOt      NAPINSA       Thied s6/Ned tnduetry               17t.00         6.08
I33s       13s8      SAUCONEXT    export Oowotepoent                   660.00        66.65
6466       1664      IANOSRNA       ifgheapa                          600.00        100.31
6460       1664      SAUPESCA       Ports                               76.SO        68.70
el6e       l6S6      NAPIUSA        Chiapas Ruest Raeds                 t6.00        t6.66
6StS       1SSe      NAPINSA        Chitpes Arise Deo.                  s0.00        77.64
go6a       1SSS      SAFINSA        So/med Scale Nining II             106.00        91.S6
6eUS       1oss     XNAPISA        Vwoctionat Education                 61.00        6t.3S
6376       1SSS      6A3033AS       Rotleepe V                         300.00       666.09
6s60       1666      NAVINSA        Agricetturat  Credit               160.00         6.66
t616       1666      SANOSRAS       Los-loose  Noveig I               150.00        108.65
666        19s6      NAFIN          Proderisth II                      106.00        36.47
6s6$       1666      IANCOSAS       Earthqueke Rehob.                 400.00        116.63
63S6       1SSS      6A1ORAS       Nunicipet Strengthening             40.00        37.s6
t6ee       19S6      SAVOSRAS       Sotld heets Pilot                   te.00 6.66
3746       1667      9AXCONEXT    Trade PoltO1 Loon I                 e00.00         10.66
6746       166?      lAPIN         tIdustrilt Recovery                 150.00       117.76
6747       197       RAfIN         Tehaoletogp Oovalopmt               46.00        86.87
6777       1637      lOCE           Espes Devatopeont It              660.00        168.16
36a4       1667      UANOSRAS       Urben Treneport                   16t.00       1t6.00
8367       1667      lAPIN          Agriculturat Credit               400.00        366.6t
665$ S/   1667       lAFIN          so/med taduatrios IV               161.00       106.00
2660       1967      lAFIN          Agerculturals xtension             60.00         17.41
TOTAL                                          6.709.91
Of *hih has baen rapaid to the SOak           6,461.65
Totat n0w Outstoading                          7.366.66
Asecat aotd                   .8414
Of shich so boon repaid   36.34                    0.00
Totat nos hedt by Sank  2/'                    7,630.66
Total undisbuased                                           39477.76
1/   Tha sgetae ot the projecte   hsted in Part A Is In a  epaetrted report on
att &esk/IOA financed projests tn axeeution, chich is updated taica yeorLy and
cirsultted to She xaseutive Diractora on Aprit 60 oned Otaber el.
6/   Prior to sachanga adjustmants.
S/   Not wet affaetiva.
LearnStatus,IKINIXCAI. ...J7
EIAre.eloaLA6CO
Oetsber 6t6 1367



ANWU I
c-0111                                                                           Page 5 of 5
S.  Ssteset .:PC 3s..sseeaet
45 et  Septeeb c fog 1057
(usef ea*bt i tas
Piseel                                                                       SPIliset Apprssittel 
--------- *  o-----w*--------------------*----*---w----------------- *-    -* ----------------------
veag                 0515.r                         Type *f $stees*             Itp           Lees*      T1t.t
lo50/so         3eissSpiel peff'es5
setps. S.A.  ai                    204*64vtol s 5ttepset           0.       0         0.5
1*55            $Plt*% 4. posses *.A.  a1             A.,. legims f4te**Ol             S..         0.5          g.m
1551            Asese latleP  $.4.  S/               Tltes  rfpil.                     o.o         0.5          g.e
less//5/S,   peadit.ese Uaeet*pPs. S.&.   1           steel                           51.4                    0* 3.7
less           Taboo ds  L eae de Sl*s                 $Steet Pipes                    0.e         0.5         o.r
lots             setate del It*s  $...  */            141m asepbta                     Gs t.7 e  0.0
1154/I          Sed.etPte dot S1lePPt., lA.           oCmsstPetts. equipment           S**         5*g         5*g
170             Steeps dot set**  */                  Ices are Ctltai                  0.e         t.a          I..
1571           got****  *at.*..** *.*.  */            Test lee                         0.e         s.0        ase.o
1673            Steest*ss ds Ptept P40tsitse.*
a.&. de c.v.  *a                  P,tp   * Peter                    S      o     .e
tSlS/S          aSseetee Wpasse.a. S.A.               ses$S                                                   la.e   es..
10,46/SI1      Sees.. Arlo$** asstl                   Teat.                            0. as                    a..
1st7/PS         Usatis. s.a.                          ste*tes    eel*t                 5.          3.0         5.3
SS7S/StISs     Pepeles Pseesee.. 5.A.                 Putl  *ad Pepet                  5.0        tO.7        as.,
1575           lesferttet*S   Nat-****e . s.A.        petsp*besteots                   5.5        10.o        is.0
1*57/SI        *est Cate-  Ist lstsos.
*.A. *s  6.1.                     T*Vptee                          4.5          e.o         4.3
1575/IS        l-epsse Tets***  l.A.                   easst                           i.0       last.       175.5
love           Casteesepes  se.teretee   S.A.         Slesttesl ft's a  eCbtP          0.e       1s.0         as..
laos            Zsd.etpts sealetel, 5.4.               etrist* Sesed                   0.0        Ra.0        *S.0
lose           Vidtet  Pce is Nales**  P..            P*1st Sl                         0.0       114.5       aa4..
$.A. de 0.1.                      sisleg                           *.o       118.o        Itu.6
l5o1           COtsltstess Cosst*ee. 5.4.  S/    Pttp *ad Poper                        0.0        s4.0        04.3
Iasi           Cstrpsea*is  *OPet*deetPi.l
S.A. ds 0.5.                      Agri-li**ee.e                      g         a.0 e4.
ases                     f*sdtt e  Pestltt1  e/       Capitat  aee#* psl*eeteg         0.0       100.0       sos..
1054            Seteee  l.A.                         &As. cbele                        1.4         0.0         4.4
4814           Prsessees. S.A. is C.1.                Agrl-Se***ees*                   O.          8.0         3.5
tlas           P'eae       ste.e, Sed.att ets
Stessemee. 9.4. de o.v.           Putseebeateels                   e.o        as..         Is.*
lose           Olutlete  p Peapt de Secasgo.
*S.. do 0.1.                      Putl sad Paper                   1.5         18.e        11.1
ISIs            &g$sVea Posee  I (LIlA)               Too. a Prets Pseseesteg          0.1         1.1         0.0
less           satf"9es                               Cbeetoal * postpeeesstst        0.5          3.0         3.5
Ise$           Apes**                                  es***&                          o.e        40.8        40.0
lOS?       S~~pice.                               Auto Aessaeblp                  5..0                     5.0
Total  rea cs-seatesas                                               53.3       75.5        sato
Loee Ceso.aiiasies, Tepetssaes*..
**epeassst  go4 S*Lee                                             30.0       537.4        610.5
ltaet C-Ssitsssts Seo  Rote   by IPO                                 em.w          8.1      1;0.0
*u-.s*.C....us... 0...*...f...
Totat Utladtaeed Ilsteltdte  pacsttpaasatel                            5.5        18.7        19.5
s ..u.e..    . ...u.u.Zs* .........
5/  Is.0res ts insies o ar   tee  tulipld    s         5eiaased. upittus *tt,
easwt@@*      t 1.
*   sactes ie s.S*S  esptteiiase  latr*.s*.
Sevatese.. 2PC1SlC.  . . .870
55seslt ssLaSb



ANNEX II
Page l of 2
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare loan:          About one year
(b)  Loan prepared by:                               Government (policy
aspects) and FERTIMEX
(investments), with
Bank assistance
(c)  First Bank mission:                             November 1985
(subsector mission)
Cd)  Departure of appraisal mission:                 April 1987
(e)  Negotiations completed:                         February 1988
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  June 1988
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs                 First Fertilizer
project
(PCR No. 5382)
(12-28-84)
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Disbursements of US$6 million in a special account as loan effectiveness
and related disbursement conditions are fulfilled (para. 76).
Section III - Conditions of Effectiveness and Trinche Release
(a) Condition of Effectiveness and of First Tranche Release:
(1) Signature of the FERTIDEX Convenio (para. 40);
(b) Signature of the PEMEX/FERTIMEX Agreement (para. 48).
(b) Conditions of Second Tranche Release:
(i)  Implementation of the 1988 plant closure program (para. 41);
(ii)  Completion of the distribution study and of a resulting action
plan satisfactory to the lank; and withdrawal from retail and
consignment operations equivalent to at least 10% of total sales
of solid fertilizer in 1987 (para. 42);



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
(lii) by March 31, 1989, the weighted average fertllizer price has
increased by 2.9Z in constant US$ (of December 1987) over the end
December 1987 level (para. 45);
(iv) by March 31, 1989 prices of ammonia have increased to at least
48Z of the export price (para. 44);
(v) prices of sulfur purchased from domestic suppliers are in line
with the export price (adjusted for differences In quality)
(para. 44);
(vi) imports of fertilizer have remained free from quantitative
restrictions and other non-tariff barriers and their tariff
structure has been maintained at December 15, 1987 levels
(para. 47);
(vii)  the first ph&se of the organizational restructuring study has
been completed and FERTIMEX has exchanged views with the Bank on
its recommendations (para. 49);
(viii) the 1988 investment program of FERTIMEX has been implemented and
the 1989 investment program has been jointly reviewed with the
Bank and the Bank has been satisfied that it meets the agreed
investment criteria (para. 51).
The above conditions are expected to be met by April 1989. Further
satisfactory progress in line with the respective established calendars for
(iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) above would have to be shown If the second
tranche were to take place at a later date.



AN=  III
Page 1 of 7
Ministry of Energy, Mining
and Parastatal Industry
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Mexico D.F., February 25, 1988
Mr. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Office
World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
In relation to the Fertilizer Sector Restructuring Project, attached
please find the document which describes the Policy lines for the Reconversion
of the Fertilizer Industry in Mexico.
Sincerely yours,
Signed:                                      Signed:
Ing. Alberto Escofet Artigas                 Lic. Francisco Suarez Davila
Undersecretary of Mining                     Undersecretary of Finance and
and Basic Industry                           Public Credit



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 7
POLICY GUIDELINES FOR TEM RESTRoCTUrIWG OF
THE MEXICAN FERTILI2MR INDUSTRY
Introduction
The main function of the Mexican fertilizer industry is to ensure
adequate and timely supply of this input to the nation's agriculture.
The program of conversion of this parastatal industry dealt with in
this document is designed to enhance its efficiency and ability to compete in
the pursuit of this basic objective and thereby lend its full support to the
development of the Mexican agriculture by fostering wider and better use of
fertilizers that increase farm productivity.
In accordance with that aim and with the Federal Government's struc-
tural adjustment strategy, the program of industrial restructuring of FERTIMEX
provides for modernization of FERTIMEX on its technical, productive, commercial
and administrative activities, as the basic areas which will guide investment
decisionst for transforming its structure and operations.
In addition, the restructuring process involves financial restructuring
of FERTIMEX to enable it, within the medium term, to operate in a context of
financial self-sufficiency as the basis of autonomous operation and growth
through economic and efficient management of its resources.
To achieve these aims, FERTnMEX, acting through such mechanisms as the
Federal Government may establish for the purpose, will coordinate its actions
with other sectors involved in fertilizer production and distribution, basically
the raw materials producing enterprises, the marketing channels, and the agri-
cultural sector as end-user.
1.    Broad Lines of The Fertilizer Industry Restructirina Polics
The FERTIMEX conversion program provides for simultaneous execution of
the following measures:
-    closure of obsolete plants and temporary importation of products
needed to make up for those closures;
-    rehabilitation of existing plants where it is feasible to improve
andlor modify the processes;
-    completion of ongoing projects and incorporation of new production
facilities to replace the obsolete plants and meet the growth in
demand;
-    restructuring and modernization of the distribution system;
-    redressing of FERTIHEX's financial structure through coordinated
measures concerning prices, cost reduction, and the taking over of
liabilities.



AMNU III
Page 3 of 7
These measures are complementary and interdependent. The various
aspects and stages of the conversion process are thus closely interrelated. The
process will therefore have to be implemented integrally, avoiding lags in
implementing some activities that could affect the execution and impact of
others.
The execution of new projects is thus essential in order to maintain
mTIMEX's productive self-sufficiency and enhance its efficiency and competi-
tiveness. This improvement, supplemented by the savings that vill be obtained
by closing uneconomic plants and restructuring the distribution system, is an
important element in restoring mERTIMEX's financial health.
2.    Modernization of Production
2.1     Closure of Plants.
As part of the restructuring process, FERTIMEX has prepared a tentative
program of plant closures which provides for the taking out of operation of a
total capacity of 2.27 million metric tons, 1.66 million relates to fertilizers
and 0.61 million to intermediate products. To date, capacity closures total
728,000 tons of finished products and 429,500 tons of intermediate products,
which represent 50 percent of the entire program. The remaining capacity of
1.12 million tons comprises the plants scheduled to close in the period 1988-89.
In addition to the scheduled closures, the plants operated by mERTIMEX
will continue to be evaluated and monitored in order to determine their economic
and financial viability in the future.
The plant closures program is being executed in conformity with the
Federal Government's industrial restructuring guidelines.  To enable this pro-
gram to be firmed up, decisions have to be made with respect to execution of the
projects to replace the capacity lost through closures. These have to take
account of interaction with the rest of the chemical industry, the impact on the
employment levels deriving from labor negotiations and the ecological and
general operational aspects, factors which could cause the closure of certain
facilities to be brought forward or deferred.
Technical and productive modernization of the industry requires that
the plant closures be paralleled by execution of the investment program drawn up
for this sector so as to ensure effective replacement of obsolete productive
capacity, proper utilization of the labor force, and the maintenance of
production self-sufficiency in the future.
The industrial conversion scheme provides that the urea plant projects
of 495,000 t/year each will be carried out since these projects are necessary to
replace the plants that will be closed and in addition meet the investment cri-
teria defined in this document. They will be constructed in conformity with the
current norms.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 7
2.2     Investment Decision Criteria
In addition to completion of the projects under construction,
FERTIMEX's investment program for the period 1987-95 provides for a series of
new projects to strengthen its production capacity and supply the growing
fertilizer needs of Mexican agriculture.
Implementation of the new projects w'll proceed only if they show an
adequate economic and financial return and, to this effect, a general criteria
will require that they meet a minimum economic internal rate of return of 10
percent. Exceptionally, however, this rate may vary, depending on market
conditions and investment purpose.
3.   Modernization of Marketing
3.1     Foreign Trade
All fertilizers, which are classified under 18 headings of Chapter 31
of the General Import Duties Tariff (Tarifa al Impuesto General de Importaciones
-- TIGI), are currently exempt from customs duty and official price control, in
line with the Government's trade policy objectives.
3.2     Fertilizer Prices
Fertilizers are priority products under the Mexican Government's food
supply strategy. The fertilizer price policy therefore seeks to strike a
balance between securing financial self-sufficiency of FERTIMEX and ensuring
fertilizer supply and consumption. The policy takes into account the need to
promote the efficient use of fertilizers in agriculture as a vital factor in
raising productivity levels in line with the agricultural development strategy
and the short-term operational programs.
In conformity with the general policy being followed by the Mexican
Government with respect to the prices of goods and services supplied by the
public sector, it is planned to implement a fertilizer price policy that will
ensure that the industry achieves financial self-sufficiency within a period of
five years through the application of gradual price adjustments tending toward
coverage of total operating costs, including production, distribution, sales and
administration expenses and the financial costs associated with development of
the industry.
The plan to achieve financial self-sufficiency of FERTIMEX will be
based substantially on the benefits of the industrial restructuring program,
with particular emphasis on the cost savings resulting from the closure of
obsolete plants, the execution of new projects to replace them under conditions
of enhanced efficiency, restructuring of the distribution system and enhancement
of administrative efficiency -- all aimed at avoiding the industry's current
overcoats being passed on through prices.



AMin tII
Page 5 of 7
in order to eliminate the economic distortions caused by the support
accorded to the industry through pricing of certain raw materials, specifically
in the case of ammonia, account will have to be taken in fertilizer price policy
of the gradual adjustments that need to be applied to the price of ammonia to
make amonia production profitable. The ammonia price policy will be based on
return of 8 percent on the ammonia plant investments, that level being
equivalent to the present cost of the resources on the international market.
This program of ammonia and fertilizer price adjustments started in
December 1987 with very substantial increases, which, to a considerable extent,
have permitted the elimination of previous price lags.
In accordance with the rules that the Federal Government has estab-
lished for 1988 for prices of public goods and services in the framework of the
Economic Solidarity Pact, fertilizer prices, during the first two months of the
year, will be maintained without change and, in the remaining months of the
year, will increase in the same proportion as the goods and services which
conform the basic basket established for the purpose of the Government's pricing
policy.
From 1989 onwards, and during four years, fertilizer prices will
increase in real terms by 12.3 percent per year in order for the industry to
reach financial self-sufficiency, as previously defined, in 1992.
A similar process will be followed for the price of ammonia purchased
by FERTIMEX from PEWEX, that is, increases in real terms Oz.-ring the period
1989-1992, so as to reach in 1992 a level which permits a profitable operation
of this production line. Such level is estimated to keep a similar proportion
to international market prices as the prices of most basic petrochemical
products.
In this way the fertilizer industry will gradually reduce its operating
deficit and reach equilibrium by the end of the adjustment process, succeeding
in covering both its operating costs and the financial expenditures associated
with its development.  Under this plan the industry will be able to generate
current savings equal to the depreciation in fixed assets, enabling it to amor-
tize the liabilities contracted for its development and in addition to recover
the capital invested over the economic life of the new facilities.  In addition,
the price levels proposed for 1992 ensure a yield of 8 percent on the capital
Jnvested in the new projects, equivalent to the financial cost of the resources,
on the basis that the projects would be financed in equal proportion out of
loans and capital contributions which would be amortized and recovered, respec-
tively, over the useful life of the investments.
The price adjustment plan as described above covers the entire opera-
tion of the fertilizer industry up to the point of primary warehousing. The
goal of financial self-sufficiency therefore implies coverage of total costs
through prices, from the production stage to the primary distribution stage, in
which official price control will be maintained. In addition, the price policy
of the restructuring program includes the costs generated by the temporary
importation of fertilizers to cover the production shortfalls due to the plant
closures but also foresees that national self-sufficiency in nitrogen and
phosphate fertilizers will be restored through the execution of new projects.



AMEX III
Page 6 of 7
To avoid speculation in fertilizers during the stage subsequent to
primary storage, policies and mechanism will have to be put in place to ensure
that fertilizers are marketed on terms suited to all sectors of the country.
In that connection it should be noted that the fertilizer price adjust-
ment will have a substantial impact on the agricultural sector, particularly
among producers of basic crops that are subject to guaranteed prices, and this
could reduce consumption and consequently crop yields. To prevent that happen-
ing, the Federal Government will study and implement appropriate measures of
support to farmers.
3.3     Distribution
In the medium term FERTIMEX will concentrate its participation in dis-
tribution in 120 primary ("regulatory") warehouses where fertilizers will be
sold wholesale and retail. In addition, FERTIMEX will move toward the manage-
ment of bulk products in areas where this is desirable and will gradually with-
draw from consignment sales.
These strategic measures are supplemented by the investments FERTIMEX
is making to strengthen its storage infrastructure and improve its distribution
efficiency by installing mechanized systems for handling solid fertilizers and
the construction of primary warehouses, anhydrous ammonia terminals and port
terminals for fertilizer distribution.
Given the complexity of the situation of the agricultural sector, modi-
fication of the present distribution system poses serious difficulties, particu-
larly considering the economic and social impact on agricultural producers of
withdrawal from consignment sales and the consequent increase in prices changed
in the secondary network.
For implementation of the proposed strategic measures it is considered
necessary to conduct a comprehensive in-depth study of FERTHEX's distribution
and marketing systems, leading to concrete and viable proposals for their
restructuring and modernization. The study will focus on the problems of each
agricultural region of the country and will tailor its recommendations to their
respective characteristics. It will also consider the coordinated participation
of the public, private and social sectors in the secondary distribution network
and concentrate the intervention of FERTIMEX on the first stage of the
distribution process up to and including primary storage. The study will
include, among other things, recommendatis3s concerning retail sales by FERTIMEX
in poorly-served ("marginal") areas, withdrawal by PERTIMEX from consignment
sales, and the timing, regions and mechanisms for implementing the changes in
distribution policies.



ANNE III
Page 7 of 7
4.    PIEx-Flr?MI     Mxteement
PEMEX and FERTMEX vill conclude an agreement defining the procedures
for ensuring adequate and continuous coordination in the following areas:
(a) planning and execution of ammonia-urea projects, adopting an
integral approach to plant size, location and interaction, in
accordance with the area of competence of each enterprise and with
the relevant legislation;
(b) joint review of monthly production targets at the plant level;
(c) evaluation of compliance with production targets and preparation
and execution of joint action programs to resolve problems
affecting the operation of the facilities;
5d) coordination of their maintenance programs so that they may carry
them out simultaneously and take nmximum advantage of idle periods
to perform the work.
v.    Financial Restructuring
In support of the FERTIMEX restructuring program, during this year the
Federal Government will enter into an agreement concerning the operations and
financial rehabilitation of FERTDMEX.
The agreement will provide for the Federal Government to assume appror-
imately 88 percent of FERTIMEX's documented bank debt and set forth the qualita-
tive and quantitative bases for ensuring that FERTIMEX develops in the short and
medium term with a sound financial structure, involving the reduction z-d
possibly the total elimination of operating and investment subsidies, Ahe
agreement will also set forth commitments by FERTIMEX with respect to
production, productivity and sales policy and will incorporate strategies with
respect to pricing of fertilizer and raw materials.
6.    Reortanization of  LERTI?
Under the industrial restructuring program, PERTIMEX will adjust its
operations to accomplish the goals that the Federal Government has set within
the plan for development of the parastatal enterprises.
FERTIMEX is undergoing a continuous proceis of adaptation of its organ-
ization to the changes demanded of it by its own development. In addition, as
part of the process of restructuring of this parastatal enterprise, a comprehen-
sive study will be conducted to help improve its organizational efficiency and
prepare it for the changes stemming from its restructuring in the medium and
long ternm.
February 25, 1988



PIIILIZt SW0 AoDUSD£w? LOUN
Iltrtix  f Xo_f .  _  r  and hotim
Action TSken by the                       esuree to be                           bhitorable  etione
Structural Issues                            Covermeat and J3a1R61                           TaMkn                                   end hior.n
A. ertitrlit Pricint
Presently, uttera cotry-w             v ery etignifeeat Increase ia    1-. Ietilcer list prites s at a sx-120        1. Ut price  to iocreae tn rel
fertillser list prit    seett o-    tartilmer pWOes on flsea  r          ware_ous  irni.                                terms by 555 io five ypea  (over
ralIb a  statio  eloset to            is, 19?. repre eetimg * 39a                                                       end A eof geCbet pries In constant
farmer. Pnrs currently pey            icreare in real tarn  over                                                         st). including 12.3S an 1al
ctr lertilisrle Is" then So           ee September levela.            2. Pries incraeaed to *nsure fti      ial          Increases over the period
percent of tbhir l port parity                                            * lt-eftfiietey of J8STUKE within              190-M12  or wntil prices e*nwre
value.  In 1"7, these prica                                                5 yws. Yeal insternily geereted to           ftinnil elf-suffictiecy of
coeored only about 600 of                                                  Cove followin  ceet                           9331186 or rea_h Import  rity,
P33 6's prodction, distribution                                                                                          whtchever caez   sa_es.
nd administrative costs. lot                                              (a)   rtoduction cots iclsive  of
ferl  suibdy estimated about  M0                                          depreciatin on bett eeisti          am and     2.  "at term ince"e of tt leat
milion t  19"6. kiata  pacit                                               facilities. tOei  iOWpt pried so              2..9  over end-Dtcember M7 leele
policy results in lack of p    r ICthat    n                                                pay  its ltll pro tio        a e etto  of _        t
signals for efficieny, lack of                                             cost (tse  a as import pricing).             rD
trAnspaCrny Of subidies, ee lack
of massesmt aetoomy for                                                    (b)   ittributiot cota ilusivelvt  of     3. Iimition of @.ver_.ent cash flow
P3,O1861.                                                                 depreiato  of syst_n iotretttructure.          trawetr  to  U3         by 8992.
(c) * einistrtive overbheds.
(4)  time i  Cbarge.
e)      St rertw  am equity On new
saveatemets.
3. Upsr limt on price iecreass set by
internatienal prtes or cap on, samuel
pecestg p rice iscaeer    , wichever
is loe  r.
. Dtetribetors  llowed to add distribution
coats ed prit mwrsgns to
fewtilier-liat prics (ex-1t
arehouses) to determine act 1 fesoeta
prim.  U   _subidits poidd to
distributoer   r f rears bacd th 
given to 13311l8  drtig the trsitit4
to finaenial elt_fufiieie¢y.
In aid-lW? P3116  poid got o. l              ni pl o   ietes increasd     Ammia subsidy to he pogreively            1. SpectfSc perecentag  targets to bh e   
_tne  (all pur4eed iro  Pt2W              tree W 27 per ton in  ay        eliminated. Amma& prim  to increase           racebd by the eW of eah "ea
oe-third of Its export Value               £"7 to 0964S per too to        to $ox eo pert vt wvlue by t 1-M92.             rieg tne pertid I1O-129.
resuting ti an tinrect subsdy of          December 1907.                                                                                                           M
about 001130  dllt100 Is AUG.                                                                                       2. hie prt2ce  to hoe reahd 4S 
*eti_ted to Incree to eb*t            2. Phospte rock end sulfer                                                        of expen price ould he a
us0370 mllon by MI92.  Meta               aligne  to lter"tioael                                                       condition of seond trinh         
are lack of inAntitV  far       to        prite". No"r. sulftu                                                          release.
meuntai iats plants And for               prtes controlle  on part
ru1n       to economine   nia s           of  conaeic Solidarty                                                     3. Prle of sultwr to e at expert
paet,                                                                        parity a comitiea  of seond
trsachereeae



Structura t lUe5
Action Token by the                    ftastres to be                          Nonitterble Acttion
coernment and FtUTINZI                        Taken                                   nd Titing
C. Production Structure
282 of ftnidhed product capacity       Twelve plants witb a total        Closure of 0.9 dillion toes of               A plant elosore program, witb e
and II  of Intermediate plants are    capacity of 0.9 million tos       fintshed produet capeAty and 0.2             yeroly timetble for implemets
econodmealy  nvisable. due to age,     of intished prodocts nd 0.4       dillion tons of intermadiates                tton. IMplementatton of the
raw  atertals base or bad              of intermediates hews bean        during 1988 am  1989.                        platt closure progrm for 1988
location. Viability of nother 8S       clsed down                                                                     would be a condition of seond
of finished product an  202 of                                                                                         tra0h  rels.
intermediete capacity depeWing on                                        Peedible clogure of an additional 0.2
teasbtilty of alterattie                                                 mllion tons of finisbed product sd 1.0
Industrial marketn aNd int                                               miltion tone of tntermdattesn 1989
sourcee.                                                                 ad 1990 it alternatiwe economical nun
or soures of raw ateriale cemot be
D. Distribution Structur                                                     foud.
bxceseive cotrol/involvemN t of         Deision to redue                Lberalisation of distribution             1* Stedy to deftoe detaled plan of
FWTISI tn distribution aetivities       3TDU ' involve_mt from          throgh  the el*mition of eontgn-              action. Firat phas of study
down to retal level throgh             control of 2,00 sales             enot ystem ad proposd chge n i                etisfactory to the Dank to be
congmesnt #"tem gad direct             points to less then 120           priteg system. Competition from            cmpleted by eod Jou  1988.
sales.                                 wsrebouse. Decreae in             pritate sector at retail level;
C_sstgament sales from 69S       withdr_aw  of.UTINI from retatl           2. laplemenetton tn *reas not
tn 1982 to about 402 tn          operations.                                   requiritg furthbt stodies
1987.                                                                          will start by the end of September
1988, while resional studies of
otber arese conttna. All
studies to he completed by end
Dbeeshr 1988.
3. Complete Implentetion of
Coverment policy by the enD of
M99.
4. Cmpletion of study and actual
withdrawal from consig    t ad
retail sle  equivalent to at leat
102 of solid fertilUter gaes of
197 would be conditionS of se
Rattonlization of wholssle            S3 existing warehouses             Carrying out Invstment program to         1. 71  IrTImm  warehouses completed by
distribution infrastructur  nd        already identified as              neritta  terminats and regulatory             end 1989 expected to reglate
cost retions by higher use of         regulatory. ad 4 under             warehoses.                                    852 of constaption (the balane
bulk trnsport/etorage and of          constrution,                                                                     by other agente Sa  Flal1N3  plant
coastal shipmet.                                                                                                       warehouses).
2. One third of fertiliter trfaeported           . 
in bulk by land and/or seo by 1989.
B. twert  iberalization                                                                                                                                                 GD
Although imports are not subject to  Imports treed fro,                  Imports to continue to be free of             Imports remntnS free of                      r4
non-tsriff barriers and have  ero    quantitative retrtetions in         noV-trttff barriers end  ero import           now-tariff barrtirs and with tartft          o
duttes potential Itporters canot    line with polleie  upphorted         duties to be  aintained on all  aJor          strcture of Decemet 15. 1987                P*
compete with FBRTINK at current      by the Trade Poliey lon.            fertitizers so that coptettie                 would be a condition of secod- 
domestic prices,                                                         pressure from imports establisb               trnceb release.
international prices as the upper lmtt
for doestic prices.



Structural  ssues                                  Action Taken by the                        Measures to be                             .onttorable Actions
Covernment and 1317t1EX                           Taken                                      and Ttdins q
F. Links Detween PDMM and FERTIIKM
Far  _otsa and Urea Production
Heavy ineffittency penalties                                              1.  Joint plant-by-plant review by P1n1 and  1.  Agreement between PEORI and
Incurred trom separate operation                                              FER tNKX to tdenttfy need for nd typ            Frtwx reviewed at negottattons;
and planning of       tonnt and urea                                          of remedial action.                             its signature would be a condition
plants by P1UE1 and FIOR'IM                                                                                                   of effeettweness.
respectively.                                                             2.  For existing plantse  operating
atandardsa procedures and coordination
rrangements to be speled out In
*nagreesent between PEM1X and FIRTtEI.
3.  NWe tinestments tn *noentlurea              2.  Revines of the tnvestment Progrme.
complemes to be economically and
financially viable as per seak
standrds.
C. #31111'. e Ortgnrsetion
Ovee-centralisation of decd don         1.  Coat centere eatabliabed         In parallel witb actiona underwa.             1. Term  of Reference for a reorganice-
mkting  lack of autonomy and                to 1987, clear accounting        to carry out a general reorganisatiom            tion study were  greed upon at
of bustnew orientation                      of costs at plant level          study In line with new long-term  strtegy        negotiattons.
and separate accounting of      study to review various option.
dietributton activities.         includtngx                                   2. Ftrst stem (review of option  end
selettion) to be completed by end
2.  Decentrsliaatton tn 1987         1. The establismbent of profit centtrs/         December 1988 for submission to
to regional levels of *            subidtartees;                                 131Tt111eX  management, Govecrwnt
nomber of accounting,                                                             nd 8ank). Cosultations with the
administretion,                 2. Staftfig levels; salary levels and             anok by end February 1989.
forecasting and control            performance rewrd system;                     Completion of first phase and
functtons.                                                                       consultations a condition of second
3. Furtbet improvement  tin cost                tranche r.leaae.
3.  Divaetiture/privetiv ation          accounting/transfer prteing system.
of tbree subsidiartee.                                                        3. Second phase to be completed during
4. Fodsible furtber dtvestiture of              1989 as per timetable, no later then
non-fertiliser operattons or joint           end of September 1989.
ventures with private sector.
ventures ultb private sector.             4. Reorganization as per timetable.
H. Financial Restructuring
1ERT3NEX unable to servite              Dectsion taken to convert 852            Capttaltiatton of debt contitngent on        Final draft Convento reviewed at
Its debt, totalling about US$1.0        of this debt (US$880 dillion)            preparation and stgnature of a              negottattona  tte signature would
billion, met of which ti tn             Into Governmet equity.                   restructuring contract ( Convenio`)          be a eondition of Effectiveness.
foreign currency.                                                                betwen the Government and FERTtIEX,
iacorporating all policy ehanges, the
agreed-upon medtum-tere tnvetstmnt
program and efficiency targets for
FIRTtMI.I 
in



Strutural Issese                               ActIon takes by the                     Ibeare  to be                          Honitoreble Actonw
Ooveriet Mad VnIl                             Taken                                  and ?im
I1- lEltIlU Iavestment Progren
In the paet. capacity expaneon       1. fti.rity given to              1.  fte  overmeat and 1MTl will only  1. Yearly joint Sank/VUYIUM  rew
the prl_ry goal, often                   reetructorig/ratioal-             unertake loveetats that *re              of Invstment prCOg .
Irrespective of econntc/                isatin oavtwteate and to          ecoticlly and flnnietlly vwible
financial viability; large               conatruction of ae                (i.e.. with Idni .ntereal rates of 2. Netbdolog  criteria *nd
delays In execotio  of                   capacity only In replace-         retura  of lot), with exceptions an      aeipione usd to be
taveateents.                             sent for plants to be             using a methodology acceptable to the    acceptable to the  enk.
closd down (nitroges              Sent.
only).                                                                 3. Tbese teatructuring iavetmo
2. UBElTU   to carry out ln prtorLty        dll be filn_ced through this
restructorinJrehabilitation             project.
inVesatmtm.
4. Satisfectory rlevw of the 1989
3. NM Investments In urea production        tnvastunt proram woold b  k
to be asoesed jolitly with u-           condtion of secod tr_en   releas.
Strom *_nte plaats.
ad'



_w ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NN ef X ¢| d S
fmlm -s  7Mi LOW
Urn ~   ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          9
gaji, ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    7 I  56t0 196              '                                             14)           1     t
tBjiol                                        3ld         imta     O                                                             *s *7               l
Vajatitoa 1                          495.000~~~Pit  1996 Go
Faasie 2                                         6950,00      196             C                                                       C                                * 
Gmz9                                               75.000e    1900                       *                      J
000.10,I                                            0.000"5   1959            *         *                                    a                                         *
laFtIM  caa..vo .                                               97 
00atw rS      2                                   20,OQ.0     1#1             *                                 a*s
qslar.I                                           596,000     17161"          a   .                                                   *a
I3    _a                                           3,000      1969                                                          * k
4. StaoIna"ca                                   10.000    19419                                                                 
v_ t7~~~~~~~~~~0,0 M7 *   t
41.1*j kmrmh..,bta                                                            **                                          .. 
sm*oow      1971            *                                 a                                 a
gao a.i. 901861                                    625.00     1967            a                                            a                                 a
Lane mLswV00a                                                  n
)-AmSo (X_)_                                       X00 "s7t                   .           
?oaja,is..e ti    l   pdm0*)0.000                             1969a                                                        a 
QOr taimaIa                                       6U.500      197V            a                                 a                                 a
Isrot                                           =.OSD*    19""9*                                                                                       . 
eljt                     *                        uo,so  *9*  "
10t50*  0.9m *0.000    1jO9                                                  *                                                                                        a
KauIie*1".000                                                 196361a                                                                        
C      om                                           42,00     1960            a                                 *0 am
ft       C Uo.i)                                     .0  2    £097            a                                 a                                 a
I. io
Laftgamleg.                                       60.000       9
Wiitla. I 2      ,o.oi1                            o          1962            a                                              a                                 a
UioatUlaa 3 -   30.000  1            10.000      1966
wule   S    SSO.OJ                                            1976            a                                              a                                 a
aativ. (I                                          6 *nStO) !I  *n,#0  169                                                   *                                 a
lao.  _.d     (2 a 460.D)                       1.3SD,00      1967                                                           a                                 a
.ole"   t"                                                    , 1             a 
5._os.o1 -   u.oiii                               696.000    m1973                                                   y*
Qm"antasa, 2 *6GOOM                                           1963            C                                   C
s80t tico 2      so: AO,Ot                                    to"*                                                            
tMati.'e at__
2.  00      e
Utses. U          (a   a 12.)                     966,000     19                                                             a *
tlonstwoS  (I  3 172.500)                        OMAN5        19690                                                            
"notem 2 - 660                         6.00      165                                                  0 
PSostlil., (2    960)3N1634                                                                                                  
rojerit"!/ a S 1                              lit         noa                          t e
5atlo. (2 a 5O.a0)                                t0.0        1961.14
*batoena                                           55.000      9u                                                                                                      t_
logne caldc 370.00                                        no
5e.titlen(2a                                      817, "0000  1M6-a 
4.~. 
km to %la% am    of Oman  psobeto.
O11 It Pneos at brtodt o tmtarle tadd a.    6m ia llp toa. .
j nsu 915..11, to *"--a. .11  I1Otgd gm-on" a  d. -  tim  biosiam  .0 Wm,"s sqsl.las pi..
bmUufm pie"oat 01851.
st .pluas. viab1. W5 msglal.
blat    ul1*    t a1am  salb 1.1 plead.U
-S U    1&  *1f  cnl_*m  do tn   of aw 1ttU d, dtd _a one zLztei 16.



ANNUl V
IIiU    SICm  LWe
Plnt Clo   Pro - 1986-89
Production                        lchcbtd                             YTea of
Ste                            Products         Iatsrmdlates        Closure        Status
Cuan.tlan
hAxydrou  _uona                                     22.000             1916         Closed
Sulfuric Aid                                       247,500             1986         Closed
Amoniut  Slfte                 235,000                                 1986         Cloed
Single Superpompbate           120,000                                 1986         Closd
Nfle                            60,000                                 1986         Closed
Guadelalr
Sulfuric Mld I nd 2                                 143,550           1988
Sulfuric Acid 3                                     198,000           Decsle  postponed till
closue of Quertro
A1md quipbct plant,
Triple Suphsrphopbate           40,000                                1986          CM"l
A_uoni. Sulphate               276,700                                1988
gmn Luis Potosi
Single Superphophate,           62,500                                1986         Closed
NM5                            "66,000                                198
Sulfuric Mid                                        60,000            1987          Closed
Phosphoic Mcid                                       11,000           1988
Ani.in Sulfat                  200,000                                1989 /
Nintitla
Urea 1                          54,500                                 1987         Closd
Sulfuric eld 1 and 2                                100,000            1987         Closed
Ure #1                          56,000                                 1987         C1Osed
_maim Su_fat                   160,000                                 1987         Closed
Quretro
Sulfur-LAcid 1 nd 2                                8S8,000            Dkcision postpond till
closur of AS plant !
Asniam Sulate                  594,000                                 1989
singl Suprplophate             300,000                                 Decision postpo_d till
closure of AS plt 
Pheophoric Mid                                       18,000            1989
btal                      2,375,200            1,664,050
Plena  al y closed             786,000             429,500
PIns to be closed 88-9         938,700              176,550
Decision to be postponed  /    500.000            1.056.000
Tot"l                    2,226,700           1.664,050
a/ Vales"   tietfcory longte  coctract cn be siged prlor to the date of cloas  tto the purchese of
by-product Sulfuric uAd.
f For the Gadla1jara MA  Queretaro Sulfuric acid pleatst until closur of Queretaro _molu  ulate
plnt ad outcome of negotlatiLon  with industral uere (nen-fertillsar =m), expected tn 1989; tot
the Costescoalcoe emomi  sulfate plalts depedlig on outcome of negotistions mtiond ia footoote
I'.



Notes to Annex V
Table 2
A. POSSIBLE USE OF SULFURIC ACID CAPACITY
When the Guadalajara and Queretaro ammonium sulfate plants are
closed, it may be possible to find a market for substantial part of their
upstream sulfuric acid plants. (Guadalajara #3, of a 198,000 ton capacity,
Queretaro #1, of 198,000 tons and Queretaro #2, of 660,000 tons). These
three plants are recent (they started operations in 1983, 1978 and 1983),
they are economically sized and their design is modern.
Out of a total capacity of 1.1 million tons of sulfuric acid for
industrial (non-fertilizer) use in Mexico (excluding FERTIMEX), 732,000
tons are based on the burning of sulfur and are spread out among about 15
plants. Most plants, howe,rer, are old and of an uneconomic size and,
depending on transport costs from either Guadalajara or Queretaro, it may
be more economic for the concerned industries to purchase the acid from
FERTIMEX. Preliminary discussions between FERTIMEX and potential users
already indicate a reasonably firm interest for about 270,000 tons. In
addition, FERTIMEX is already selling about 250,000 tons of acid to PEMEX
and CFE.
There is thus a chance that outlets can be found for about
600,000 tons of acid (including 100,000 tons for the Queretaro SSP plant)
or more if other markets can be developed. This could justify maintaining
in production at least the large Queretaro plant (#2). Depending on market
developments, it may be economic to maintain the other two plants as well.
By the time the Queretaro and Guadalajara ammonium sulfate plants
are closed (1989), market and economic studies and negotiations with
potential consumers will have been completed. Depending on results, the
decision to close down or maintain the plants will be taken at that time.
It was agreed that, if financially viable (non-fertilizer use) markets have
not been serviced by June 1989, FERTIMEX will close down these plants
within a year. If closure cannot be avoided, the Guadalajara plant would
be closed down first, followed by Queretara #1 and than Queretaro #2.
B. COATZACOALCOS AMMONIUM SULFATE PLANT
It may be economical to maintain this plant in operation if a
long term contract with one of the copper mining companies (at Cananea or
La Caridad) can be signed for the supply of cheap by-product sulfuric acid
from their smelting operations. It was therefore agreed that this plant
will be closed in 1989 unless by then a formal agreement has been entered
into with other suppliers for the long term supply of by-product sulfuric
acid at a price such that the total cost of production of the plant, per
ton of ammonium sulfate, with ammonia priced at its export value (FOB US
Gulf or FOB Caribbean) is inferior or equal to the import value of bulk
standard ammonium sulfate (CIF Coatzacoalcos from US Gulf). The FOB prices
for ammonia and ammonium sulfate will be averged over the previous
six-month period and derived from prices quoted in specialized publications
of wide international circulation (such as Green Markets). The price would
be periodically revised to take into account changes in the above values.



ANNEX V
Table 3
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT WAN
Fertilizer Distribution by Channels
(Volumes in thousand tons)
1975            1980             1982             1986
Volume    %     Volume    X      Volume   Iz    Volume    X
Direct Sales
Banrural                        801    34      1,024    29        745    17     1,378    30
Own Agencies                     60     3        377    11        298     7       919    20
Ammonia Clients                 193     8        -      -          97     2       276      6
Azucar S. A.                    176      8       255     7        224     5       200*    4
Subtotal                 1,230    53     1,656    47      1,364    31      2,773    60
Consignment Sales
State Enterprises               -      -         865    25      1,885    44       735    16
Official organizations           98     3        154     4        170     4        30      1
Commission Agents               827    35        269     8        254     6       T84     4
Cooperatives                    204     9        578    16       638    15        872    19
Subtotal                 1,129    47     1,866    53      2,947    69    1,821    40
TOTAL                         2,359   100      3,522   100     4,311   100      4,594   100
* Estimated
Source:  FERTIMEX
1986
mwmmmswnu ml                                  um
(shadea area indicates consigsnent sales)



ANNEX V
Tale4
Distlibutton of Warehousing CaUacitv - 1985
(Capacity In thousand tons)
Number of            Total                 Average
Warehouses          Capacitv               Cnacitv
A.  UTIHE
own S                  35                S24.0                   15.0
Rented                 77                419.0                    5.4
Tm                943.                    -F.-4
B. Comsdsidon and Service Agents
State Enterprises      332                738.4                    2.2
service Agents          62                380.5                   6.1
Cooperative.           305                605.4                    2.0
Ng9      9      1724.3                     2.5
Total A + B              8a1              2.667.2                    3.3
Total Sales                              2,757.0
Average Inventory                          995.2
Capacity Turnover                            1.0   (12 months)
UIventory Turnover                           2.8   ( 4.3 months)
C. UNRAL !/
own                    59  )             681.2                   2.0
tented                287  )
Total Sales                               1,406.9
Capacity Turnover                             2.0   C 5.8 montb)
Inventory Turnover                            n.a.
D.  Total A+B4C             1.157             3.348.5                    2.9
Total Sales                               4,163.9
Capacity Turnover                             1.2   ( 9.6 months)
Estimted Inventory Turnover                   3.0   (4 months)
3.  Plant Storan             -                  650.0
1. Total DtB                                  3.998.5
Total Sales                               4,673.0
Capacity Turnover                             1.2   (10 months)
BEtimated Inventory Turnover                  2.5   ( 5 soutbh)
*/  8Scluudig fintshed product storage capacity at plants, estimated
at about 650,000 tons.
b/  Excluding BANRUUAL, official organizations and asmonia sales.
ji   host of  hieb have  aultlple uses.
fources PERLtT X



ANNEX V
Table S
EXCO
ETTILIZER SlCTQR_ &JU$TNMNT LMAN
Warehousing Capacity for PrimarY storage
(to thousand tons)
Number of                  Average
Warehouses    Capacity      Capacity
A. Existing Warehouses in 1987           W
FERTINEX                              45          699.0         15.5
Service agents                        12          429.0         37.8
Subtotal                           57        1,128.0         20.0
Projected sales 1987                            4,730.0
Capacity turnover                                   4.2 (2.9 months)
Average inventory turnover                          8.4 (1.5 months)
3. To be constructed under the Project
FERTINEX                              14          200.0         14.3
Total AMB                                71        1,328.0         18.7
Projected Sales - 1990                          5,000.0
Capacity turnover                                   3.8 (3.2 months)
Average inventory turnover                          7.5 (1.6 months)
C. Estimated Plant Storage (finished product)            650.0
Total Primary Storage (A+3+C)                      1,978.0
Total Capacity Turnover                             2.5 (4.8 months)
Average Inventory Turnover                          5.0 (2.4 months)
aI Including those under construction.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
The Investment Program and
Supply/Demand Balances
1.        The objective of the investment program in the subsector is to
achieve an optimum industry structure in the early 1990s, by (a) rational-
izing the distribution infrastructure of FERTIMEX to allow the implementa-
tion of the Government's distribution policies and the reduction in
distribution costs; (b) supporting the rationalization of existing, viable
production plants to permit their operation at maximum efficiency; (c) to
construct that new capacity which can economically replace the plants which
have been closed-down and meet projected increases in domestic demand. The
corresponding investment program and its rationale are further presented
and discussed in this Annex.
A. Rationalization Investments
2.        Priority has been given to the required rehabilitation/rationali-
zation investments In production and distribution in support of the
restructuring program. On the iroduction side, although small in amount
(US$15 million) rehabilitation/rationalization investments in those plants
which are economically viable associated with improved measuring instru-
mentation and controls, should allow those plants to operate at optimum
efficiency and generate significant savings in energy and raw material
consumption. These investments do not include the necessary major modifi-
cati ns to the Pajaritos phosphate complex, which require prior in-depth
studas. On the distribution side, urgent investments are required to
complete FFRTIMEX's infrastructure in a limited number of large, wholesale
regulatory warehouses and spheres (for storage of liquid ammonia for direct
application), so that it can divest itself of downstream operations,
abandon the consignment system, and reduce overall distribution costs by
relying much more on large bulk movements to a limited number of
locations. In addition, the maritime terminals program, consisting of
relatively limited infrastructure investments in seven existing ports, is
perhaps the most important element in reducing overall distribution costs
by permitting large-scale, economic use of coastal shipment, thereby
relieving pressure on the highways and railways systems and the existing
port infrastructure. All the above rationalization investments in
production as well as distribution are part of this project.
B. New Capacity
(a). Situation and Prospects in the World Fertilizer Industry
3.        The world fertilizer industry is currently suffering what must
be its worst recession ever, reflecting a depressed world agricultural
industry which has lowered demand and prices. Demand in developed



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 8
countries has declined in 1985/86, essentially as a result of depressed
farming sectors and changes in tile agricultural policies of the US and the
EEC, in particular the US Farm Bill, which has resulted in a 8-9% decrease
in US fertilizer use in 1985/86 (there was virtually no change in
consumption in Western Europe). It is expected that demand in the
developed market economles will not regain its 1984/85 level until about
1989/90. Demand in developing market economies, however, has continued to
grow at its historical rate of 6% and centrally planned economies at
between 1% and 2%, and these trends are expected to continue. Between
1985/86 and 1991/92, it is expected that fertilizer nutrient demand
worldwide will increase at a rate of only 2.3% per year, distributed as
follows between groups of countries and nutrients:
Projected Growth Rates in Fertilizer Demand
Nutrient
N          POR         K<o
Developed market economies          0.5%          0.6%        0.0%
Developing market economies         5.4%          6.0%         5.6%
Centrally planned economies         2.8%          2.0%        3.0%
Total world                   2.7%          2.5%        1.9%
=~~~~~ =
These percentages apply from a low 1985/86 base and therefore indicate that
demand is expected to remain sluggish over the period, comparable to the
relatively depressed rates for the period 1980/81-1985/86 of 3.6%, 1.7%,
and 1.2% respectively for N,P and K.
4.        There is at present surplus capacity in all types of
fertilizers; this occurred as a result of demand developments mentioned
above and of the large capacity build-up which occurred during the 1970's
in anticipation of higher demand (25 new plants on average were being built
per year during the late 1970's, which came on-stream during the early
1980's). Extensive rationalization in the industry has been taking place in
the US, Japan and Europe since 1982, including significant permanent plant
closures. Significant capacities have been idled as well, including 2
million tons of ammonia in mid-1986 (0.8 million tons of which in the US).
In the US (which account for 60% of world supply of phosphate fertilizers),
15% of the phosphoric acid capacity is idled and the remainder is operating
at reduced capacity.  Surplus world capacity of nitrogen today is estimated
at about 3 million tons, or 4% of consumption. Surplus capacity of
phosphatic fertilizer is also about 3 million tons of nutrient, but this
represents 13% of total capacity and 10% of consumption. Surplus capacity
of potash fertilizer is about 4.5 million tons, or 16% of capacity and 19%
of consumption.



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 8
5.        Taking into account projected increases in demand and existing
capacity (including idled capacity) and firm investment plants, projected
supply/demand balances are projected as follows:
(in million tons of nutrients) 
Nutrient     85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92
N             3.31      3.01     2.42      2.40     1.39     0.07    -0.98
P205          3.19      2.94     2.53     3.75      3.57     3.13      2.54
K20           4.85      4.16     3.20      3.10     3.73     3.72      3.37
Thus, there will be little change in the world fertilizer situation in the
next several years and a surplus situation will continue for all fertili-
zers and fertilizer raw materials. The excess supply for phosphate and
potash is expected to continue until well into the 1990's. In the case of
nitrogen, however, the relative surplus is much less than the other
nutrients: the net surplus by the end of 1987 was only 2.5 million tons
out of a total ammonia capacity of about 90 million, or less than 3%.
In order for supply to keep in balance with demand after 1990, it is
estimated that twelve new worldscale plants will be required to come
on-stream per year by that date. This does not take into account the fact
that 20 million tons of existing capacity will be 25 years old or more by
that time, requiring significant additional replacement or refurbishing
investments. Since very few plants are under construction or planned at
the moment, it is forecast that a very tight nitrogen supply situation will
develop by 1990, driving prices up significantly during the early 1990's.
6.        International fertilizer prices are characterized by their high
cyclicality, and are at present at their lowest levels. Recovery is
expected to be slow for phosphates and potash, but as explained above, more
rapid for nitrogen. The graphs on the next pages show international prices
of urea, Triple Superphosphate (TSP) and Potassium Chloride (KCL) since
1960 and Bank current projections in constant 1987 terms. For nitrogen, no
major price increases are foreseen in the next year or two, but it now
seems unlikely that sufficient new capacity will come on stream in time to
avoid sharp increases in prices after 1989/1990.
7.        At today's severely depressed prices, producers are happy to
cover their cash costs. For urea, these range from US$50 per ton to US$200
per ton, and no new major expansion is taking place. As prices recover,
only cost-competitive nitrogen producers will be able to construct new
plants and earn an acceptable (10%-15%) rate of return on them. A new
export-oriented plant on a greenfield site or a site with little infra-
structure (ports, railways, roads, social infrastructure), will be
Justified at the projected prices only if very low gas prices (less than
US$1 per million BTUs) compensate for high capital costs. In countries
where gas is relatively expensive (that is, if it is at fuel oil equiva-
lent), new plants cannot be Justified for exports by but may be justified
for the domestic market if built at substantially lower costs on already
developed sites.



AMnNE VI
Page 4 of 8
DAP - Fob US Gulf - Bulk
700  .                           Constant 1987 teems
600 i4
500 -
400-
200                          J                                                       I
1960       65        70        75        60        85 87   90          95       2000
KCL - Fob Vancouver - Bulk
Constant 1987 tewms
140 -
130 
120-
-0                                                                       S
so                                                              'S
70 -
70
1960       65        70        75        80 ..      8581$7'  90         95 23000



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 8
UREA - Fob Western Europe - Bagged
Constant 1907 terms
700
500 
400
300
200                                                               ---------
too
190 0 I              o0        7s      o80  uI  e1    so               95       2000
TSP - Fob US Gulf -Bulk
700                             Constant 1087 tams
600 -
I500                            1-
1960       65        70        75        o         85 87   90          93       2000



ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 8
8.        With respect to phosphates, the trend worldwide has been towards
vertical integration of rock mining and processing, and new phosphoric acid
plants based on imported rock are unlikely to be economic again at pro-
jected prices, except in certain special conditions (para. 15). Even in
countries which have established rock mining and processing industries, new
capacity additions are unlikely ir the medium term as new production from
nearly completed plants (2 million tons capacity) coming on stream in North
Africa will add to the present surplus. No increase in phosphoric acid
capacity in the US is planned for the next five years as supply will exceed
domestic demand by about 6 million tons.
(b) Prospects for New Capacity in Mexico
9.        Supply/Demand Balances.  Out o  a total crop area of 21 million
ha, only 13 million are fertilized. In a recent documentsJ, FERTIMEX
estimated that, based on the recommendations of the Ministry of
Agriculture, in order just to achieve the production objectives of the
Government's four-year agricultural program (1984-88), an increase in
fertilizer use of over 900,000 tons of nutrients would be required, that
is, a 53% increase in four years, or a 12% annual increase3/. At
historical consumption growth rates (6Z per annum), it would take 6-7 years
to reach these goals and prospects for further growth still appear
significant, particularly in rainfed areas. Actual fertilizer use in
1985-86 and projected use of nutrients and products for the period
1987-1995 are shown in Table 2 of this Annex.
10.       In 1987 Mexico was just about self-sufficient in nitrogenous
and phosphatic fertilizers, (it was in deficit for potassic fertilizers
wv%ch are not produced in Mexico). In the future, In the absence of
replacement facilities for the plants which will be closed down, and if
demand of nutrients grows at about 5% per vear, the deficit is expected to
increase to about 9% of nutrient demand in 1990, increasing to 26% by
1995. Imports are expected to reach about 200,000 tons of nutrients by
1990 (about 440,000 tons of products).
11.       The following table summarizes the projected supply/demand
balances under a demand growth scenario which assumes a somewhat slower
demand growth (slightly less than 5%) than the period 1980-85. It also
assumes, that the plant closure program is carried-out as scheduled and
that no new plants are constructed (except for the completion of the
Pajaritos ammonium nitrate plant):
1/ Programa Nacional de Fertilizacion - 1984-1988 - FERTIMEX.
2/  Assuming that doses applied on presently fertilized areas would
increase from 120 kilos to 160 kilos and that 3.5 million ha out of the
total unfertilized area of 8 million ha would be brought under the
program.



ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 8
Supply/Demand Balances
(in thousand nutrient tons)
Demand Growing at:
4.7% per year
N       P205        K20
1987          +4          +2          -54
1990         -226        +73          -50
1992         -323        +18          -63
1995         -586        -76          -85
12.       Total capacity closed-down and to be closed-down amounts to
378,000 tons of N and 108,000 tons of P205. With the coming on-stream of
the new Lazaro Cardenas phoe;\ate complex, the deficit in P205 which
existed prior to 1987 will be,ome a surplus until the early 90's. All
potash requirements will continue to be imported. The Nitrogen deficit
would thus increase sharply, equivalent to 1.5 to 2.0 worldscale urea
plants in the early 90's (1,500 tpd, or a combined production of 415,000
tons of N at 901 capacity utilization).
13.       The Investment Program.  In spite of abundant resources in
fertilizer raw materials (phosphate rock, sulfur and natural gas), Mexico
is not among the lowest cost producers. This is because its resources are
either limited or expensive to mine (phosphate rock), have an attractive
export market (sulfur), or have a relatively high value in alternative uses
(natural gas). With such a raw material base and in a context of severely
depressed international prices and slow recovery prospects, new plants in
Mexico would not today nor would be potentially competitive on export
markets. Some could, however, be competitive on the domestic market under
certain conditions, which are summarized below.
14.       With respect to nitrogen fertilizer, given international price
prospects, the economic viability of new plants is critically dependent on
the value of natural gas (the major feedstock), and on capital costs for
new ammonia and nitrogen fertilizer plants. Natural gas in Mexico is
mostly associated with petroleum production, its availability is thus
dependent on crude oil extraction rates. Given its potential alternative
use as fuel oil replacement, the opportunity value of gas in Mexico is not
today below fuel-oil equivalent value (US$2.5 per million BTUs for a crude
oil price range of US$17 to US$20 per barrel). At that price new nitrogen
plants may be economically justified for the domestic market only if they
are built cheaply and quickly on already developed sites; if they are well
located relative to their (domestic) markets; if they are operated
efficiently; and if international prices recover as expected by 1990. The
medium-term investment program includes the completion of an ammonium
nitrate plant already well underway in Pajaritos, and the construction of
two world-scale urea plants. Firm plans; exist only for the completion of



ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 8
the Pajaritos ammonium nitrate plant (to be financed under the loan) and of
two urea plants under construction in Camargo and Lazaro Cardenas In
replacement for closed-down capacity (para 12). These two plants of a
total capacity of 450,000 tons of N would come on stream in 1992 and would
reach full production by 1994.
15.       With respect to phosphate fertilizer, with prospects for recovery
significantly worse than for nitrogen and the expected surplus In Mexico,
it is unlikely that construction of new phosphoric acid plants capacity
will be economic in Mexico for a long time if based on sulfur (with local
or imported phosphate rock) even for the domestic market. One exception
might be if phosphoric acid production for domestic use is based on cheap
by-product sulfuric acid available from copper smelters located in the
North-west part of Mexico, close to the border with the US. Further
feasibility studies are underway to confirm the viability of this option.
Given the projected surplus of phosphate fertilizer until 1993, an
investment decision is not required until 1989/90.
Country Department II
Trade, Finance and Industry Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
February 1988



AMR  VI
Table I
FgiTILIUR RBSTREiCUUING PROJECT
Tentative Medium-Term Investent Program - 1987-1992
In 1986 Real Tersm
(US$ ullion)
Total                                                            Total
Cost      1987     1988    1969       190      199l    1992    198-92
ComsletIon of
Prolects under Construction
Completion of Lasaro Cardenas                  50-LAC     6.8       6.8      -        -         -        -       -          6.8
93-LAC     7.5       7.5      -        -         -        -       -          7.5
Nitric Acid/Amsonium Nitrate - Pajaritos       99-IST    40.4       1.0     13.5      13.5     12.4      -       -         40.4
Wareouseing Program (15)                      100-FgR     6.8       6.8      -        -         -        -       -          6.8
nna Terminals (6)                            105-OR     9.6       7.2      2.3      -         -        -       -          9.6
Product Handling Facilities - Pajaritos        74-IST     4.8       4.8      -        -         -        -       -          4.8
Gas Scrubbing - Pajaritoa                      90-PhU     1.5       0.8                _        -        -       -          1-5
77.4     34.8     16.6      13.5     12.4      -        -        77.4
Prolects under Preparation
Tratning Center - Lasaro Cardenas             122-LAC     2.6       2.6      -        -         -        -        -         2.6
Plant Rebabilitation Investments                It/A     1614      -         5.5      5.5       S.4      -        -        16.4
Maritime Terminals                            115-P1U    25.2       1.0      4.8      5.0       S.0      5.0      4.4      25.2
warehousing Program                           121-PUR   34.8        1.0      8.7      8.7       8.7      7.7      -        34.8
Amooniu Terminals                             120-AMN     8.1       -        2.7      2.7       2.7      -        -         8.1
Polysolfur Pollution Control                  109-SAL     3.8       0.7      2.5      0.6       -        -        -         3.8
C-margo Urea                                  106-CC0    65.0      -         5.0     21.0      26.0     13.0      -        65.0
Lazaro Cardenas Urea I                        107-LAC    65-0       -        5.0     21.0      26.0     13.0      -        65.0
220.9      5.3     34.2      64.5     73.8      38.7      4.4    220.9
Projects under Study /
Revamplng of Pajaritos P205 Complex             N/A      10.0       -        -       10.0       -        -        -        10.0
Upgradng of 25 Warehouses to Sulk Handllng               15.0                         5.0       5.0    ,..j2      -        15.0
25.0       -                 50      *=50                -        25.0
Studies/Training
Reorganisation Study
Planalng Improvements                          N/A        3.2       1.0      2.6      0.6       -        -        -         3.2
Project Preparation    I                                                      _        _                          _
IOTAL                                                   326.5      41.1     53.4     93.6      91.2     43.7       4.4    326.5
/   Inelusion of tbeea projects In investeent progrm  is highly tentative.  Investmnt dclsion will depend on the
results of feasibility studie  and econolc/flnancal viability and demand prospects.
/   Using by-product sulfuric acld from smelters.
N/A: Not available.
Notes  This pr8ram only Includes projects whoo  economic viability
has been confired or la reasonably likely.



uinn.uL u3  a                  ule 2
ltp 1 of 3
Fatllin  Swl, and Dom  Projectia   - 1985-1IS95
(to tba1_   UN)
oImo Projactim -o/
In thb==   two of Prawta
krodot                          1985     1986     1987      1988     199     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995
Riftopwatashta                            tta
Iaham   m      ian               264      321      309      337       351      365      380       395      410      425       440
A1hi  nitrate                    66       107      134      250      210       300      40        470      490      490       490
E.1wim enfIt.                   1m      1s59      1539       30       990      4        450       450      450      450       450
Wrma                            1170     132      139       1482     1660     2032      2071     2198     234      2S5       2690
rMabtatol             3292      31       331      3199     321       3147     33U      3513      3672     3876     4070
single sqft ast                  3        273      230       230      20       230      230       230      230      230       20
Triple a_wowq_lt                 307      424      349      303       370      39       390       390      390      390       390
D      _ia   b ate              300       230      332      411       397      432      490       551      615      684       755
Wl's                             412      349      402      410       410      410      410       410      410      410       410
subtol                1323      1276     1313     1359     1407      1462     1520     1581      1645     1714     178S
Patawgic
Potals1ms ulfate                  19       19       19       28        30       32       34        37       39       42       44
Pot-v- w lerlb                    39       47       42       40        47       55       64        72       82       92      103
Subotal                 58       66        61       69       77        87       98      109       m 134             147
=L                    4673     4541      4685     4626     4764      4696     4959     5204      5459     57a      6002
Inu thxmd two of Istriats
I                     1285      1359     1366     1427     1499      1581     1668     1760      1857     1959     2066
P205                   400      406       419      438      460       485      512      540       570      601      634
Q20                     99       94        99      104    1109        115      12       128       135      143      1S
total                 179       19       184      1969     2067      211      230      242       256      2702     285
ftvbtb rate p.a. (%)            4.5       0.3      4.7      4.5       S.0      5.5      S.5       S.5      S.5      S.S       5.5
wera pntrltmntett (               38       40       40       43        43       46       46       47        47       47       47
Avarqp grintb rates In       d for nutrmnta Ct per  mn):
1975-85       6.5      6.0      7.0       6.3
1980-5        5.5      6.0      6.0       6.0
1965-9        4.8      4.7      4.2       4.7
-.1 Awmn   tbat  zinta  &mod for   1t Iof c1wi-  low comosWition
fertl    r plait  In daifu  taIm1d  bta oamtrAtUi   f_rt ili.



FE    I   SCT  Awu.M    WSI                                    Table 2
P2of 3
F      etiIIw Suly ad Dimd Projoot    - 198S-1995
(in tbhmmad twos)
3- Ikmest1c Probductin 
In tbUmd toes of Products
Product                                 196      1987    1988    1989    1990        199l    1992    1993    1994    1995
Actml  Actual Ata
Anbydrous  a                            321       309     337      351       365      380     395       410      425     440
lmiou nitrate                            107      160      250     260       300     440      470      490       490     490
Ijzim  sulfate                          1519    1463    1130       990      450       450     450      450       450      450
Urea                                    1252    1336    1410    1480    1480    1480    1480           1480    1480      1480
subtotal                      3199    3270    3127    3101         2595    2750    2795    2830    2845         2860
Pbomietic
Single auerhate                          293      225     230      230      230       230      230      230      230      230
Tripe  _u2p orpbaft                      262      238      250      370      390      390     390       390      390      390
Dlinium pjibhate                          86      490      530      590      590      590     590       SO       590      590
Nmp's                                   299       285     380      410      410      410      410      410       410     410
subtotal                       920    1238       1390    1600      1620    162D     1620    1620    1620    162D
Potamic
Potasaluasuf*at                           0         0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Potaemiuchloride                          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
subtota                          0        0        0    *0           0        0        0        0        0        0
mmA                           4119     4508    4517    471        4215     4370    4415    4450    4465        4480
in tbmwalod tons of nutrioets
U                     ~~~~~ ~~1284  1370  1410    1451     1355    1414    1436    1455        1468    1480
P2)5                            257     421      440      549       558      558     558      558       558     558
12D                              48      46       61       66       66       66       66        66      66       66
total                          1569    1837    1911    2065       1979     2M7      2860     2D79    2091    2103
Orowth rate p.a. (%)                             17.0      4.0      8.1    -4.2       3.0      1.1      0.9      0.6      0.6
."Grerqmtrimt  tmst(It                             41      42       44       47       47       47       47       47       47
Smotb rate p.a. (%t)                              9.4      0.2      4.1   -10.3       3.7      1.0      0.8      0.3      0.3
-.1  NIOImg Plat cl~as a m            a as  wcty siditome   pireap fair the ooq1et1am
of tim Pajaritos laim nitrate plant, and that exitIng plants operate at
leat at 90% of casp ty.



VRuT    So= RDIBI  LOW                                          Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Fertiloer SuKal and Dhwd Proectis - 1985-1995
(in tb1md tons)
C- SuW Y1jAm1 Uslano  (ton  of nutrients)
m6       1987     1 9       98       198 9    1S,1     1992     1993     19        1995
Ictmi l ctosi
Iltrmgen (3)                              -35        4      -17      -8       -226     -254     -323    -401       -1       -56
Pboqbates (PM2)                          -149        2        2       89        73       46       18      -12       -43      -76
Potamb (12D)                              -46      -54      -43      -44       -50      -56      -63      -70       -77      -8
total                          -230      -48       -58       -3     -202      -264     -368     -483     -611     -747
aas  of nukrent deam                -13       -3%      -3%       0t       -9t     -11%     -1s%     -19%     -23%      -26%
D- Production from gm Capacity Proposed in the Investment Program
rea Plant - L[zaro Carduna..                                                                     120      182      2D5       205
Ueam  Plant- Cmrgo                                                                               120      182      205       205
subtotal N                                                                              240      364      410      410
E- SuWly)Dmound Balanc, vith planned
-- ecpacity
1                               -35         4      -17      -48     -2Z6      -2S4      -83      -37      -81      -176
P205                           -149         2        2       89       73       46        18      -12      -43      -76
K20                             -46       -S4      -43      -44      -50      -56       -63      -70      -77      -8s
total                          -230       -48      -58       -3     -202      -264     -128     -119     -201     -337



ANNEX VII
Page 1 Qf 9
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Fertilizer in Mexican Agriculture: Current Status and
Possible Impact of Proposed Price Changes
1.        Background. A wide range of crops can be grown In Mexico as a
result of the considerable dispersion in agro-ecological conditions for
agriculture. Agricultural productivity varies considerably depending on
the extent of commercially-oriented farming, public sector investment, and
the use of inputs. In the irrigated and intensively farmed northwest,
yields are twice and labor productivity three times the national average,
whereas in the rainfed plateau states, both measures of productivity are
well below national averages, reflecting the lack of investment as well as
certain intrinsically poor characteristics of the environment.
2.        76% of total cultivated area is under basic grains and oilseeds.
The most important domestic crops, in terms of area planted, are corn
(42.5% in 1984), beans (10.9%), and sorghum (10.0%), followed by wheat,
rice and soybeans. Fruits and vegetables occupy 8.8Z of total area planted
but exceed all other crops in value of production and account for some 28%
of Mexican agricultural exports, second only to coffee in export value. Of
the basic grains, Mexico is self-sufficient in wheat and rice but imports
significant amounts of corn and sorghum. Soybeans is also heavily
imported.
3.        Expansion of irrigated areas, at one time the most significant
factor in the increase in agricultural production, has slowed in recent
years. In 1985, some 5.4 million ha of irrigated land were harvested,
representing 25X of the cropped area. The scope for new schemes is
becoming smaller and development most costly. Government policy has tended
to favor rainfed (temporal) agriculture in recent years, where the scope
for productivity increases in existing technology is high. Investment In
rainfed agriculture is lower cost than in large-scale irrigation and h-s
important social implications.
4.        About 7X of the farms covering 19X of the cropland are using
modern technologies; about half the farms covering 34% of the cropland are
subsistence, producing little for the cash market. The remaining are
classified as traditional farms, producing for the market by using
antiquated technology.
A. Carrent Status of Fertilizer Use
5.        Intensitz of Fertilizer Use. In 1983, the total cultivated area
amounted to 2X.5 million ha. About 60X of the total cultivated area was
fertilized, including about 90X of irrigated areas but only half of rainfed
areas:



ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 9
Rainfed         Irrigated        Total
Cultivated area (million ha)         16.1              5.4           21.5
Fertilized area (million ha)          7.9              4.8           12.8
S fertilized                         09%              89%            60%
As already mentioned, Mexico is exceptionally heterogenous.  Rainfall
varies fham desert climates to tropical rain forest. Irrigation is
available for about 25% of the cropped area and because of the greater
security that this provides (as well as the possibilities for growing
higher value crops on this land), about 50% of the fertilizer is applied to
the irrigated area. The remaining 501 of the fertilizer is used largely on
rainfed crop production in areas where the annual rainfall is 800 mm or
better. The area under the six major crops (basic grains, oilseeds and
sorghum) accounts for close to 80% of the total cultivated area and for
about two-thirds of total fertilizer use and are grown under irrigation as
well as rainfed conditions. Maize alone probably accounts for about a
third of total use.
6.        The average fertilizer doses per ha were in 1985/86 about 130
kilos of nutrient per fertilized hectare. Intensity of fertilizer use,
however, varied considerably depending on crops, regions and water
availability. Average use in rainfed areas was around 100 kilos per ha
while, in irrigated areas, it approximated 180 kilos. There appears to be
still scope for significant increases, particularly in rainfed areas where
fertilizer applications are still significantly below recommended levels.
7.        Mexican farmers, aided by state and national programs in
agricultural research and extension, have made significant progress during
the past few decades in designing and introducing improved production
systems for major crops and agricultural areas. The most striking example
has been the rapid increase in wheat yields, catalyzed by the
rust-resistant dwarf varieties developed for the irrigated area of
Northwest Mexico. The substantial yield increases in the 1960s were
followed by iorvvhat lower percentage increases in the 70s and a continuing
but slower rate of increase in the 19809. In the case of wheat, a
comparison of fertilizer response curves over time would show that the
economic optimum applications of N and P have changed gradually but
substantially because of other factors in addition to the relative prices
of fertilizers and produce. The principal factor has been the appearance
of a series of new varieties that could utilize greater quantities of
fertilizers without detrimental effects such as lodging or disease
epidemics. In addition, the efficiency of land and water use has improved
through land levelling and through development of good-fitting crop
rotations. One of the successful new rotations widely adaptel in the
irrigated deserts of the northwest during the past two decades has been the
winter wheat-summer soybean rotation. Nevertheless, at present high yield
levels tnere is a continuing research struggle to produce new varieties
that will have resistance to constantly changing races of 4isease organisms
while attending to evolving problems such as build-up of salinity in those
irrigated areas that have not had adequate drainage. Average levels of



ANNEX VII
Pege 3 of 9
fertilization are already close to financial optimum, so that, as discussed
later, changes in relative crop to fertilizer price ratios are likely to
move fertilizer applications closer to their economic optimum.
8.        The larger nationwide problem now being addressed is how to use
most effectively the soils and available rainfall in the diverse types of
rainfed areas where much of the farming population lives. In these areas,
where maize and beans are the main crops, yields now appear to be
increasing more rapidly percentage-wise than in the irrigated areas, but
taking off from a much larger base. In these areas, average levels of
fertilization are in most cases sti'.l well below financial and economic
optimums so that returns to increments of N and P can be high. However, in
spite of apparently favorable relationship betwsen prices of fertilizer and
produce, many small farmers producing maize and beans do not use, or use
little fertilizer (para 20). Some of the reasons are institutional. Many
of these low-appliers are unable to obtain production credit, and
consequently crop insurance. Many live in areas where the rainfall may be
adequate on average, but deficient at a key period in the growing cycle in
certain years entailing risks of crop and financial failure. According to
an SPP sample survey, even among those farmers with irrigation a full 1/3
do not apply fertilizer on maize. The figure seems too high, but there are
areas of small scale irrigation where the availability of water during the
key flowering period of maize is not assured.
9.        With respect to land resources, maize is grown on all types of
land from fully or partially irrigated level lands to steep semi-arid
slopes where occasional heavy rains may erode away top soil fertility and
allow much needed moisture to escape. In other cases good rainfall areas
may have peculiar problems such as the high acidity and aluminum toxicity
already mentioned, serious wind erosicn, or unseasonal frost or flooding.
In many cases, farmers have learned to contend with their specific problems
with methods that reduce the risk of crop and financial failure at the cost
of not striving for high yields.
10.       Fertilizer Products Used.  Although there have been problems of
opportunity of deliveries and availability of the proper type of
fertilizer, the overall availability of supplies appear to have been
adequate enough to satisfy effective demand and there are no reports of
widespread speculation or black marketing of fertilizer.
11.       The decisions of Mexican farmers with respect to fertilizer
use--whether to apply and, if so, in what form and quantity--have been
determined only in part by personal preference and knowledge. The
determining factor in many cases has been what is available locally from
the Fertimex distribution system. At present more than 93% of the
fertilizer used by Mexican farmers is solid fertilizer in granular or
powdered form, or in pellets and distributed in bags. The remainder,
anhydrous ammonia (NH3 gas at 82%N), is available only in some of the major
agricultural areas where sufficient equipment for local transport, storage
and application under pressure is available. As shown in the graph on the
next page, this accounts for only 7% of the fertilizer tonnage and 15% of
the nitrogen used in Mexico. Besides anhydrous ammonia, the main sources
of nitrogen used by the farmers are urea (462N) and ammonium sulfate
(20.5%N). The main sources of P205 used are triple superphosphate



ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 9
(46% P205), DAP (46% P205 and 18% N) and simple superphosphate (18% P205).
Fertilizer use by type of products and nutrients is summarized in Graph 1
on the following page and in Annex VI, Table 1. In terms of nutrients,
approximately 1,294,000 tons of N and 425,000 of P205 are used (1985), in a
ratio of 3 to 1. In overall terms, this roughly approximates the
recommended balance for the major crops and production areas as determined
by research trials.
12.       Appropriateness of Fertilizers Used.  As can be seen in the graph
on the next page, a very large proportion of the fertilizer made available
to farmers is still of low concentration, especially ammonium sulphate
(only 20.5%N). There is no agronomic justification for general use of
ammonium sulphate that would compensate for its higher transportation cost
if farmers were required to pay for these costs. There may be specific
areas or crops that do benefit from either the sulphur content or the
acidity introduced by this fertilizer, but the existing data suggest that
this is an isolated phenomenon. On the other hand, there are regions which
suffer from build-up of acidity (lower pH) where continued use of ammonium
sulphate is detrimental (at least part of the "La Fraylesca" region in
the State of Chiapas where more than 100,000 ha of maize are grown during
the summer rainy season is such a case now under study by INIFAP and
CIMMYT).1/
13.       Efficiency of Fertilizer Use.  The efficiency of fertilizer use
in Mexico varies greatly between regions and crops. The efficiency of
fertilizer use by a crop is affected first by the availability of adequate
moisture in the root zone of each plant throughout the growing season, but
particularly at the time of flowering. Within that overall context, the
quality of the soil, the skills and means available to the farmer for
controlling weeds, rodents, insect pests and crop diseases, the technical
support provided by research and extension services, and accesL to credit
from banking institutions are all important constraints.
14.       The question is raised as to whether there is already excessive
use of fertilizer (as a result of present fertilizer subsidies). Based on
three sources of research data in Mexico relating fert'lizer use under
specific production conditions to optimum levels determined by field trials
on maize, beans and wheat,2/3/4/ and observations in the field, it
1.  A. Hibon, R. de la Piedra Constantino, W. Lopez Baez, A. Zamarripa
Moran and S. R. Waddington. "On Farm Research Methodologies at Work in
Mexico:  Progress Report from La Fraylesca, Chiapas.  CIMMYT, June
1986.
2/ Irma Julieta Gonzales A., "Evaluacion del Uso de Fertilizantes en la
produccion de maiz y de frijol en la Republica Mexicana," INIFAP.
1987.
3/ Antonio Turrent Fernandez, "Estimacion del Potencial Productivo Actual
de Maiz y Frijol en la Republic Mexicana," INIFAP. 1986.
4/ Carlos Torres Bernal, Tabulas data provided to the mission, CIANO,
April 1987.



Graph 1                                       ANNEX VII
FERTIUZER USE BY TYPE OF PRODUCT                       Page 5 of 9
TONS Of PRODJCTS - IUG
up (6.05)  ~ ~   ~     ~     MMNIM NMOPE  SUZA4X3355
W  ~    N (0*ARWX) 
UA¢.
TM or t4UTD4TS - 19N6
N1 (10.)12                           MMONLU 1A     (1
umA SMJ                                    U E (17AX)
MMF (3LX



ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 9
appears that, given present price relationships, the cases of excessive use
of fertilizers are relatively few in the sense that farmers use close to
the financially optimum doses. The cases identified were found in high
value export crops where fertilizer is a very small part of the total
production cost. There is also some loss of nitrogen on irrigated wheat
when the application of anhydrous ammonia (NH3) is made through the
gravity-fed irrigation system. Some losses due to gas escaping also occur
when the NH3 is applied directly to the seedbed. However, the farmers who
use NH3 have the impression that the total cost per kg of N reaching the
root zone of the crop is comparable to that attained with application of
urea.
15.       Relative Prices.  Real prices of fertilizers have steadily
decreased in Mexico since 1968 (Graph 2) and have been below import parity
since 1973 for nitrogen and since 1978 for phosphatic fertilizers (graphs 3
to 5). Only for potassic fertilizer have prices increased to import parity
since 1983, but these fertilizer account for only about 6% of total
nutrient use. Today, fertilizer prices to farmers are on average only
about half of import parity (Table 1). Although crop prices are also below
international levels (Table 2), relative prices of fertilizer (kilograms of
crop required to purchase 1 kilo of nutrients) are among the lowest in the
world, and well below the ratios of the respective international parities
(Graph 6). These ratios are currently between 1 and 2 for the major crops,
while the import parity ratio is between 2.5 and 5 for Nitrogen and 2 and 4
for P205-
B. Possible Impact of Proposed Price Increases
16.       As a result of the proposed adjustments, farmgate fertilizer
prices are expected to increase by about 140% in real terms between
September 1987 and the end of 1992. The table below shows the resulting
changes in the share of fertilizer in the cost of production (assuming
fertilizer use per unit of output stays constant) and in the 1986 rop
price:
- -986-                             1992
X of               X of               Z of
Production Costs    Crop Prices       Production Costs
Maize                       7                   6                  9
Rice                        9                   6                 12
Wheat                       8                   5                 11
Sorghum                    13                  10                 16
Soybeans                    5                   4                  7
Beans                       2                   1                  3
Winter vegetables           2                   1                  3
Source:  SPP Production Cost Surveys.
(a) Impact on Fertilizer Use and Agricultural Production
17.       The following paragraphs focus on the possible impact on major
foodcrops (maize, beans, wheat) as illustrative of possible impact on



ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 9
agricultural production. It is not expected that the proposed increese
would affect export crops in any significant way. The share of fertilizer
costs in total production cost for these is quite small and farmers
decisions are principally influenced by international prices and exchange
rate fluctuations. With respect to the major crops for domestic use,
clearly there should not be any significant negative impact on production
and farmers' incomes if crop prices are increased to compensate for higher
fertilizer costs except that farmers will attempt to optimize fertilizer
efficiency by reducing waste and/or changing application methods. Although
difficult to quantify, this is likely to reduce growth of fertilizer demand
initially, but it should not significantly affect yields and production.
Beyond this, further reductions in fertilizer use will depend on: (a)
whether fertilizer use can be optimized by switching to higher value, more
profitable crops; (b) whether savings can be achieved by further reducing
fertilizer use on the same crop; or (c) whether the profitability of
agricultural production is decreased to such an extent that farmers stop
producing.
18.       The impact of increased fertilizer prices on agricultural
production is difficult to assess in isolation from the overall changes in
agricultural policies under consideration. From data available on
fertilizer response curves, one may only attempt to quantify the maximum
possible impact of the proposed price changes in the absence of any
compensatory output price increases and assuming no constraint on
agricultural credit supply. Theory indicates that farmers will increase
fertilizer applications until the value of incremental yields obtr'ned
equals the value of the incremental dosis of fertilizer applied C.G. until:
dQf x pf - dQo x p o (where dQf and dQo are, respectively, the incremental
fertilizer dosis and yield, and Pf and Po are fertilizer and output
prices), i.e.,   dQo - pf
dQf   po
This formula asserts that optimal fertilizer applications are those which
equate the marginal physical response (in kilo of output per kilo of
nutrient input) to the ratio of the price of nutrient to the price of
output. For maize, wheat and beans produced under irrigation, the marginal
physical response is around 3, while in rainfed areas, it is above 10,
compared with a fertilizer to output price ratio of about 1.5. If
fertilizer prices increase by 140%, this price ratio will increase to 4.0
to 4.5. Fertilizer use at current doses would remain highly profitable on
average in rainfed production where farmers would stand to lose much more
foregoing the incremental yields than continuing applications at their
present levels, even after taking into account a reasonable risk factor
inherent to rainfed agriculture. This may not be the case for crops grown
under irrigation where the level of fertilizer application is already very
high and the impact c- higher or lower application rates is considerably
less than in rainfed    as, that is, where production is already well into
the phase of diminishing returns. It is likely that farmers would decrease
fertilizer applications to optimize returns. A review of selected
representative fertilizer response curves suggest the following order of
magnitude of possible production decreases in response to a 140% one-time



ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 9
fertilizer price increase in irrigated areas, and without any changns in
output prices (which can be taken as a maximum risk):
Maize                   - - 5%
Wheat                   - 7%
Beans                   - 4% to - 7%
Since cereal production under irrigation accounts for about a third of
total production, one may estimate that domestic basic grain production
could decrease 2% to 4X if fertilizer prices were to increase by 120Z in
one step without concurrent increases in output pricas. The largest impact
would be on crops grown intensively under irrigation, In particular wheat.
The impact on maize and beans, with over 70% of production in rainfed
conditions, where fertilizer use is still low, would be much less (possibly
2%). Thus the impact on productivity and production even under this
worst-case scenario would be relatively small.
19.       One major underlying assumption in the above analysis is that
sufficient credit is available to finance such an increase in fertilizer
costs. A 140% price increase would require additional financing in the
order of US$450 million (assuming 100% financing of total fertilizer use of
5 million tons), or about US$85 million per year. Since total lending to
agriculture in 1986 amounted to about US$3.7 billion, a maximum 2.5Z annual
real increase in agricultural credit will be required to absorb the
increase in fertilizer price phased over five years. Since agricultural
lending accounts for only about 5% of total credit in Mexico, the required
increase represents less than 0.2% of this total, which is negligiLle in
light of the 10 real increase in credit availability during 1986.
However, assuming that agricultural credit also increases in real terms by
10% per year, fertilizer financing needs will absorb about 232 of thls
increase. Although this is manageable, attention will need to be paid to
overall agricultural credit supply to assure that it is indeed available.
If credit for fertilizer purchases were to remain at current levels, use of
fertilizers could be reduced by as mucl- as 50%. If all use of fertilizer
was eliminated, it is estimated that production of maize would decrease by
23Z, beans 18% and wheat by 13% to 16%. Hl.lfing fertilizer use could thus
decrease production by 10%, with the impact felt particularly in rainfed
areas, which have little alternative sources of financing.
B. Impact on Crop Profitability and Farm Incomes
20.       The impact of the proposed increases on farm incomes will
essentially depend on the magnitude of associated output price increases.
In the absence of compensatory output price increases, it is estimated that
the profit per ha would decrease by about 14% to 17% for maize and about
18% for wheat. Given the cost to price ratios shown in para 16 above, in
order to maintain a constant ratio of price to production cost output
prices would need to increase by 6% to 9% over the period in real terms
(except sorghum which would need to increase by 14%) to coepensate for a
120% fertilizer price increase. If guarantee prices do increase and are
subsequently kept to to their international parity during this period, it
is estimated that they will in fact increase over their 1986 level by rates



ANNEX VII
Page 9 of 9
ranging fromu 13% for wheat, to 23% for maize, 27% for soybeans, 35% for
sorghum and 42% for rice. Even if alignment on international prices is
only half of what it should be, it is likely to be sufficient to prevent a
decrease in net incomes per ha, except possibly for wheat. (Wheat is grown
almost exclusively on the highly technified irrigated land of the northwest
and is in surplus over domestic consumption). Profitability of crop
production is in fact expected to increase by 1992, if guarantee prices of
the five major crops are increased to international levels, by 2% (for
wheat) to 29% for rice, or 11% on average for these five major crops, which
accounted for over three fourth of the 1985 cultivated area and 58% of
total agricultural production value. Finally, one may reitezate that the
poorest farmers are unlikely to be affected by fertilizer price increases
of any magnitude: poor farmers in Mexico are subsistence farmers producing
essentially m-fze and beans under rainfed condition. Because of perceived
risks most of them do not use any fertilizers (over 60% of rainfed area
under beans and 35% of rainfed area under maize does not receive any
fertilizer at all).
Country Department II
Trade, Finance and Industry Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
September 1987



MIE VII
Grsps 2 ad 3
Grph 2        Fertilizer prices in real tenns
in 19 cdor tam,
2l
.1  2
3  ~ 1.8t2s.                                    2
IA
I
06
68 69 0 71 72 7374 7 76  ? 71 7       10 81   83 84 00 86   a7
o   N_         + 4P205 iW.        @     cm
Graph 3    Urea- Domestic prices and Oimport parity
Am -             ft~~~- =Bhmd .q**.hi
I00
1250~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I~~3drd 



*AM= VII
Graphs 4 ua 5
Graph 4      TSP- Domestic prices and import parity
5.   Ii .qm
3t~7        M   to 7t              el  7a~ 7~4 as M       w70t ot 4 
d rI_Ik      "W+  bo P.
fth S        KICL- Domesftc prices ond import parity
170
am
12.-
1w.
100
Z  Z to Tt76 iJ i4 70 76   70   80 91 ot  "     94 as im  I 
O    _     mt P.



CrDp f. feblz uxce rios
ro                                                     Ls                                      0
0                                         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 55.
7        .                   o                     S                                . o  15.
3                                                         -.
3.1                                                            -
Oee_.S                                             a                          45>                   U^
Sd 1* b^DS  }   llWttRM              d kt O4
7                       ~~~~~~~~~~~0
a . 
'3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4-O                                    4                                                   a             Ta1 3"
*f                        TO                                      tt0 
Sore IID an   ulse  AOstU           sa
0                                                     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0         ~~~~0      4                    a0
a~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
It.                                                                  0~~ a~.      
0     20~~~~~~~~~~~~
2                                                           a           '                a~~~~~ -        ILkt
0                                                                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0CbP
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
0  I0I0I  I  I  IIr-r-r-r-rT-!-rI  I  I  II  II                             



ANNUK Tvi
Table I
?am I o-M2
1UIIW ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     S* 
IRTFIUZ  SICTOR ADJUSTNET LOAN
Pertllser Primes
Price per ton. ft-RaSlhead. bulk
Domestic rice                           ort frtyb              Domestic as S
lex.   o                   /ton  to PtotOl           Ion                ftait
Nov. Br     APT. 87      Nov a 6    APr* 57       Nov.* 86    Apr* 87-      NOV* 86     ADr. 57
Anhydrous Ammonia               52,000       75,000       61          65          115          ISS           53            42
Uresa                           55,400       77.088       6S          67         lS           143           56            47
Ammonia Nitrate                 42,300       59,000       S0          51          110          128           45            40
Ammonium Sulfate                26,600       38,000       31          33           90           92           34            36
TSP                             66,300       92,000       78          80          155          181           50            44
88P                             26,100       38,000       31          33           82            9           38            33
DAP                            115,900      163,000      136         142          180          204           76            69
Potassium Chloride              81,900      115,000       96         100          105          110           91            91
Potassium Sulfate              202.200      250.000      238         217          215          205          111           106
Weighted Average                S1,850       72.424       61          63          115          134           53            47
aJ Nov. 1986 - Hex. $850OUSI*
Apr. 1987 - Mex. $1,l50/US$1.
/ CIF price, plus average distrlbutlon costs to rallbead outlet (US$35/ton),
excluding bags and baggin%,



ANNEx VII
Table 1
Pe.ge 2 of 2
V3IT     R uSCTOR AUSMNT  OAN
l_rtLlgser Pricee
Price per ton. Ex-rellbsed. bulk
Decmsber 20,                                  Dace b.r 20,
September 26,      1987 - Current         Inflation          1987 - constent terms e       increa   In
Product              1987               Terms           Oct. - end Dec.            of end 'ept.             rel term
Anhydrous Ammonla       112,000             207,000                 130                   159,233                   42
Urea                    113,000             200,000                 130                   153,848                   36
Amonium Nitrate          89,000             160,000                 130                   123,079                   38
Aonium Sulfate           57,000             105,000                 130                    60,770                   42
TSP                     135,000             249,000                 130                   191,541                   42
SS?                      57,000             105,000                 130                    80,770                   42
KCL                     175,000             250,000                 130                   192,310                   10
KS                      325,000             455,000                 130                   350,005                    8
DAP                     244,000             450,000                 130                   346,159                   42
17-17-17                204,000             377,000                 130                   290,004                   42
Weighted Average                                                                                                     9
April prices      Sept. priles     Dec. prices
Product            i                  in USS        .lnUU$
Anhydrous Amonla             63                72                94
Urea                         65                72                91
ammonium Nitrate             50                57                73
Amonium Sulfate              32                36                48
TSP                          78                86               113
SSP                          32                36                48
KCL                          97               112               114
KS                          211               208               207
DAP                         138               156               205
17-17-17                    116               130               171
Ex-bange Rate             1,163             1,564             2,200
Note:
Past inflation: Oct. 87: 8.71; Nov. 87s 6.41; Dec. 87: 12.4Z
(Producer Price Index).



ANNEX VII
Table 2
ERTLIZI  ST         W         LoA
Nominal Protection Coefficients for Nalor CiropsaI
Price Ratio
Net Trade
1983-86   April 86    Nov. 1986    April 1987          Position
liaise
Guarnatee/CIF (landed)      1.28      1,37         1.05          1.01       Net importer
Wheat
Guarantee/FOB               0.95      0.38         0.58          0.83       Large surplus in
1985
Rice
Guarantee/CIF (landed)      0.97      0.66         0.74          0.75       Net importer
Beans
Guarantee/CIF (landed)      1.13/    n.a.          no&*          n.a.       Self sufficient to
net Importer
sorghum
Guarantee/CIF (landed)      0.89      0.92         0.71          0.57       Net importer
Soybeans
Guarantee/CIF (1laded)      1.08      0.81         0.85          0.75       Net importer
al   Ratio of domestic (Guarantee) prices to international prices, at current exchange
rate.
b/   1985.
.5



ANNEX VII
Table 3
NEXICO
FERTILIZER S8CTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Projected Changes In Welghted Average altel:ational and Domestic Price.  /
(In Constant 1987 terms - US$/ton)
1986      1987      1988      1989     1990       1991      1992
International Prices
Urea / US$/ton                             108        117      122       142       182       188       194
(Index)                           (92)      (100)    (104)    (121)    (156)        (161)    (166)
TSP 2/ USS/ton                             123        138       131      135       145        152      160
(Index)                           (89)      (100)     (95)      (98)    (105)       (110)    (116)
Potassium Chloride  l US$/ton               69        69        73        7:        85        89        93
(KC1) (Index)                    (100)      (100)    (106)    (112)    (123)        (129)    (135)
Wdghted Average ImPort Pa-ity
(Bulk) Weighted Average !/ Y
List Price Equivalent        U - US8       115        152      157       170       187       193       196
(Index)                           (76)      (100)    (103)    (112)    (123)        (127) * (129)
Retail Price Equivalent - US$              115        152      160       176       196       205       211
(Index)                           (76)      (100)    (105)    (116)    (129)        (135)    (139)
Doees.ic Prices (Bulk) - Weighted Average             Sept.    Dec.    Dec.   Dec.   Dec.   Dec.   Dec.
(a) List prices l
US$/ton                            61         76       105       105   118    132    149    167
(Index)                                     (100)    (138)    (138) (155)  (174)  (196)  (220)
(b) Retail prices !/
IJS$/ton                           61         76       105       108    124   141    161    182
(Index)                                      (100)   (138)    (142)  (163) (186)  (212)  (240)
Domestic Prices (Bulk. Weighted Average).1
as Z of Import Parlty
(a)  tist Prices                            53         50       69        67     69   71       77      85
(b)  Retail prices                          S3         50       69        68     70   72       79      86
a/ Average price weighted by 1992 sales composition by product.
b/ Bagged, CIF Western Europe.
c/ Bulk, FOB US Gulf.
Ti Bulk, FOB Vancouver.
j   l  1986 and 1987: equivalent to the retail price (ex-2600 outlets).  Progressively
changing to the equivalent of a wholesale price (ex-primary warehouse) as FBRTIKEX
withdraws from retail operations.
f/ Including lnternational freight and port charges estimated at US$15/ton and internal distribution
costs to retail outlets of US$35/ton (estimated distribution costs to wholesale
level: US15-20).
International Price Projections: 8PDDR, February 5, 1987.



ANNEX VIt
Table 4
MEXICO
FERTILTZER SECTOR ADJ']SMENT LOAN
Excerpt from Customs Code - Applicable as of December 15, 1987
Tariff Duties on Selected Fertilizers
Code                                Item                           Duty
2816AO01               Liquid Ammonia                              O0
3102AD01               Ammonium Nitrate                             0X
3102A0J2               Calcium Nitrate                              0%
3102AD03               Ammonium Sulfate                             ox
3102A005               Urea                                         0%
3103A001               Mineral or Chemical
Phosphatic Fertilizers                      0%
3104AD01               Potassium Chloride                           0%
3104A002               Potassium Sulfate                           0O
3105AD01               Monoammonium Phosphate                      0o
3105AD02               Diammonium Phosphate                         0%
3105A005               Preparations from Nitrogenous
Potassic and Phosphatic Fertilizers



ANRiEX Vill
Table 1
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMNT LOMN
Totl Proiect Costs
Local V      Forei       Total
-     (Us$ million) -
Estimated Cost
A, IMports                               -          200.0        200.0
B. Rationaliz&tion Investments
Pajaritos Ammonium Nitrate Ilant     23.2         18.1         41.3
Plant Rehabilitation                  6.5         10.5         17,0
Warehouses                           20.3         12.1         32.4
Amonia Spheres                        4.5          3.5          8.0
Maritime Terminals                   15.3          8.8         24.1
Sub-total                     69.8         53.0        122.8
C. Technical Assistance
Distribution Study                    0.3          0.2          0.5
ERTItlX Reorganization Study          0.2          0.4          0.6
Improvements in Planning System      -             0.1          0.1
Phosphate Rock Study                  -            0.2          0.2
Sub-total                       0.5          0.9          1.4
Base Cost                            70.3        253.9        324.2
Physical Contingencies                   5.4          5.3         10.7
Price Contingencies                      5.7          S.8         11.5
Total ProJect Costs                  81.4        265.0        346.4
aI Including duties on imported equipment (US$8.8 million) and indirect
taxes on off-the shelf items (US$0.8 million) and civil works
(US$13.0 million).



ANNEX VIII
Table 2
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Procureeent and Disbursements
Procure-ent                              Procurement Method          Total
ICB      LCB     Other    N.A.      COOL
USS million)            --
Investments S
Engineering                                 _       2.9       _        2.9
Equipment and Materials         15.8      27.2     15.0       -       58.0
(15.8)      -      (15.0) 1/  -       (30.8)
Civil Works and Erection        24.8      42.0       -        -       66.8
(24.8)    (8.0)       -       -       (32.8)
Administration                    -         -       8.5       -        8.5
Import Duties                     -         - h.8                      8.8
Total Investments               40.6    60.2        26.4      8.8    145.0
(40.6)    (8.0)    (15.0)    -        (63.6)
Technical Assistance              -         -         1.4     -         1.4
_ _  _   _        (1.4)    -        (1.4)
Fertilizer Imports:
Fertilizer and Fertilizer
Raw Haterials                i30.0        -       20.0 Y   -       150.0
(130.0)      -       (20.0)    -     (150.0)
other Imports                   50.o 3/    -          -       -       50.0
(50.0)      -          -      -       (50.0)
Total                   220.6      69.2      47.8     8.8    346.4
(220.6)     (8.0)   (36.4)    -      (265.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts finauced by tbe
Bank.
1/ LIE/S and direct purchases.
/ Phosphate rock (sole source), 1988 only.
Jl For contracts exceeding US55.0 million. Other contracts would follow
normal procedures of the purchasers.
Disbursements
A3ounts
Category                (USS million)              X
Fertilizer and Fertilizer
Raw Materials                   150.0        100X of foreign expenditures
Other Imports                       50.0
Civil Works and Erection            32.8       100S of foreign expenditures;
100S of local expenditures
Equipment and Materials             30.8       (ex-factory) and 80Z of local
expenditures.
*Training and Technical Assistance  I .        1002 of total expenditures
Estimated BDak Disbursements
lIBD Fiscal Year
198S    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
---------------- USSmilin)
Annual              10      109.5   107.5    17.0    12.6       6.9      1.5
Cumelative          10.0    119.5   227.0   244.0   256.6   263.5   265.0



AMNU VIll
Table 3
PERTILI;LR SECTOR LOAN
Projected Imports of Fertilizer and Fertilize. Raw Waterial
A. FINISUD PRCUCTS IMPORTS                119866   1987   1988   1989   1990
Quantities (tiousand tons)
TSP                                   159     24       -      -      -
Urea                                  111     42      37    120    500
AaMuv nivs Nitrate                     90      -      -       -
Diasmoumus Phosphate                   83     60       -      -      -
Potassium Sulfate                      24      -      29     30     32
Potassium Chlo 14e (Granulated)        84     25     42      48     5S
Potassium  itrtze                       -      5      10     10     10
Complexes                              64      -       -      -      -
Prices - USStton - C1F - Current terms
TSP                                          147    132    164    172
Urea                                         106    126    156    196
Diaimonium Phosphate                         186    197    221    244
Poti-zvaua Sulfate                           172    18S    209    226
Potassium Chlorlde (Granulated)              105    107    115    141
Potassium Nitrate                            250    275    300    330
amort Value - US$ mllion
TSP                                    21.2    3.5    -       -      -
Urea                                   10-0   4.4    4.7   18.7   98 0
Aonium Nitrate                          8.5    -       -      -      -
Diamnomnim  Phosaphate                 14.1   10.2    -       -      -
Potassium Sulfate                       4.2   .-       5.5    6.3    7.3
Potassium Chloride (Granulated)         6.1    2.6    4.5    5.S    7.8
Potassilu  Nitrate                      -      -      -       -      -
Compleese                               2.3    1.2    _
Total Import Value - Finished Products      66.4   21.9   14.7   30.S  113.1
Imported Qusatities (thousand tons)
Phosphoric cied                         -     25      -       -      -
Phosphate Rock                      1,130  1,255  1,500  1,700  1,900
Potassiu  Chloride (standsrd)          68    100    190    195    200
Prices - US/ton - CIF - Current terms
Phosophte Rock                                37     40      43     45
Potassium Chlorde (standard)                  79     89      95    104
Imort Value - OS$ million
Phosphoric Acid                         -      6.5    -              -
Phosphate Roc                          33.4  46.4  60.0   73.1   85*5
Potassium Cbloride (standard)          _4.8    7.9   16.9    6.9   20.8
Total lMport value  Intermediates           40.'s  60.8   76.9  92.0  106.3
TOTAL IMPORTS - usg million           106.8   82.7   91.6  11225  219.4
Incrmstel Imorts over 1987 lev
Per yer                           -      -      8.9   39.8  13M.7
Cumlative                         -      -      8.9   48.   185.4



em""  u,*e  LW:,  LU'5  ____                        gu'LI UUS'L? Lt?'M~~~~, 3 mill ti UO'O   UPeS'?  tW'I* 9L95            PM' s,   i1   smo
vwo~~ tJwo               IW          t      Got    Go                C"  *"                    9tQt   9U                        CtS6tl4v0 
_ -    g                  - l                                     -            - - w- "A  uXu  tl mW      o   I lS C                   t< ts                        W
s'g    UrV      -        W6l   9'                 409              -    V e         K                    t t  SW    V          t1S'C    SS't     - wt             9WI  ZOWm
_    '$    nw         cg&'tt mg    St'tt    49w        c"'    m'"        UgVZ  Sn t"  m'oz                OUz¢    ASf       V t't  otU   O§wl            9"ssat;f
mtw    wtV   tw:9         ml"? SW*  s6w           owLi  9tW't   tWt         I90'g  SOtt  two          U9iL   6t'   £9'          99£g'    Wt   twI
sOwl   Ut's  Its         U6'?  n9       6'         LW      MIT al   '?      SW't  in6    4C           oe     0£?    is          V9W%  99Vt   in':          -qmW o
C_t%?   'Ot?  SSO'CC     69'?? ft'   3Wo            6'tC   996'0?1.          ?9'619'?tin t'OC lSLSS    "      O9V    09'        t96L    in.?  9W.                          .U
066'??          Wt          'Z t146  96'    WC  S9.  Oau'9,"  t?wat *Ws      OCt'St q96   99?'S       owl  n1c't  "t9'            n 'n cWtt ?Pl'9                     Po stP A
2tw    u4v$t  #le        9ttn  SvStl  tog,*        'n   act,1   tI'l         Z*@    mls'   tC'I        ot0   m1    sett         LLt¢Ct t"98   st"tt       4tpmPM            l
n9t't nsf  9             1t9    96t    CSt         OW     gm      1          LW                       to      09    15          119    ac9 C  _?
tel tt ~~~~~~~~~(p31m11  m) bs11
S_tmm                       _3M                                                                  _      S_B tl~            A" l-



ANNEX VIII
Table 5
MeXICO
PERTILIZER SECTOR LOAN
Capital Cost Estimates
Technical Assistance Component
Forelgn     Local     Total
(US$ thousand)
1.   Reoo anization Study                       400.0      200.0     600.0
2.   Distribution Study                         200.0      300.0    500.0
3.   Phosphate Rock Study                       200.0        -        200.0
4.   Improvements in Planning Capabilities
Computer equipment and software             59.0        -        59.0
Consultant's services (32 manweeks)         23.0       23.0      46.0
Travel and Subsistence                      16.5        9.9      26.4
Total Base Cost                       98.5       32.9      131.4
Total Costs                          898.5      532.9   1,431.4
_s __ -



3iii         I 1jj 3jj j1j  fil  f  fjfl W!                          fli 1W     uU|  1 11X1|g W1 5 }luf  I X  \
ffis1~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j
II1     ::  = : =__.:____:_=__:_I_,
iiS                                                                                              __1L_1__11 ,1    lll
I.            .__ l_ .___.._ ..#
l : v : . v : =[ - I :: : =: :-;-: l ' W 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_   . <       ~      ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~It                                        t     '-   
if ~       ~        Z1                        1!"l::                          1 :            1J   



ts
N Io
N I
P    1I..1511.   swtt A0liqP 11_164li n     I%10         l6              P1             gm-t            1a             @1 g                                    uml             * UOtd 118
.Usm~   q uluqSW  I'sub0  nt"     m sum uip                  P1P1I                           at?         go14t                             UNh uslII*d T'1
eftis"Ne At"Imm 6M) 4=81 ) Gmd I Itt"-                                         -        PUZ - 
PqWSii U4 et d_4
(00'005*) _~  asjs   fls   ) _e tOI(5    W)
so 's91    (ITT) 'oovouts) 1In1U       - 1* s        (11) 4toUi9)                                            ow      Z                                inFl tUltl  O"iZhISd 
'se'm$  I' etSu  Lasle (3) sotl  £.   *ISZ4 is 0gL Wte los
ofts l t*  _-_s  na sqa n 6ams. O                  1 'SO)ot U9                                                    ' 1  00"a"q                         Ieq
*_patted _sm  PMt s-              p"83   Mst *-Ad" TimE                                          ^             lf          * -          0-i              Ptlt 'elll
*,(oootto sn_ a' sq a.#t amspi   to (m1) _w-eoe'o)
btvw  ss  ;   as;  e".t t-gea *sqauw  (31)(0sq) se1ub 
ow an   1) s*stt £l .14614 om4t ne  £9 u13-.Ad #
v.n-1t ttt                                                                                                   oil OZ5  C  t  SI  eW    WSq   13
*t"oad mtnt                      VP ,t t- OWaet
t-  -o   *w                 am"_s bsmse  n"to"    _ &NW$ o m                    -                     -9U nU091 £u  tsqattsi
,A5  3  at 5a_14 s1'-0
ov  SII  64"O  t o-t- "Oe  as                   "te *I-81-1tnZ-1                                                                          _sste              u      w       
aso 11""53116 PM. We' 3. s'sI gm q"el p saw  bile's 16mW                 119I                                                            &OW43 tM  5    btile'  6601*18  15*15600  U0f13tr
'saM   618)613 *"a a*abt  p_ 0e136TIOi PM  s-
seem       S      '11)1.031 6m Oas1 0uMIqUqua  10634.                                        @C 618 ealSIoO                                                                 uu    "
Urn  ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~        1(W  WZ        M's11311miq18
iii sn"  on              1 4ttltip, soi w
(03* £01    _ 'US)
S3a- luWilWi1) can 18614



mm
,l ,    _     -   _
2         1smde         Qt_S          10        2*        5      534                    i'Xt.... *X  _   *.*                              5.3          5.3        2.1404   4.9              6.9          27A
£3 ~~~m      3.9      5.9
OJmq      t ' 4           19.7
25.3         9.7~I    96.7
3am "anm         52*      22.4
t       350040086      254 _0me       111        -      WA       27*          47.0    t5  _mw*          110.9    24A4        -                         2*  5      2.1404   49.9             4354          12.3
p1m.151o          9.9     52A
O       am  Ls1_                       s         -      3a.9     35.5          2.1      411       _      3        5. lt      - .3         4.7          4*7         1493.9    99              944*         14A
bltoe                                                                         ad""0             4*       5.1
as to" Sutmi    4.5        5.1
O       3.o..          Zm..4          3         25    lO.?   l3.?             M0.7    Ima               AG,O     40.7        4.?          2.5          5.  l,        .l   4.9                S.          25.4
bAoOd            45.0    44.0
4         24m..        Ust..          20         -        *       0.?          9.7    utmw              54*      49.2        -            4.5          4.5        54.14"A                   253.7         24.5
Yillode6o        37.0    23.5
to       05.so         csa             so        s to    "A       9a             A.     c_"%             49*       A.         7.0 e.3                   4.7         e".09    * 49.9          55.7 1.5
i1       010o             _ to* Go   e0           -      5a7.2    47.0         4.0 *       t4                     47*         -            4.?          4.7        3140A    49.9             4n4          t.9
4       Eldola.        VocOut.e            * t2         41.s     444           444    3a3mllal          U1.       32.0        3*          2.1          4A*        2,3044A    9.9              MA          345
_5.1              2*       2*
*                    a  *-bF~ftou"     *A       S7
amicelms         l4.5      4A
W   itt"    25.        5.7
odso             32.J     32.9
12slq             9.5     20.3
32   6.1b          Mims            20        56     254     32542         325.2   Sa1l.c.           43.9      41.9        2.2          1A          64.         50.95.    49.9         I3,3*4          22.1
0 08w             5.5      5.5
?aome1oo        53A      53A
taboon       244      244
9       Ye,.....       l                                30.4   _.4             3.1    faws        -      1.1      114         -           44           4.3        3.4919   49.9             204.9         15.5
2ms mmw3o         1.9        .t
7    _ 50o             15.41 Gotten  20         la      13.0     9.0          "9       SMIe  otlrema   30.0      IDA          7.I    *a        .*                 5,95.1    9.              71465         21.7
"Clutake          6.0     t0.?
flolequ           6,0     W0?
so cristow       37.0     5e.2
is       Qubcm         JSitto          30         -      25.2     5.?          45.3    2t                25.2     45.         -             .4          5.         2,3404   49.               1214         3.9
_4                                                                                                                                                       Zaa Valle eta1    3  5  73*  94  150.5    1.105 coo.  VA  52.9  I4A  2*  5.2  4,324.  .A  3.2t06.  23*
@1'    1.0      14.9
05...       ~~35.0    24.5
Au                         no 3       125    794.7    915.9       3,0A                       1194,7  e,02          44A           2*          44        3S#4.1   MA               9*5*           22.1
Cl) 2601dm   1*31w polwito   .
(S) _ins v_Imm we pv.jeeted ot .2  mmS 6,0002 wase  101 _t a m$w ,m* _t, of 4.5.
(4) 012 - 01 tetto de destlle twul.
(5) lbmmm dm.t2..e2.m. Were developed 2,00 18642mm .ompw sciml.
(6) C.3otyt te,ms,Is do40lad 0  "Llof "Imm to i              m  cemm_ ti. _-e-   m_  1aumio._ Smsu.. .2.14 be .1 t VOL" **peaty toomt.                                                                 1
I g.
'.e:



Ws                     um~~~~aism                                                         whvlich
sa,ui  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~          10001.3~~~~tmi  1/teat taabop.r                                                                                   "a
two""ead  (136      bltatus       10,000   bastage Salk witbout          -      ,00       1.000      78.000     23,000      SO     Wsuicalt             30.000      14,000     1,332.0        -394.0                 28.2
lailmed                                                                              badalopa Vtoto1a   30.000 hi64.000
2. Ma Carlo. (WsI)  bulasi         6.000    To be built vItboAt        4900    2,50        Soo       16.000      SAN0        9A    Co Cro..tltutloa      3,C090     18.000     2.12S.2        -             26.5      25.5
5. Goopeas (IOU)      bstelog       50.000   TO ba built ultb U        1.770     5.0001    i,00       547.000     37.300      10    faam""                30.000     49.000      2.802.5       49.9         626.4      12.6
(Truck transport ho.                                                                   N,.j.                10,000     29.000
baotb)                                                                                Cd Ong"o             10,000     20.000
bagoaitl,           20,00       49,000
4. Iasolobsogo (625) Ia ba b.¶tlt  20.00      To be bults wttb lail-       -     5.00       1.000     256,00      26.00       t0      aam.e92             20,000 hi 74.000       7,714.3        -1,24048                23.0
food                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~awasev  20,000    t62.000
S,  atamtlgo (511)    biatiog       20,000   btiaUug with laltoad    I,'m        5.000      1,000     310,000    21,300       10    Culaeam               30.000     221.000     1,2s7.         -         2,613.7    107.4
alwactan            10.000      63.000
UPS*                30.000    200.000
6. Smut. laG.?.       biwtuset       6.000   Satiugu  - vitbout            -    2I50        1,00      261,000     12,500      9.5    Ttutla               20,000     52.000      2,123.2        -          2.013.0    120.S
(CIII)                                     ""cufd                                       5009                                    C"ii..               10,000     66,000
villacoma           10 .000     43,000
7. *ltoa (laS)  lb be buollt  30,00         1 be boUtl litb          1.300 di 5.000       2.000     262,00      21,700     12      Cd Victioa           10.000     67.000     10,309.3      39A.         2,032.5     17.7
SI.it..                  700                S 5,1_3/                                 V4aimofo.            3,000      102.00
tasme500                        93,000
bUn.             92.000~MO                                                        1.212.000                                                     1.212,000    23,1224      4643.3        6,243.9      29.7
s/ isisata lto
htoduett 11 bag
v bobu t Iam qaloadaG to ?map&"o
withil molb   u.31t



_a1  Iahteg- Smrt
tt~~~~~~~~~~~~1w~o                                     ow_ s rs) 34_w9it Uae
of **tb        &Mm  S vtt"
&Afet                                                   1100                 _LL    T outs   , (tIom                            d 1967 US       KIM
ooooe            _sebm                     3,500      15,000        15,00                     2,334.8       W4.0.            1,23m5           27.9
Doaq             oafwO                     2,000        2,200         2,200        1O,0O0      2,027.1* 7.4                   1,80.1           33.6
!MOse            Vaus lSb e                2,000        5,400         3,400        10,00       2,037.1       17.4             1,016.0          27A.
Jllase           tresc                     1.5. 000                      ,         1.O00      2.356.S        180.             091             39.4
ISal Projet          11,000      20,200         26,200        5,000       8,78.6        72600           7,2114            32*9
m              m             -                          _                             - 



ANNEX VIII
Table U
Nmco
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSThRNT LOAN
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
Ammonium Nitrate Plant
Economic Rate of Return (Z)
1.  Base Case                                             21.02
2. Capital Costs:
+202                                                11.0%
3. Ammonia Price
+10%                                                18.4%
4. Ammonium Nitrate Price
-lo%                                                15.1l
5. Operating Rate a/
60-75-90                                           18.32
6. Fixed Costs
+50%                                               18.72
7. Capital Costs +10Z; and
Aimonia Cost +10Z; and
Ammonia Price - 10%                                   10.3%
8. As above, with operating
rates of 60-75-90                                   8.1%
a/ Uase Case considers 70%, 852 and 1002 in years 1,2 and 3 of
operations.



ANNEX VIII
Table 12
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Primary Warehouses - Sensitivity Analysis
ERR (x)
Base Case                                                   22.1
Capital Cost
+10%                                                    20.0
-10%                                                    24.7
Warehouses Operating Cost
+20%                                                    21.5
+10%                                                    21.9
-10%                                                    22.5
-20%                                                    22.8
Bulk and Bag Transport Cost Differential a/
10% for rail                                          20.0
30% for rail                                          23.8
10% for trucks                                        22.9
no difference for trucks                               21.4
10% for rail and no difference for truck              19.6
30% for rail and 10% for truck                        24.6
no difference for rail and truck                       17.0
a/ Base case considers a bulk transport cost 20% lower than bag transport
cost for rail and 5% lower for truck transport.



ANNEX VIII
Table 13
xmco
PLlglSR SUM ADJSTSZNW
Maritime Terminals - Sensitivity Analysis
(X)
Total Project Altamira Topolobambo Guaymas
Base Case a/                        29.2        17.7        13.0       12.6
Rail and Truck Transport Cost
with project
+20X                           21.5        12.3         8.5       3.1
+102                           25.4        15.1        10.9       8.2
-102                           32.7       20.1         15.1      16.6
-201                           36.2       22.5         17.1      20.2
Maritime Freight with project
+20%                           24.7        15.6         9.2       4.9
+101                           27.0       16.6         11.2       9.0
-101                           31.3        18.7        14.9       15.9
-201                           33.5        19.7        16.7      19.0
Operating Cost
+201                           28.6        17.2        12.6       11.6
+101                           29.0        17.5        12.8       12.1
-101                           29.4        17.9        13.0      13.1
-20Z                           29.7        18.1        13.4      13.6
Capital Cost
+101                           26.5        15.8        11.3       11.0
-101                           32.3        19.9        15.0       14.6
Annual Throughput +6%
Annual Growth Rate                36.4        22.9        17.5       17.1
a/ Based on 1987 throughput, 2 years erection and 15 years operation.



ANNEX VIII
Table 14
MEXICO
PERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Ammonia Spheres - Sensitivity Analysis
EkR X
Base Case                                                   32.9
Capital Costs:
-1OZ                                                    35.0
+10%                                                    31.0
Spheres Operating CosZ>
+10-                                                    32.8
Transport Cost Savings
-10%                                                    38.8
Savings from Urea Substitution
-10%                                                    30.9
-20%                                                    28.7



ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Past and Projected Financial Performance of FERTIMEX
1.        Over the period 1982-1986 FERTIMNX has shown a continuous
increase in its losses and a clear reliance on government transfers in
order to continue its operations. Gross losses as a percentage of sales,
increased from 15.4 percent in 1983 to 36.1 percent in 1986. Net losses
before the application of government subsidies amounted to US$232.7 million
in 1986 and are estimated at US$267 million in 1987.
2.        The most significant factor that has contributed to FERTIHEX's
poor financial condition has been the sale of fertilizers at government
controlled prices which are substantially below FERTIMEX's unit cost of
sales. In addition to high production and distribution costs, FERTIMEX'8
overheads are high and in 1986 amounted to 17% of sales or US$14 per ton of
fertilizer sold.
3.        FERTIMEX's financial charges have been considerable because of
the large debt burden that it carries, US$1,032 million at the end of
December, 1987, of which about 83 percent is denominated in foreign
currencies. In 1986, gross financial expenses totalled US$61 million which
was 16% of sales or US$13.5 per ton of fertilizer sold.
4.        The table below demonstrates the substantial impact of FERTINEX's
poor financial performance on the government budget for the period
1984-1 987.
Table 1. Government Budgetary Transfers
(current US$ million)
1984        1985        1986        1987
(Estlimated)
1) Operations                      104.7       133.1       136.6       152.7
2)  Interest charges                74.8        60.8        60.7       68.3
3)  Investment                     163.1       181.5        64.3        34.0
4)  Debt service amortization    112.3         101.4       124.2       110.0
TOTAL               454.9        476.8      385.8       365.0
5.        Because of prevailing pricing policies and resulting dejendence
on Government transfers, financial and operating covenants agreed between
FERTIMEX and the Bank in 1979 as part of the US$80 million loan for the
Lazaro Cardenas phosphate complex, have generally not been complied with.
Except for 1983, current ratios have been below 1.0, leaving FERTIMEX with
a permanent negative working capital. Th- level of current assets which



ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 4
were not to exceed 3.5 months of annual sales, have since 1984 not been
less than 8 months of annual sales. Because of FERTIMXE's continued
involvement in retail sales and consignment overations, Inventory levels
have been at more than twice the agreed levels in 1985 and 1986.
6.        Assumptions underlying financial projections.  The model used to
determine the pricing formula and the financial projections based on the
same model have been done using prices in real December 1987 terms.
(Detailed projections are available in the Project File, Reference 1).
The following assumptions have been made with respect to:
a.   Sales:  Sales or fertilizer are consistent with those
presented in Annex VI.
b.   Production levels:  Assumes a phasing out of obsolete,
non-viable plants over a three-year period (Annex V); entry
of new production capacity as per the investment program
(Annex VI); and capacity utilization reflecting improvements
due to plant rehabilitation and optimization.
C.   Imports and Exports:  Surplus or deficits arising from
production--demand imbalances are exported or imported
respectively.
d.   Raw Material Costs:  The price assumptions in constant 1987
US$ for the primary raw material inputs are presented below.
The price of ammonia increases gradually until it equals 80%
of its projected export value by 1992. The prices for
sulphur, phosphate rock and potassium chloride are derived
from international prices as projected by the Bank.
Average Raw Material Price (US$ per ton)
(1987 terms)
1987    1jg3      1989     1990      1991     1992
Ammonia                30        45       56       86       112      130
Sulphur                 59      106      116       120      125      130
Phosphate Rock         38        38       39       40        40       40
Pot. Chloride          80        83       89       97       104      104
e.   Other Direct Costs:  These are derived from actual financial
costs incurred by PERTIMEX in 1986 and 1987 for existing
plants and assumed constant during the projection period.
Engineering estimates of these costs are assumed for new
plant capacity. Depreclation of new plant capacity is done
on a straight line basis over 15 years.



ANNeX IX
Page 3 of 4
f.   Marketing and Administratlon (Overhead) Costs: These were
derived from actual costs Incurred by FERTIMEX in 1986 and
are assumed to be reduced on a straight line basis by 152
over a four-year period.
go   Distribution Costs:  These costs, excluding flnancial costs
of inventories, losses and some marketing costs classified
as overhead, are estimated to be US$29.6/ton in 1986 and
will be reduced by US$7.7/ton (or 25%) over a four-year
period.
h.   Financial Expenses:  Under the debt restructuring proposed,
852 of outstanding debt as of December 31, 1987, will be
assumed by the Government. The financial charges on the
remaining debt are as per the debt service schedule provided
by FERTIMEKX New debt incurred is assumed to be payable
over 15 years with a 3-year grade period. Interest on new
debt is at 82.
i.   Capital Expenditures:  As per the investment program (Annex
VI).  The Government may provide new equity financing up to
a maximum of 50 percent of total costs if internally
generated funds are insufficient.
jo  Fertilizer Prices:  There are projected in line with the
policies and rates of increases detailed in paras. 43 and 45
of the Report.
k. Debt Restructuring: During 1998, the Government will assume
sbout US$880 million of FERTIMEX's debt (approximately 85Z
of its total debt), which will be converted Into equity.
7.        Proljected Financial Performance.  Projected financial performance
for the period 1987-92 is presented in Tables 3 to 6. With the
implementation of the new pricing formula and the financial restructuring
of PeRTISEX's heavy debt, FERTIMEX is expected to become progressively
self-supporting, with all operating losses disappearing by the end of 1992.
In addition, internal cash generation would become sufficient to meet the
equity financing of planned investments and incremental working capital
required to improve FERTIMEX'. liquidity position and meet the targetted
ratios (Table 6). In fact, once the debt has been converted into equity,
FERTIMX will no longer require direct operating and debt service
subsidies. Government transfers to cover part of investment expenses will
also decrease until completely eliminated in 1992. The capital structure
of FERTIMEX would also be healthy during the restructuring period 1987-1992
with long-term debt (minimal after debt restructuring) as a percentage of
total capitalization not expected to exceed 202.
8.        Sensitivity  Analysis.  In addition to the base case where the
price of ammonia is gradually increased to US$140/ton by 1992, projections
have been made on two other scenarios. These scenarios are described below
together with a summary of key results obtained.



ANNEX IX
Pa-ge 4 of 4
Scenario 1: Sulphur, Phosphate Rock and Potassium Chloride
prices kept constant at 1987 levels. The prIce of ammonia is
gradually increased only to US$100/ton by 1991 (estimated to be
the end-1987 export value, FOB Coatzacoalcos).
Scenario 2: Demand for fertilizers is kept constant at 1987
levels.
Summary of Results of Sensitivity Analysis
Base     Scenario  Scenario
Case         1         2
a.  Real Annual Price Increase (%)          17.0        16.4      16.8
b. Govt's Transfers for 1988-90
(US$ milllon)                            504        485        495
The above results show low sensitivity of key results to the various
assumptions made.
Country Department II
Trade, Finance and Industry Sector Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
February 1988



* EXCO
ERTILIZER SECTOR TU8TXWT LOAN
FERTIMKE  BALANCE SHEET - 1982-86
(in current US million)
1982      1983       1984       1985    1986                                                     182       1983       1984       1985   1986
ASSETS                                                                                      LIA8ILITIES MD DQuTtn
Current Assets                                                                               0utrent Labillitiee
Cas  and Ranks                     33.2       22.0       54.9      44.1        8.9          Short ter* loane                       545.1      100.6     201.7      334.6    113.7
A/C Recelvable                     89.8      110.9      139.3     125.9       70.9          A/C Payable                            249.7      158.6     247.2      257.6    176.9
Inventories                       146.6     I51.8      252.0      300-S      208.3          Other                                   23.8       4.4        3.3        2.7       3.0
Total                        269.6      284.7      446.2      470.S      278.1              Total                             818-6      261.6      452.2      594.9    313-6
FIXED AssrsT                                                                              lUG-TERIN LIABILITIES
Property, Plant b Equipment    351.3        786.7   1,714.5   1,364.4   1,563.3             Ltng-Term Debt                        392-8       753.3     706.8      635.6    801.7
"ork In Progress                 941.8   1,256.6   1,080.6   1,000.8         520.4          Other                                    6-3        6.0       -          -         2.0
Less:  Acc. Dept.                     -      (356.2)   (493.9 )  (405.3)   (339.3)                                                     -         -          -
Totnt                             399.1     759.3      706.t      635.6    803.7
Net Fixed Assets          1,293-1   1,687.1   2,301.2   1,959.9   1,744.4
TOTAL LIASIltTIES                      1,217.7   1,022.9   1,359.0   1,230.5  1,117.3
0THER ASSETS
S11*UNOLDERS 20011
lnvest. In aftillatee 6 FeC.   105-7        102.9       92-S       38.8       16.4
Othet                               3.2       2.8        2.6        1.5        3.7          Ptid-In Capittl                        221.7      148.6     111.1        57.6     23.2
Contrtb. to future cap. lcr.          117.5      $24.0      632.1      522.8    335-3
Total Otber                  108.9      105.7       95.1       40.3       20-1          Surplus from anset revaluatton        209.4      584.3   1,117.3       754.7    610.4
Retained saratoa                      (94.7)   (202.3)  (177.1)    (94.9)   (33.5)
TOTAL ASSETS                      1,671-6   2,077.5   2,842.5   2,470.7   2,052.6
-         -                     -                     Total equity                      453.9   1,054.6   1,u3.5   1,240.7    935.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES  E0UtTf             1t,671-6   2,077.5   2,842.5   2,470.7  2,052-6
End of ietted sn. Rate
US$1                             96.5    144.0    192.5    371.7         923.5
[Ig



taxco                          AM=  IX
MFTILIZER SECTi R ADJUSTZ1NT                  Table 2
FERTIMEX - PROFIT AND LOSS STEBENT - HISTORICAL 1982-86
(in current US$ mMllon)
1982      1983       1984     1985    1986
Sales                           474.5      367.8      453.4    451.5   377.5
Cost of Goods Sold              382.0      424.5      570.5    581.1   513.7
Gross Profit/(Loss)              92.5      (56.7)   (117.1)  (129.6) (136.2)
Less:
Selling, General and          99.2       47.2      58.5      85.3    64.1
Admin. Exp.
Cost of Plant Stoppage         9.8        6.3       8.1      13.7     -
OPERATING PROFIT/(LOSS)      (16.5)   (110.2)   (183.7)  (228.6) (200.3)
Less:
Financial Expenses a/         65.9       88.3      74.8      57.4    50.7
Other Expenses/(Inco;e)       83.3       (4.3)    (11.4)    (5.8)  (18.3)
Net Profit/(Loss) before   (165.7)   (194.2)   (247.1)  (28fP,Z) (232.7)
Extraordinary items
Less:
Exchange losses b/             -         11.9       -         -       -
Plus:  Surplus realized           -          -         37.9     81.7    42.4
Plus: Government Subsidy for
- Operational losses
and Finance Charges  -         38.7      179.5    193.9   197.3
-  Exchange losses        _           0.6       0.3       -       -
NET PROVIT/(LOSS)          (165.7)   (167.0)    (29.4)    (4.6)    7.0
Av. ex. rate used                56.4      120.1      167.8    256.9   611.7
US$1
a/ Net of financial income.
b/ Surplus reallsed on depreciation of assets and Inventories as a
result of asset revaluation for inflationary impact.



1U109                         IN~~AMIUH
YRat mSE=  Anusi Imn                              Table 3
F1na21 Uroectiau Of rum=
Profit and L   Statent
1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
-         ( in amatant Dec. 1987 Miik  Peso  )    -
TIOTL SiLES RUUI               697,12  1,105,561  1,274,298 1,446,284 1,656,257 1,930,684
- PRoWcIIO CY                 703,000   865,084   968,981   987,330 1,125,797 1,409,397
- C  OTF  o                 'I   48,180    39,848   111,998  231,297   301,051   131,052
- DISTRIB       COST          218,822   219,358   213,109   200,406   208,533   216,462
COST OF SALES                   970,002 1,124,290 1,294,088 1,469,033 1,635,381 1,756,911
6a0m  E98011                   (S,877)  (18,729)  (19,790)  (22,749)   20,876   173,m
OVUHAD                          114,225   120,483   121,002   115,544   118,962   123,342
OPEAISEnP3                     (387,102) (139,212) (140,792) (138,293)  (98,086)   50,431
FlJNUCIAL CRUM                  175,339    20,831    11,039    10,096    21,860    50,662
N    of PROWMT FM o M          (562,441) (160,043) (151,831) (148,389) (119,946)      (231)
Exchange rate at the end of December 1987: US$1- Kex$2,200



imco|                              AMu    n
FERTIL1ZER SECTOR ADJUSThFE9 LnU                   Table 4
Financial Projections of FERTuD
(In Constant end-December 1987 mllion Pesos)
Funds Flow Statement
SOURCES                                      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1992
Intemi Sourcs
Net inco  after tax, before
operating subsidies                (562,441) (160,043) (151,831) (148,389) (119,946)     (231)
DeprecIatio                           161,673   185,834   190,764   194,436   218,516   268,555
total internal souroes               (400,768)   25,791    38,933    46,047    98,570   268,324
Long-tern Borroeings                       75,914   142,669   243,525   317,333   237,081   115,416
Goverment Transfers                       484,190   684,662   366,602   176,067   102,123         0
TOThL SCURCES                   159,336   853,322   549,060   539,447   437,774   383,740
APPLICATIONS
capital EPeUtumes
Fixed asset                     145,989   263,065   554,855   446,263   273,927   162,479
Capitalized interest              2,920    11,136    39,906    20,393    50,117    34,177
subtotal                   148,909   274,201   594,761   466,656   324,044   196,656
Changes in II,klng Capital           (233,584)  336,615    25,811    52,271    81,653   127,965
imertliztion of Long Term Debt        244,011   242,506    28,488    20,520    32,077    59,119
TbIAL USES                      159,336   853,322   649,060   539,447   437,774   383,740
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Internal Sources                     (400,768)   25,791    38,933    46,047    98,570   268,324
Governent Transfers                   644,779   216,715
Interest on Long ten Debt             150,339     4,000     3,003     4,759    32,203    30,810
subtotal                        394,350   246,506    41,933    50,806   130,773   299,134
hmrtizatirn of Long-tern Debt         244,011   242,506    28,488    20,520    32,077    59,119
Interest on Long-term Debt            150,339     4,000     3,000     4,759    32,203    30,810
subtotal                        394,350   246,506    31,488    25,279    64,280    89,929
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                   1.0       1.0       1.3       2.0       2.0       3.3



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ---------    
V~LZRSCr ADUlU  ULOB                       Table 5
Financial Projectim af FUTUX
Projected Balanc Shet
(in canstant Deca:ber 87 million PYESS)
1987     1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
ASS                                                  ----     ----       _--      ----      ----      ----
Carrent Assets
- Cash & Baks                            15,607    16,639    22,467    33,568    50,265    76,565
- A/C Reoeivele                          64,914   165,834   223,002   289,257   372,658   482,671
- Inventor                              481,494   374,372   393,178   369,250   402,124   474,705
- Otber Debtors                          96,235    96,235    96,235    96,235    96,235    96,235
Totl Current ets                        658,250   653,080   734,883   788,310   921,282 1,130,177
Fixed Ast"
-Property,Plant & eqipint             4,3m,063 4,526,169 5,555,581 5,681,727 6,076,993 6,890,914
- Uok in Progress                     1,295,130 1,302,059   944,993 1,688,560 1,986,936 1,591,874
- less:Icc. Depreciation                936,466 1,122,300 1,313,064 1,507,500 1,726,016 1,994,571
Total Fixed Asset                     4,660,727 4,705,928 5,187,510 5,862,787 6,337,913 6,488,217
Other AMsets                                       33,522    32,389    31,671    27,086    27,769    28,453
TDL mS5 5,352,499 5,391,397 5,954,064 6,678,18  7,286,964 7,646,847
LIIIILlTX  & Ksl1Y
ctent Lilities
- Short ten Debt                        607,600   136,604   165,878   203,747   256,329   241,336
- i/C Paye                              283,651   412,862   439,580   402,867   401,605   506,739
- Otber                                  21,072    21,072    21,072    21,072    21,072    21,072
Total Cument Liablities                 912,323   570,538   626,530   b27,686   679,005   769,147
Lwg Tem Liabilities
- Lg Term Debt                        1,664,400   309,736   606,549   811,552   867,850   797,850
Vi.uL LuBiLnT                          2,576,723   880,274 1,233,079 1,439,238 1,546,855 1,5S66,997
equity
- Paid-in Capital                        21,397    21,397    21,397    21,397    21,397    21,397
- contribution to future
Capital  ease_1/                      979,090 2,874,480 3,236,173 3,902,521 4,523,631 4,863,604
- Suplms frm  Aset revaluation        2,337,730 2,337,730 2,337,730 2,337,730 2,337,730 2,337,730
- IEt Ptofits (Lcs)                    (562,441) (160,043) (151,831) (148,389) (119,946)    (231)
-Aciumlated net profits (lose)         (562,441) (722,484) (874,315)(1,022,704)(1,142,650)(1,142,881)
mu ET ST TM EID                       2,775,776 4,511,123 4,720,985 5,238,944 5,740,108 6,079,850
wIL LulIUn     & Elm                   5,352,499 5,391,397 5,954,064 6,678,183 7,286,964 7,646,847
1g-tem Dbt/Ety + LIg-tum Debt                        0.37     0.06      0.11      0.13     0.13      0.12
-1/ Total incrintal capital contributions betun 1987 and 1992 correspamd
to the an of dbt cvain to equity (b 1940) and of Goverment tranders
to cam  ash qerating and Investmnt _weds.



FERRAIM Sam  AWJM  LOU                           9Table 6
Financial Projections Of M
Moridg caoital Rqrmn
In  llIo  of end-     r 18 Pas
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
TOtIaln bwtril Cost toi lpes                      441,586   516,078   627,971   671,445   803,209 1,013,478
Operating Cb Costs, eding run uterials             608,127   523,844   495,395   447,494   453,427   517,830
Prodution casts, exl3udi   re etedals              321,626   349,016   341,012   315,885   322,587   395,918
Totabl c0b costs of saes1                        1,049,713 1,039,922 1,123,366 1,118,939 1,256,636 1,531,308
Caoh & Banks                              15,607    16,639    22,467    33,568    50,265    76,565
Inenbtory                                481,494   374,372   393,178   369,250   402,124   474,705
Accounts Reosivable                       64,914   165,834   223,002   289,257   372,i58   482,671
Otber debtors                             96,235    96,235    96,235    96,235    96,235    96,235
TOtal Curnl"t Assts                      658,250   653,080   734,883   788,310   921,282 1,130,177
Cm - Mk [TR
Siort term debt                          607,600   136,604   165,878   203,747   256,329   241,336
Aounwmts Payable                         283,651   412,862   439,580   402,867   401,605   506,739
Other sIhort tenm llabilities             21,072    21,072    21,072    21,072    21,072    21,072
Total Curent Labilitiss                  912,323   570,538   626,530   671,686   679,005   769,147
*kng Capital                            (254,073)   82,542   108,53   160,623   242,276   361,030
Cdng in WC                              (233,584)  336,615    25,811    52,m     81,653   118,754
Curruit ainuo                               0.7       1.1       1.2       1.3       1.4       1.5
0014* RuaIo                                 0.2       0.5       0.5       0.7       0.8       0.9



ANNEX X
qgw- Tuf 2
MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Distribution Study
Terms of Reference and Study Arrangements
Obiectives
1.       The objective of the study would be to determine, on a regional
basis, the modalities of implementation of the Government policy oft
(a) withdrawal of PERTIMEX from secondary distribution operations and
concentration of its action at the level of up to 120 primary warehouses;
(b) elimination of consignment sales; and (c) establishment or maintenance of
a limited number of retail outlets in marginal areas where, because of
transport bottlenecks or other obstacles to competition, there is a chance of
speculative increases.
Hethdolody
2.       The study would, be carried out in two phases:  The first Phase, which
would last about three months, wouldt (a) identify the regions where
implementation of the Government policy of withdrawal from secondary and
consignment sales could start immediately; (b) establish a regional calendar
of more in-depth studies of the most appropriate modalities and timing for
carrying-out the Government policy in the more problematic areas (full
implementation to be completed no later than by the end of 1992); (c) define
criteria to select, establish, maintain or withdraw retail outlets in marginal
areas; and (d) formulate new commercial policies so that other distribution
agents have the necessary incentive to take charge of secondary distribution
without consignment.
3.       With respect to (d) above, recommendations would be made in the
following respects:
(a) optimum timing for setting up ex-FERTIMEX's prices at the level of
120 sales points, i.e. whether this should be done immediately and in
the whole country or as implementation proceeds in the various
region. This aspect is particularly critical because distributors are
not likely to express interest unless (i) they can purchase from
FERTsIMEX's primary warehouses at a clearly determined price;
(ii) FERTIMEX, on its remaining secondary sales, charges a price
equivalent to this ex-primary warehouse price plus the costs of its
own secondary disoribution (including a return); and (iii) other
distributors are allowed to determine their selling price. In this
context, the study would analyze the feasibility of identifying a
network of primary selling points to be used immediately as a basis
for establishing the ex-primary warehouse prices;



ANNEX X
Page 2of 2
(b)- conditions of payment and  systems of discounts for early take-off of
fertilizer by other agents, in order to provide them incentives for
purchasing fertilizer for their own account and storing it in the
consuming areas as early as possible; and
(c) regular (monthly) adjustments of fertilizer prices to reflect
inflation, necessary to avoid artificial encouragement to the
purchase of fertilizer as late as possible in the season.
4.       In a second phase, more in depth studies would be undertaken of the
more problematic areas, according to the calendar of regional studies
established during the first phase. These studies would include a review of
the present situation in these areas with respect to present and potential
fertilizer use, dispersion of users, distribution channels and infrastructure,
transportation problems and other factors which may limit, or on the contrary
promote, competitive pressure among potential distributors from and outside
the area. Based on this diagnostic and on the criteria established as part of
the first phase, a list of FERTIMEX's retail outlets in marginal areas will be
established. In the rest of the areas, a calendar of implementation of the
Government policy will be proposed. In this phase of the study, the need for
any necessary additional infrastructure in primary warehouses will also be
identified to complete the network of up to 120 warehouses (final decision,
however, will depend on confirmation of the economic viability of the proposed
investments).
TiminQ
5.       The first phase of the study would be completed no later than by the
end of June 1988 and implementation of its recommendations in non-problem
areas would start immediately after these recommendations have been reviewed
and accepted by the Government and the Bank.
6.       The second phase of the study would be completed by the end of
December 1988 and its recommendations and timetable for their implementation
would be forwarded to the Government and the Bank for review. Implementation
of the recommendations would start immediately after they have been approved
by the Government and the Bank. The calendar for implementation will allow
the full implementation of the Government policy in no more then four years,
i.e. no later than by the end of 1992.
Study arrangements
7.       FERTIMEX will be responsible for carrying-out the study.  For that
purpose, it will contract qualified consultants acceptable to the Government
and to the Bank. The consultants will work in close coordination with the
staff of FERTIMEX, in particular of the commercial and planning directions of
FERTIMEX.
February 1988



ANNEX XI
MEXICO                               FPage 1 of 4
FERTILIZER SECTOR MMRM  WAN
Orsanization Study of FERTIMEX
Terms of Reference. Study arrangements and Droposed calendar
1.        INTRODUCTION
Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A., is an enterprise owned by the federal
government. As a supplier of agricultural inputs, it is regarded as a
priority enterprise.
The fertilizer industry in Mexico has #eveloped through a series of
staget;, starting out with the establishment of Empresa Guanos y Fertilizantes
de Mexico, S.A., (GUANOMEX) in 1943, which began manufacturing chemical
fertilizer locally in 1948.
Around the middle of the fifties, wishing to stimulate agricultural
production, the federal government granted facilities to encourage private
initiative to participate in this industry, but the different objectives and
policies of the enterprises concerned, as well as their desire to compete for
the largest markets, prevented the formulation of plans that could cover the
entire s6ctor and satisfactorily meet agricultural requirements at the
national level.
In this situation, the federal government decided that those
enterprises should gradually merge with GUANOMEX. This stage was completed
with the incorporation of Fertilizantes Fosfatados Mexicanos, S.A., which
changed its name to Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A. in 1978. There followed a
period of consolidation, which served to lay the foundations for planning and
development of the industry nationwide.
To date, FERTIMEX has implemented a broad-based program designed to
solve the structural problems that still persist, through financial
rehabilitation and modernization of its production, commercial and
administrative apparatus.
As part of this modernization process, and also as a condition of
lending by the World Bank, which supports the reconversion program, FERTIMEX
has decided to carry out an organizational study to determine the most
appropriate administrative structure for its future operations. The present
document sets forth the general criteria for the formulation of alternatives
and selection of the most appropriate one, assigning responsibilities for the
study and establishing the timetable for its execution.
2.        FRAME OF REFERENCE
The organizational structure to be adopted by FERTIMEX should comply
with the following points:
-    Adhere fully to the existing legal framework (laws, regulations,
decrees, resolutions, rules, etc.).
-    Be consistent with the mission and objectives of the enterprise and
any changes dictated by the federal government.



AXMx
Page 2 of 4
-    Be compatible with the industrial reconversion programs and the
needs of the domestic agricultural sector.
-    Make optimum use of FERTIMEX' resources (eliminate overlapping of
functions, rationalize organizational structure and labor force,
etc.), in conformity with the pertinent policies and guidelines laid
down by the federal government.
-    Be compatible with the results of the marketing study.
3.        PROGRESS OF THE STUDY
The study is to be executed in two stages. Tne f'rst will cover the
formulation, analysis and evaluation of alternatives and seCection of the most
appropriate one.
Once the organizational structure has been approved, a start will be
made on the second stage of the study, which will prepare the necessary
adjustments for its implementation.
3.1  Stage 1
3.1.1 Formulation of alternatives.
The alternatives to be analyzed will include, but not be limited to,
those given below:
(a) Basically retain the present structure and continue with
regional decentralization of responsibilities at the plant and
sales zone levels, in which the central administration will
retain its regulatory functions.
(b) Same as (a), but without the consignment sales system, and
considering withdrawing the enterprise from the secondary
distribution network.
(c) Establishment of regional autonomous "utility" centers,
comprising two options:
- Divide the enterprise into several independent production and
d'stribution companies.
- Establish subsidiaries controlled by FERTINEX.
3.1.2 Analysis and evaluation of alternatives.
The general criteria for analysis and evaluation of the various
alternatives are as follows:
(1) Feasibility of execution using FERTIMEX' resources.
(2) Degree to which each alternative favors administrative
decentralization and facilitates decision-making.



w   XX
Page 3 of 4
(3)  Extent to which each alternative promotes enhanced efficiency
in the utilization of resources and familiarity with the
economic results of operations at the industrial plant and
buffer-stock warehouse levels.
(4) Socioeconomic impact on the agricultural sector.
(5) racentive and reward policies at both management and white- and
blue-collar levels.
(6) Compatibility of assignments, functions, structure, guidelines
and initial rules.
(7) Justification for keeping subsidiaries unrelated to fertilizer
activities.
3.1.3 Selection of the best alternative.
The most appropriate alternative will be selected on the basis of an
analysis of the overall changes required in the systems, processes and
procedures of FERTIMEX, and recommendations will be made to its senior
management.
3.2 Stage 2
Once the most suitable alternative has been selected by the
decision-making organs of FERTIMEX, in agreement with SEMIP, SARH, SPP, SHCP,
SECOFI and SECOGEF, a start will be made on the second stage of the study,
which will include the program for implementation, based on the
organizational adjustments propoeoJ, including those related to the following
points:
-    Analysis of the prevailing cost accounting system and proposal of
the necessary adjustments. This analysis will include the
accounting norms for rate of return measurement.
-    Proposal of a management information system suited to the proposed
organization and to the management functions of supervision and
strategic planning.
-    Analysis of all necessary changes in the production, service and
personnel functions related to the alternative selected, and the
changes required in job accountabilities and reporting procedures
and the lines of authority for mid-level and senior positions; and
staffing levels.
-    Proposal of a performance bonus system for management and personnel
participating in achievement of the objectives, with a view to
generating minimum cost reductions and obtaining the best economic
results on its operations.
-    Proposals for divestiture of subsidiaries, if warranted.
The proposed alternative must take into account the results of the
marketing study, with which the reorganization must be compatible.



ANNSY
4.   ESTABLISHMENT OF TASK FORCE
Preparation of the organizational study of FERTIMEX must adhere to
the policies and general criteria set forth in these terms of reference. The
Structural Analy6is of advantages and disadvantages, the selection analysis
and the final proposal will be the responsibility of a high-level task force,
composed of personnel in the key areas of the enterprise, which will report
directly to its senior management.
This task force will be supported by a firm of qualified
consultants, which will advise it at the various stages of the study.
5.   EXECUTION TIMETABLE
The task force will be set up no later than one month following
signature of the loan agreement with the World Bank, so that a start may be
made on the study.
Periodic progress reviews wili be made. The first stage of the
study will run through the end of the third quarter of 1988, and the
respective report should be completed by the end of 1988.
Following approval by the Director General of FERTIMEX, the report
will be submitted for consideration by the federal government. If no
amendments are required, a start will be made on the second stage of the
study, which should be completed before the second half of 1989.
Country Department ii
Trade, Finance and Industry Sector Operations Division
Latin America andithe Caribbean Regional Office
February 19, 1988



.JENEX XII
PERTILIZER SECTOR WJVSTHMT LOAN
List of Documents Available Ln the Project File
A. - Contract ("Convenio') between the Governament and fERTINEX.
B. - Contract between FERTIMEX and PER=X.
C.   -   eas±tblity Studies for Investments in Varehouseo.
D.   -  Feasibility Studies for Investments in Maritime Termainals.
E.   -  Feasibility Studies for Investments in Ammonia Terminals
F.   -  Feasibility Studies for Plant Rehabilitation Investments.
G.   -  Feasibility Stuuy for the Pajaritos Nitric Acid an4 Ammonium
Nitrate Plants.
R. - Upgrading FERTIMEX's Planning Capabilities. Scope and Costs of
Required Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment.
I,   -  Detailed Financial Projections - FERTIMEX



MAP SECTION



go X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD:
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                            MEXICO
FERTILIZER SECTOR LOAN
PROJECT INVESTMENTS
ff~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mncpa OI. w    ---
-    DMd H%l."
S $ id- Mon Roo&
ftkn
, .  _-,IndpAkpo
F- -t   '. .4. &dhot- -                                         3  
20*~~~~~~2
KIIIOIMCTUS0   ICI CO  ICO3  40,500C                                          '- v4Boto*+){L                                 y
- , = . 8 J ~~~~~~~~HONDURAS
,10
JULY ¶097



