Page  1
                                          September 26, 1989
Mr. Enrique Vilatela
Director General de Captacion de Credito Publico
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio Nacional
06066 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Mr. Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
Director Internacional
Direccion Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza NAFINSA
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre Sur, 9o.  Piso
Col.  Guadalupe Inn, Del.  Alvaro Obregon
CP 01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Mr. Manuel Cadena Morales
Director General
Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
Calle la Morena 804, Piso 11
03020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Dear Sirs:
      Re:   Loan No. 2919-ME (Fertilizer Sector Loan) Amendment
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) dated June 13, 1988, to the
Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith between the United
Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, and to the Project
Agreement of even date therewith between the Bank and Fertilizantes
Mexicanos, S.A. We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your
request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees
to amend the Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements, as follows:
I.    Loan Agreement
      (1)   Section 1.02 (i) of the Loan Agreement is amended to
read in its entirety as follows:
            "(i) "Plant Closure Program" means the program referred
            to in Section 2.10 (a) of the Project Agreement and
            includes the 1988 Plant Closure Program and the 1989
            Plant Closure Program; "1988 Plant Closure Program"
            means the program of closings the following plants
            during 1988: Tecun Uman Complex Fertilizer Plant and
            Coatzacoalcos Phosphoric Acid Plant; and "1989 Plant
            Closure Program" means the program of closing the
            Monclova Phosphoric Acid Plant during 1989."
      (2)   A new paragraph 4 is added to Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement to read as follows:
            "4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment
            shall be, entered into to pay amounts to, or on order
            of, the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
            financed under the First Tranche unless the Bank shall
            be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
            Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement and Section 2.05
            of the Project Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory
Page  2
            to the Bank, that the actions described in Schedule 1 to
            the Guarantee Agreement have been taken."
      (3)   The former paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement is renumbered as "5" and is amended by deleting the words
"the Schedule" in clause (ii) thereof and substituting the words
"Schedule 2" therefor.
      (4)   The former paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement is renumbered as "6" and is amended (i) by deleting the
word "paragraph" in the first line thereof and substituting the
words "paragraphs 4 and 5" therefor; and (ii) by deleting the words
"paragraph 4" in the fourth line thereof and substituting the words
"such paragraphs 4 and 5" therefor.
      (5)   The words "and 1989" are added after "1988" in paragraph
1 of Part C of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
II.   Guarantee Agreement
      (1)   Section 3.06 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement is amended
to read in its entirety as follows:
            "Section 3.06. (a) The Guarantor shall cause the prices
            for domestically produced ammonia paid by FERTIMEX to
            PEMEX to increase in order to achieve the following
            percentages of the export price for ammonia, by the
            dates listed below:
      Percentages of Export
      Price for Ammonia                   By
(i)         40%                           January 1, 1990
(ii)        42.5%                         March 31, 1990
(iii)       50%                           December 31, 1990
(iv)        60%                           December 31, 1991
(v)         70%                           December 31, 1992
(vi)        80%                           December 31, 1993
     For purposes of this paragraph "export price for ammonia" means
the average of prices prevailing during the previous twelve months
preceding a price increase, for ammonia exported by PEMEX (F.  O. B.
Coatzacoalcos) , of if PEMEX does not export ammonia in a particular
month, the price prevailing for such month f or ammonia purchased at
United States Gulf ports (F. 0. B. U. S. , Gulf Coast Price) minus
ten dollars."
      (2)   Section 3.06 (b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement is
amended to read in its entirety as follows:
            "(ii) such fertilizer prices to be increased by at least
            18.8% in nominal peso terms no later than September 30,
            1989;"
      (3)   Section 3.06 (b) (iii) of the Guarantee Agreement is
amended by deleting the reference to the year 1988 in the second
line thereof and substituting the year "1989" therefor.
      (4)   Section  3.09  (a)  of  the  Guarantee  Agreement is
amended  by deleting the words "the Schedule" therefrom and
substituting the words "Schedule 1  and Schedule 2" therefor.
      (5)   A new Section 3.10 is added to the Guarantee Agreement
to read as follows:
     "Section 3.10.  The Guarantor shall: (i) no later than
September 30, 1989, cause the prices for domestically produced
sulfur paid by FERTIMEX to domestic suppliers to be increased to the
level of the export price of sulfur; and (ii) thereafter cause such
prices to be maintained at such level.  For purposes of this Section
the term "export price of sulfur" has the same meaning as so defined
in Section 2.10 (c) (iii) of the Project Agreement adjusted,
Page  3
however, for differences in quality."
      (6)   A new Schedule 1 is a added to the Guarantee Agreement
to read as follows:
                            "SCHEDULE 1
             Actions to be taken Prior to Availability
                       of the First Tranche
            1.    That the Guarantor shall have complied with the
obligations of Sections 3.06 (b) (ii) and 3.10 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
            2.    That FERTIMEX shall have initiated, and made
progress satisfactory to the Bank in carrying out, the studies under
Parts C (1), C (2) and C (3) of the Project.
            3.    That FERTIMEX shall have initiated the process of
withdrawing from retail and consignment operations."
      (7)   The Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement relating to the
Actions to be Taken Prior to the Availability of the Second Tranche
is renamed as "Schedule 2" and is amended as follows:
            (i)   Paragraph I is amended to read as follows:
                  "1. FERTIMEX shall have implemented the 1988
                  Plant Closure Program and the 1989 Plant Closure
                  Program."
            (ii)  Paragraph 3 is amended to read as follows: "3 (i)
                  FERTIMEX shall have implemented the Investment
                  Program for 1989; and (ii) the Bank is satisfied
                  that the Investment Program for 1990 meets the
                  investment criteria stated in Section
                  2.09  of the Project Agreement."
            (iii) Paragraph 4 (a) is amended by deleting the
                  reference to "Section 3.06 (a) (i)" and
                  substituting "Section 3.06 (a) (ii)" therefor.
III.   Project Agreement
      (1)   Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement is amended by
deleting the words "the Schedule" therefrom and substituting the
words "Schedule 1 and 2" therefor.
      (2)   Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement is amended to read
in its entirety as follows:
            "Section 2.06. FERTIMEX  in  conjunction  with  the
            Guarantor,  shall:
            (a)   by December 15, 1989, complete the first phase of
                  the study described in Part C.1 of the Project,
                  under terms of reference satisfactory to the
                  Bank, and promptly thereafter discuss the results
                  thereof with the Guarantor and the Bank;
            (b)   initiate the process of withdrawing from
                  consignment and retail operations by no later
                  than October 15, 1989;
            (c)   by March 15, 1990, complete the second phase of
                  such study, under terms of reference satisfactory
                  to the Bank, and based on the results of such
                  study, propose a plan of action, acceptable to
                  the Bank, to withdraw from fertilizer retail and
                  consignment operations, and complete the carrying
                  out of such plan of action by no later than
                  December 31, 1992; and
Page  4
            (d)   by February 28, 1990 cease fertilizer consignment
                  and retail operations with aggregate sales volume
                  equivalent to no less than 10% of all FERTIMEX
                  sales of solid fertilizers in 1987."
      (3)   The  dates set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and
(d) of Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement are deleted and
replaced by the following:
      "September 15, 1989" in paragraph (a);
      "January 15, 199011 in paragraph (b);
      "February 28, 1990" in paragraph (c); and
      "July 30, 1990" in paragraph (d).
      (4)   The date set forth in Section 2.08 of the Project
Agreement is deleted and replaced by "November 30, 1989."
      (5)   Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement is amended to read
in its entirety as follows:
      "Section 2.10  (a)  FERTIMEX  shall  carry  out  the  Plant
Closure Program in accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the
Bank.
      (b)   (i)   FERTIMEX shall, for each of its ammonium sulfate
                  plants located at Guadalajara, Queretaro and
                  Coatzacoalcos, calculate, for each month
                  beginning in February 1989, the ratio of the
                  import price of ammonium sulfate to the aggregate
                  of the cost of sulfur and the cost of ammonia
                  used in the production of ammonium sulfate in
                  each such plant, and provide to the Bank, at
                  three months intervals beginning in April 1989,
                  the results of such calculation, including all
                  documents, records and other evidence in support
                  of such calculation as the Bank may reasonably
                  request.
            (ii)  If the ratio for any month calculated pursuant to
                  the provisions of subparagraph (i) of this
                  Section falls below the following limits:
                        1.00 for the Guadalajara ammonium sulfate
                        plant;
                        0.94 for the Queretaro ammonium sulfate
                        plant; and
                        0.97 for the Coatzacoalcos ammonium sulfate
                        plant;
                  FERTIMEX shall undertake from such month onward
                  and every month thereafter, until such time as
                  agreed by the Bank, a detailed analysis, under a
                  methodology acceptable to the Bank, of the costs
                  and benefits of operating each such ammonium
                  sulfate plant for the purpose of determining the
                  net benefit of each such plant.
            (iii) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (v) of
                  this paragraph, if the net benefit for any of the
                  Guadalajara, Queretaro or Coatzacolacos ammonioum
                  sulfate plants is negative by more than 7.5
                  percent of the import cost of ammonioum sulfate
                  for four consecutive months, FERTIMEX shall,
                  within eight months thereafter, stop operating
                  such plant.  If, however, after taking all
                  necessary actions to improve operating results
                  within this eight-month period, the net benefit
                  becomes positive, or negative by less than 7.5
                  percent of the import cost of ammonium sulfate
                  during three consecutive months, according to
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank, FERTIMEX shall
                  not be required to stop operating such plants.
Page  5
                  If operations of any of such plants have been
                  stopped, FERTIMEX shall not restart operation
                  until it provides the Bank with evidence
                  satisfactory to the Bank that such plant shall
                  attain positive net benefit for a continuous
                  period of a least three months.
            (iv)  If pursuant to the application of subparagraph
                  (iii) of this paragraph, any of the Guadalajara,
                  Queretaro or Coatzacolacos ammonium sulfate
                  plants stops operating, FERTIMEX shall also
                  simultaneously stop operating the respective
                  Guadalajara, Queretaro or Coatzacolacos plants
                  producing sulfuric acid for such ammonium sulfate
                  plant unless financially viable alternative uses
                  and markets shall have been found and contracts
                  for the sale of such sulfuric acid for such
                  alternative uses have been entered into.  For the
                  purposes of this subparagraph, the term
                  "financially viable" means that the Bank has been
                  provided with evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
                  that net revenues from projected sales of
                  sulfuric acid produced by such plants for the
                  alternate uses and markets found, are at least
                  equal to the sum of all expenses related to
                  operations; the terms "net revenues" and
                  "expenses related to operations" have the same
                  meanings as defined in Section 4.02 of this
                  Agreement.
            (v)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph
                  (iii) of this paragraph, FERTIMEX shall not be
                  required to stop operating the Coatzacoalcos
                  ammonium sulfate plant pursuant to the
                  application of such paragraph within the eight-
                  month period therein indicated if FERTIMEX
                  provides the Bank with evidence, satisfactory to
                  the Bank, within such period, that it has entered
                  into a long-term contract for the purchase of by-
                  product sulfuric acid at a price such that the
                  net benefit of producing ammonium sulfate at such
                  plant is positive, or negative by less that 7. 5
                  percent of the cost of importing ammonium
                  sulfate.  If the Coatzacoalcos ammonium sulfate
                  plant does not stop operating as a result of the
                  application of this subparagraph, FERTIMEX shall
                  nevertheless be required to stop operating the
                  respective sulfuric acid plant pursuant to the
                  provisions of subparagraph (v) of this paragraph.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   the term "import price of ammonium sulfate" for
                  any month means the average of FOB US Gulf Coast
                  prices for ammonium sulfate quoted for the
                  preceding six months in international
                  publications, acceptable to the Bank; provided,
                  however, that if FERTIMEX presents evidence,
                  satisfactory to the Bank, that quotations
                  obtained by FERTIMEX on the international market
                  for the corresponding months are above the import
                  price of ammonium sulfate, such quotations
                  obtained by FERTIMEX shall be taken into account;
            (ii)  the term "cost of sulfur" means the quantity of
                  sulfur used in the production of one metric ton
                  of ammonium sulfate times the export price of
                  sulfur;
            (iii) the term "export price of sulfur" for any month
                  means the average of FOB Coatzacoalcos prices for
                  sulfur quoted in international publications,
Page  6
                  acceptable to the Bank, for the preceding six
                  months; should there be no quotations for that
                  location, the export price will be taken as the
                  price FOB US Gulf less US$5 per metric ton;
            (iv)  the term "cost of ammonia" means the quantity of
                  ammonia used in the production of one metric ton
                  of ammonium sulfate times the export price of
                  ammonia;
            (v)   the term "export price of ammonia" for any month
                  means the average of FOB Coatzacoalcos prices for
                  ammonia quoted in international publications,
                  acceptable to the Bank, for the preceding six
                  months; should there be no quotation in that
                  location, the export price will be taken as the
                  price FOB US Gulf less US$10 per metric ton;
            (vi)  the calculation of the cost of producing ammonium
                  sulfate shall be based on the export price of
                  sulfur and the export price of ammonia as herein
                  defined, provided, however, that where sulfuric
                  acid is purchased under a long-term contract
                  pursuant to the provisions of paragraph b (v) of
                  this section, the price of sulfuric acid under
                  such contract shall be taken into account;
            (vii) the term "import cost of ammonium sulfate" means
                  the sum of the import price of ammonium sulfate
                  and the cost of transporting such ammonium
                  sulfate to major distribution points; and
           (viii) the term "net benefit" means the difference
                  between the import cost of ammonium sulfate and
                  the aggregate of the cost of producing ammonium
                  sulfate and the cost of transporting such
                  ammonium sulfate to major distribution points.
      Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the duplicate original of this letter enclosed
herewith and returning the same to us.  The provisions of this
amendment will become effective on the date the Loan Agreement is
declared effective, or on the last date a party confirms its
agreement to this amendment, whichever is later.
                         Sincerely yours,
                     By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                             Director
                       Country Department II
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
                              Region
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Act. Enrique Vilatela Riba
   Authorized Representative
   Director General de Captacion de
   Credito Externo
Date Octubre 6, 1989
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.C.
By /s/ Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
   Authorized Representative
   Director Internacional
Page  7
Date: Octubre 4, 1989
FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
By /s/ Ing. Manuel Cadena
   Authorized Representative
   Director General
Date:  Octubre 3, 1989
cc.   Mr. Alfredo Elias Ayub
      Subsecretario de Minas e Industria Basica
      Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal
      Insurgentes Sur 552 - Piso 4
      Colonia Roma Sur
      Mexico D.F.
      Mr. Luis Nava
      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
      1615 L Street, NW, suite 310
      Washington DC 20036
