Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2919 ME
                     (Fertilizer Sector Loan)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        Dated June 13, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  13,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated February 25,
1988 (the Fertilizer Sector Policy Letter) from the UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor),  describing  a  program of actions, objec-
tives  and  policies  designed  to  achieve  adjustments  to,  and
restructuring of, the  Guarantor's  fertilizer sector (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring  the  Guarantor's commitment to the
execution of the Program  and  requesting assistance from the Bank
in financing  imports,  works  and  services  required during such
execution;
     (B)  the Guarantor, the  Borrower and FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS
S.A. (FERTIMEX) having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
Page  2
     (C)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  other  obligations  as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;
     (D)  by an agreement  (the  Project  Agreement)  of even date
herewith between the Bank and  FERTIMEX,  the latter has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications set forth below, con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
          such later date as may  be  agreed upon for this purpose
          between the Guarantor and  the  Bank, the Guarantor, the
          Borrower and FERTIMEX shall  prepare  and furnish to the
          Bank, a report, of such scope  and in such detail as the
          Bank shall reasonably request,  on  the execution of the
          Program referred to in  the  Preamble to the Loan Agree-
          ment, the carrying out  of  the Project, the performance
          by the Guarantor, the Borrower, FERTIMEX and the Bank of
          their respective obligations  under  the Guarantee, Loan
          and Project Agreements,  and  the  accomplishment of the
          purposes of the Loan."
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "FERTIMEX" means Fertilizantes  Mexicanos,  S.A., a com-
pany established and wholly owned by the Guarantor;
     (c)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and FERTIMEX, of even date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental thereto;
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and FERTIMEX pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto;
     (e)  "FERTIMEX Convenio"  means  the  contractual arrangement
to  be  entered  into  between  the  Guarantor  and  FERTIMEX,  in
accordance with Section  3.05(i)  of  the  Guarantee Agreement and
Section 2.04 (a)(ii) of the Project Agreement;
     (f)  "PEMEX" means Petroleos  Mexicanos,  the national petro-
leum company, established and wholly owned by the Guarantor;
Page  3
     (g)  "PEMEX Agreement" means the contract, to be entered into
between PEMEX and FERTIMEX, in accordance with Section 3.05(ii) of
the Guarantee Agreement  and  Section  2.04(a)(iii) of the Project
Agreement;
     (h)  "Investment Program" means the investment program refer-
red to in Section 2.09 (a) the Project Agreement;
     (i)  "Plant Closure  Program"  means  the  program  to reduce
total production capacity of  fertilizer and fertilizer intermedi-
ates, referred to in Section 2.10 (a) the Project Agreement;
     (j)  "Pricing Actions" means the  actions  to be taken by the
Guarantor pursuant to  Sections  3.06  and  3.07  of the Guarantee
Agreement;
     (k)  "QRs"  means  quantitative  restrictions  placed  by the
Guarantor on imported goods and materials;
     (l)  "Official Reference Prices"  means  the reference prices
for imported goods and materials published by the Guarantor;
     (m)  "Non-tariff Barriers"  means  any  form  of restriction,
other than the  levy  of  a  tariff,  on imports, including, inter
alia, QRs and restriction  by  means  of Official Reference Prices
and import permits;
     (n)  "First Tranche" means  disbursements  of the proceeds of
the Loan for eligible imported  goods  under Part A of the Project
up to an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000,000;
     (o)  "Second Tranche" means disbursements  of the proceeds of
the Loan for eligible imported  goods  under Part A of the Project
in excess of the equivalent of $100,000,000;
     (p)  "General Imports" means  the  imported  goods defined in
paragraph 2(c)(i)(A) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (q)  "Fertilizer Imports" means  the  imported fertilizer raw
materials and finished products defined in paragraph 2(c)(i)(B) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (r)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3),  published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/REV.3 (1986);
     (s)  "Fiscal Year" means  the  fiscal  year of the Guarantor,
the Borrower or FERTIMEX, as the  case  may be, each of which cur-
rently begins on January 1 of each year;
     (t)  "Pacto  de  Solidaridad  Economica"  means  the Economic
Solidarity Pact signed  on  December  15,  1987  by the Guarantor,
representatives of farmer and labor organizations, and the private
sector establishing a system for setting and maintaining prices of
certain products and commodities; and
     (u)  "peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
sixty-five million dollars ($265,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made  or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be  made  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
Page  4
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars, a  Special Account on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be  made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
               Subsidiary Lending, Transfer of Funds
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The  Borrower  shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor provid-
ing, inter alia, for:  (i)  the  transfer  to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan for carrying  out  Part A of the Project; and
(ii) the transfer by the  Guarantor  to the Borrower of such funds
as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal interest and other charges  on  the Loan with respect to
Part A of the Project.
     (b) The Borrower  shall  lend  the  proceeds  of  the Loan to
FERTIMEX for purposes of carrying out Parts B and C of the Project
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  FERTIMEX  and that shall
include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions:
Page  5
          (i)  the interest rate to  be  charged  on funds lent to
               FERTIMEX shall be  variable  and  shall  be set and
               readjusted in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
               Section 2.05 of this  Agreement; FERTIMEX shall pay
               a fee of 10% of  such  interest rate on all amounts
               withdrawn and outstanding to the Borrower;
         (ii)  such funds lent   shall have an amortization period
               not to exceed 15  years,  including a maximum grace
               period of three years; and
        (iii)  such funds lent to FERTIMEX shall be denominated in
               dollars.
     (c)  Except as the  Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such contrac-
tual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, or
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.03. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement,
the Bank and the  Borrower  hereby  agree that the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions  (relating  respectively  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) for the Project shall be carried
out by the Borrower with respect to  Part A of the Project, and by
FERTIMEX with respect to Parts B  and C of the Project pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, the Special Account, and separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect,  in  accordance  with  sound accounting prac-
tices, the resources and expenditures in  respect of Part A of the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the accounts,  referred  to  in (a) above, in-
               cluding the Special  Account,  for each fiscal year
               audited  in  accordance   with  generally  accepted
               auditing  standards   and  procedures  consistently
               applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified statements
               of the Special Account; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing such Accounts, and  the  audit thereof and said
               records as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c) For all expenditures  under  Part  A  of the Project with
respect to which withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
Page  6
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  that a situation has arisen which shall make it improba-
ble that the  Program,  or  a  significant  part  thereof, will be
carried out;
     (b)  that as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of  this  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that FERTIMEX will be able
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
     (c)  that FERTIMEX shall have  failed  to  perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
     (d)  FERTIMEX,  or  any  authority  having  jurisdiction over
FERTIMEX, shall have taken any  action for the dissolution or dis-
establishment of FERTIMEX or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that: (i) the event specified  in subparagraph (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall  occur,  or  (ii)  that  any of the events
specified in subparagraph (c)  of  Section  5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continued for a period of sixty days.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower and  the  Guarantor shall have entered
into the contractual arrangements referred  to in Section 3.01 (a)
of this Agreement;
     (b)  that the Borrower and  FERTIMEX  shall have entered into
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  that the Guarantor and  FERTIMEX shall have entered into
the FERMITEX Convenio; and
     (d)  that FERTIMEX  and  PEMEX  shall  have  entered into the
Page  7
PEMEX Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement  have been executed and duly authorized
by, and are legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance
with their respective terms;
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and
duly authorized by, and is  legally binding upon, the Borrower and
FERTIMEX in accordance with its terms;
     (c)  that the Project  Agreement  has  been executed and duly
authorized by, and is legally binding upon, FERTIMEX in accordance
with its terms;
     (d)  that the FERTIMEX  Convenio  has  been executed and duly
authorized by, and  is  legally  binding  upon,  the Guarantor and
FERTIMEX, in accordance with its terms; and
     (e)  that the  PEMEX  Agreement  has  been  executed and duly
authorized by, and is legally  binding  upon FERTIMEX and PEMEX in
accordance with its terms.
     Section  6.03.  The  date   September  12,  1988,  is  hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Director  Internacional  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Direccion Internacional
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza NAFINSA
          Insurgentes Sur 1971
          Torre Sur, 9o Piso
          CP 01020 Mexico, D.F.
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               NAFIN                            NAFIME 383-1775765
               Mexico City                      Mexico City
Page  8
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Barber B. Conable
                                                         President
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                    By /s/ Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Eligible Imports        200,000,000        100% of foreign
     under Part A                               expenditures
     of the Project
(2)  Goods under              30,800,000        100% of foreign
     Parts B and C                              expenditures;
     of the Project                             100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost);
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Civil Works under        32,800,000        100% of foreign
     Part B of the                              expenditures; and
     Project                                    80% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Consultants'              1,400,000        100%
     services,
     training and
     studies under
     Part C of the
     Project
                             ___________
        TOTAL                265,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
Page  9
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor; and
     (c)  the term "Eligible Imports":
          (i)  for purposes of disbursements of the proceeds of the
               Loan under the First Tranche, means:
               (A)  expenditures made  for  the  reasonable cost of
                    imported goods required during the execution of
                    the Program in 1988  to  be financed out of the
                    proceeds of  the  Loan  ("General Imports"), up
                    to an amount  not  to  exceed  to equivalent of
                    $50,000,000; and
               (B)  expenditures made for  fertilizer raw materials
                    and  finished  products  ("Fertilizer Imports")
                    included in the following list:
                    Raw Materials:
                    Phosphate rock
                    Potassium chloride
                      (Standard)
                    Sulfur
                    Finished Products:
                    Urea
                    Ammonium sulfate
                    Ammonium nitrate
                    Diammonium phosphate
                    Monoammonium phosphate
                    Potassium chloride
                      (Granulated)
                    Potassium sulfate
                    Complex fertilizers
                    Triple superphosphate
                    Phosphoric acid
                    Potassium nitrate; and
         (ii)  for purposes  of  disbursement  of  proceeds of the
               Loan under  the  Second  Tranche,  means Fertilizer
               Imports purchased utilizing  the international com-
               petitive bidding procedures set forth in Section I,
               Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a) expenditures for  goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group         Sub-Group         Description of Items
     112           -                 Alcoholic beverages
     121           -                 Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                     tobacco refuse
     122           -                 Tobacco, manufactured
                                     whether or not containing
                                     tobacco substitutes)
     525           -                 Radioactive and associated
                                     materials
Page  10
     667           -                 Pearls, precious and semi-
                                     precious stones, unworked or
                                     worked
     718           718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                     thereof, fuel elements
                                     (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                     nuclear reactors
     897           897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                     platinum group metals (except
                                     watches and watch cases) and
                                     goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                     wares (including set gems)
     971           -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in the  currency  of  the Guarantor, or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000  may  be made on account of
expenditures for Fertilizer  Imports  before  that  date but after
January 1, 1988;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
     (e)  expenditure for goods intended  for  a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
4.   No withdrawals  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to  or on order of Borrower in respect
of expenditures to be financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan,
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account and the total  amount  of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of $100,000,000 under Part A of the Project
unless the Bank shall be satisfied,  after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.09  of  the Guarantee Agreement and Section
2.05 of the Project  Agreement,  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank:
          (i)  with the progress  made  by the Guarantor, Borrower
               and  FERTIMEX  in  carrying  out  the  Project  and
               Program; and
         (ii)  that the actions described  in  the Schedule to the
               Guarantee Agreement have been taken.
5.   If after  the  exchange  of  views  referred  to in paragraph
above, the Bank  shall  have  given  notice  to the Guarantor, the
Borrower and FERTIMEX that the  progress achieved or actions to be
taken referred to in paragraph  4  above are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such  notice,  the Guarantor, the Borrower or
FERTIMEX shall not have achieved  progress or taken actions satis-
factory to the Bank,  then  the  Bank  may,  by notice to the Gua-
rantor, Borrower and  FERTIMEX,  cancel  the unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support implementa-
tion of the Guarantor's Program;  (b) assist in the improvement of
the efficiency of production  and distribution of fertilizers; (c)
support the financial self-sufficiency of FERTIMEX; and (d) assist
in the improvement  of  managerial and organizational capabilities
Page  11
of FERTIMEX.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Imports
     Financing imports  of  fertilizers,  fertilizer raw materials
and other goods and materials.
Part B:   Investments
1.   Modernization and  improvement  of  the Pajaritos, Minatitlan
and Bajio plants and the acquisition and installation of measuring
instrumentation for such plants.
2.   Completion of the Pajaritos  nitric acid and ammonium nitrate
plants.
3.   Improvement of the fertilizer distribution system, including:
     (a)  construction of 14 wholesale warehouses for solid ferti-
lizers, and 4 storage spheres for anhydrous ammonia; and
     (b)  improvements in  7  maritime  terminals,  including con-
struction or retrofitting of dedicated bulk fertilizer warehouses,
acquisition and utilization of  loading equipment, berth extension
and construction  of  other  improvements  to  the Topolobampo and
Altamira ports, dredging, and construction of railroad sidings and
connections.
Part C:   Studies and Technical Assistance
1.   Carrying out a study of the alternative methods of implement-
ing the Guarantor's policy of withdrawing FERTIMEX from retail and
consignment operations, and the implications of applying each such
method.
2.   Carrying out a study  to improve the organizational structure
and management of FERTIMEX.
3.   Carrying out a study to  develop: (a) specifications for rock
which can be used  in  each  of FERMITEX's phosphoric acid plants;
(b) a method of economic evaluation of the use of different  types
of rock; and (c)  optimal  operating  conditions in each plant for
specific rock types.
4.   Provision of technical assistance,  and training and acquisi-
tion and utilization of computer  equipment and software, for pur-
poses of upgrading FERMITEX's planning capabilities.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1991
     through   December 15, 2002                 11,040,000
On June 15, 2003,                                11,080,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
Page  12
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the  procurement  of  General Imports estimated
to cost the equivalent of  $5,000,000  or more each, and contracts
for the procurement of  Fertilizer  Imports  estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more,  shall be awarded through inter-
national  competitive  bidding   in   accordance  with  procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines  is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
          "2.8 Notification and Advertising
               The international community should be notified in a
          timely manner of the opportunity  to  bid.  This will be
          done by advertising  invitations  to apply for inclusion
          in a bidder's  invitation  list,  to apply for prequali-
          fication,  or  to  bid;  such  advertisements  should be
          placed in at least  one newspaper of general circulation
          in the Borrower's country  and,  in addition in at least
          one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
Page  13
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
               "As a  further  alternative,  bidding documents may
          require the bidder to  state  the  bid price in a single
          currency widely used  in  international trade and speci-
          fied in the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for General Imports estimated to cost less than the
equivalent  of  $5,000,000  each,  and  contracts  for  Fertilizer
Imports estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $1,000,000
each, shall be  awarded  on  the  basis  of the normal procurement
procedures of the purchaser of goods.
3.   Except as provided in Part  C  hereof, contracts for the pro-
curement of goods and civil works shall be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding  in  accordance  with procedures con-
sistent with those set forth  in  Sections  I and II of the Guide-
lines.
4.   To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in paragraph 3 of  Part  A hereof, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a  margin  of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Phosphate rock for the  Pajaritos'  plant production of tech-
nical grade phosphoric acid may  be  purchased for use during 1988
by direct contracting procedures acceptable  to the Bank, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.   Goods under Parts B and  C  of  the Project estimated to cost
less than equivalent of $500,000  per  contract up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000, may be procured
under  contracts  awarded  through  limited  international bidding
procedures, satisfactory to the  Bank,  on the basis of evaluation
and comparison of  bids  invited  from  a  list  of at least three
qualified  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines  (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Goods under Parts B and  C  of  the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or  less  per contract, up to an aggre-
gate amount not to  exceed  the  equivalent  of $4,000,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from  at  least three suppliers from at
least two different  countries  eligible  under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.   Proprietary goods under Parts  B  and  C  of the Project, for
which there is a sole source  of supply, may be procured by direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the  Bank, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
5.   The aggregate amount of  all  contracts for goods procured in
accordance with paragraphs 2, 3 and  4 of Part C hereof, shall not
exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
Page  14
6.   Civil works under Part  B  of  the  Project estimated to cost
less than the  equivalent  of  $2,000,000  per  contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  $8,000,000, may be procured under
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  (i)  each  contract for General Imports
estimated to cost the equivalent  of $5,000,000 or more, (ii) each
contract for Fertilizer  Imports  or  works  estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or  more  and  the first five (5) tenders
for such goods, and (iii)  each  contract  for goods under Parts B
and C of the Project estimated  to cost the equivalent of $500,000
or more, the procedures set forth  in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appen-
dix 1 to the Guidelines  shall  apply. When payments for such con-
tract are to be made  out  of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure  that  the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply. When payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this Agreement with
respect to Part A of the Project, and Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the
Project Agreement with respect to Parts B and C of the Project.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  FERTIMEX  in  carrying  out Part C of the
Project, FERTIMEX shall  employ,  or  shall  cause to be employed,
when and as  appropriate,  consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (2), (3)
and (4) as set forth in the  table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the Eligible Categories in accord-
Page  15
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Initial Deposit" means an amount equivalent to
six million dollars  ($6,000,000)  to  be  withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited  in  the  Special  Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this  Schedule.  The  Borrower  shall  make  withdrawals  from the
Special Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis
of the evidence that  the  Bank  shall have reasonably determined,
and shall debit the Special Account  with the amount in dollars so
withdrawn or with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than
dollars in which the payment was  made, determined on the basis of
the rate of  exchange  between  the  dollar  and  such currency in
effect: (i) on the date each  payment shall have been made, if the
payment has taken place  within  90  days  before  the date of the
withdrawal in question has  been  requested;  or  (ii) on the date
each withdrawal shall have been made.
3.   The Bank may, at  the  request  of  the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the  Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit.  Thereafter, and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower  furnished  to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so withdraw
from the Loan Account  and  deposit  into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required  to replenish the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures, but only to  the  extent that the amount of
any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as  of  the  date  of  such request, shall not
exceed, in the aggregate,  the  equivalent of the Initial Deposit.
Except as the Bank  may  otherwise  agree, each such deposit after
the Initial Deposit shall be  withdrawn  by the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  Eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the  request  for  such deposit furnished pur-suant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for a
deposit by the Bank  into  the  Special  Account after the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each
payment made by  the  Borrower  out  of  the Special Account, such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, when the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Loan allocated to
the Categories, minus the  amount  of any outstanding special com-
mitment entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Initial Deposit,  the  Bank shall be entitled, after
consultation with the Borrower,  to  reduce the percentage of dis-
bursements for  Eligible  Expenditures  or  take  any other action
which will ensure the Bank  that  by  the time of disbursements of
the total  amount  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  all deposits
(including the Initial Deposit made  by  the Bank into the Special
Account) were made for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined at any payment out of
the Special Account: (i) was  made  for  any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible  for  financing  by  withdrawal  from the Loan
Account; or (ii) was not  justified by the documentation furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 above,  the Bank shall notify the Borrower
of such circumstances, and if, after  a period of 30 days from the
issuance of such notice,  an  amount  equal  to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified has
not been deposited by the Borrower into the Special Account or, if
the Bank shall so request,  refunded,  to  the Bank, the Bank may,
without in  any  way  restricting  or  limiting  any other rights,
power, or remedy of  the  Bank  under  the Loan Agreement, refrain
from making further deposits into such Account.
Page  16
     (b)  If any amount  outstanding  in  the Special Account will
not be required to  cover  further  payments for Eligible Expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed  by  the  Bank,  refund  to  the Bank such
amount then outstanding in  the  Special  Account for crediting to
the Loan Account and immediate cancellation.
