Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2919 ME
                     (Fertilizer Sector Loan)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                   FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
                        Dated June 13, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2919 ME
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  13,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and FERTILIZANTES
MEXICANOS S.A. (FERTIMEX).
     WHEREAS  (A)   the   Bank   has   received   a  letter  dated
February 25, 1988, (the Fertilizer  Sector Policy Letter) from the
UNITED MEXICAN  STATES  (the  Guarantor)  describing  a program of
actions, objectives and  policies  designed to achieve adjustments
to,  and  restructuring  of,  the  Guarantor's  fertilizer  sector
(hereinafter  called  the   Program),  declaring  the  Guarantor's
commitment  to  the  execution   of  the  Program  and  requesting
assistance from the Bank in  financing imports, works and services
required during such execution;
     (B)  by  an  agreement  (the  Loan  Agreement)  of  even date
herewith between NACIONAL  FINANCIERA,  S.N.C.  (the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies  equivalent to two hundred sixty-five
million dollars ($265,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
Page  2
forth in the Loan Agreement,  but  only on condition that FERTIMEX
agree to undertake such  obligations  toward  the  Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (C)  by an agreement  (the  Guarantee Agreement) entered into
between the the Guarantor and  the  Bank  of even date herewith, a
guarantee of the Loan has been  extended  to the Bank on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
     (D)  by  a   subsidiary   agreement   (the   Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement) to be entered  into  between the Borrower and FERTIMEX,
the proceeds of the  loan  provided  for  under the Loan Agreement
will be made available to FERTIMEX on the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS FERTIMEX,  in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  and the General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  FERTIMEX  declares   its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial,  engineering  and industrial practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  Except  as  provided  in  the  Loan Agreement,
FERTIMEX shall carry  out  the  obligations  set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,  9.08  and  9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating respectively to  insurance,  use  of goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of Parts B and C of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) FERTIMEX shall:
          (i)  enter into  and  duly  perform  all its obligations
               under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement referred to in
               Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement;
         (ii)  enter into and duly  perform all of its obligations
               under the FERTIMEX Convenio  referred to in Section
               3.05 (i) of the Guarantee Agreement; and
        (iii)  enter into and duly  perform all of its obligations
               under  the  PEMEX  Agreement  referred  to  in Sec-
               tion 3.05 (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement.
     (b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FERTIMEX shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of the Subsidiary Loan
Page  3
Agreement, the FERTIMEX Convenio or the PEMEX Agreement.
     Section 2.05. (a)  FERTIMEX  and  the  Guarantor, pursuant to
Section 3.09 of the  Guarantee  Agreement shall, on a twice-yearly
basis and at the  request  of  any  party, exchange views with the
Bank with regard  to  progress  of  carrying  out the Project, the
Program and  the  actions  referred  to  in  the  Schedule  to the
Guarantee Agreement;
     (b)  FERTIMEX shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of Loan, or the
performance by FERTIMEX of  its  obligations under this Agreement,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the FERTIMEX Convenio and the PEMEX
Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  FERTIMEX  in  conjunction  with the Guarantor,
shall:
     (a) by June 30, 1988, complete  the first phase of the study,
described in Part C.1  of  the  Project,  under terms of reference
satisfactory to  the  Bank,  and  promptly  thereafter discuss the
results thereof with the Guarantor and the Bank;
     (b)  based  on   such   discussions,   make  recommendations,
acceptable to the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank,  for withdrawal from
consignment  and  retail   operations   in  areas  identified  for
immediate action  and  begin  such  withdrawal  by  no  later than
September 30, 1988;
     (c)  by December 31, 1988, complete  the second phase of such
study, under terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the Bank, and
based on the results  of  such  study,  propose  a plan of action,
acceptable to the  Bank,  to  withdraw  from fertilizer retail and
consignment operations;
     (d)  by March 31, 1989, and  as  part of such plan of action,
cease FERTIMEX fertilizer  consignment  and retail operations with
aggregate sales volume  equivalent  to  no  less  than  10% of all
FERTIMEX sales of solid fertilizers in 1987; and
     (e)  by December 31, 1992, complete  the carrying out of such
plan of action.
     Section 2.07. FERTIMEX shall:
     (a)  by June 30, 1988,  initiate  the study described in Part
C.2 of the Project, under  terms  of reference satisfactory to the
Bank;
     (b)  by December 31, 1988,  complete  the first phase of such
study and provide the results  of  such study to the Guarantor and
the Bank for review and comment;
     (c)  by March 31, 1989, exchange views with the Guarantor and
the Bank on recommendations for,  and  the selection of, an option
for improving the  medium-  and long-term organizational structure
of FERTIMEX;
     (d)  by September 30, 1989,  and based on the recommendations
resulting from such exchange  of  views, complete the second phase
of such study, under terms  of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and propose a plan of action, acceptable to the Bank, for carrying
out such structural  improvements,  including  a time schedule for
implementation; and
     (e)  implement the plan  of  action  in  accordance with such
timetable.
     Section 2.08. FERTIMEX  shall,  by  August 31, 1988, complete
the study described  in  Part  C.3  of  the  Project, and promptly
thereafter discuss the results of the study with the Bank.
Page  4
     Section 2.09.  (a)  FERTIMEX  shall  carry  out an investment
program, acceptable to  the  Bank,  to  achieve optimum fertilizer
production and distribution, which  shall limit investments in the
fertilizer sector to those that are economically viable.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section, an economically viable
investment is an  investment  with  an  estimated minimum internal
economic rate of return of  10%,  with the exceptions specified in
the FERTIMEX Convenio, determined  in accordance with assumptions,
criteria and methodology acceptable to the Bank.
     (c)  FERTIMEX agrees that  it  shall  provide,  by June 30 of
each year, a report  of  proposed  investments for the next coming
fiscal year to the Bank for its review and comment.
     Section 2.10 (a) FERTIMEX shall  carry out a program, accept-
able to the Bank, of  closing  plants which shall, by December 31,
1989: (i) reduce  its  production  capacity of fertilizer finished
products by 938,700 metric  tons;  and  (ii) reduce its production
capacity of fertilizer intermediates  by 178,550 metric tons. Such
Plant Closure Program shall  be  carried  out in accordance with a
time schedule acceptable to the Bank.
     (b)  As part of such  Plant  Closure Program, FERTIMEX shall:
(i) carry out and complete,  by  not  later  than June 30, 1989, a
study of alternate  uses  and  markets  (other than for fertilizer
production), for sulfuric acid  produced by FERTIMEX's Guadalajara
and Queretaro plants; and  (ii)  close  the  plants referred to in
subparagraph (i) above by  not  later  than  June 30, 1990, in the
event financially  viable  alternate  uses  and  markets  for such
sulfuric acid  have  not  been  identified.  For  purposes of this
Section, the term  "financially  viable"  means  that the Bank has
been provided with evidence,  satisfactory  to  the Bank, that net
revenues from projected sales  of  sulfuric  acid produced by such
plants for the alternate uses and markets identified, are at least
equal to the sum of all  expenses related to operations; the terms
"net revenues" and "expenses related  to operations" have the same
meanings as so defined in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
     (c)  FERTIMEX shall, as part  of  such Plant Closure Program,
close,  by  December  31,  1989,  its  ammonium  sulfate  plant at
Coatzacoalcos, unless it has  entered  into  a written contract to
supply on a long-term basis,  by-product  sulfuric acid at a price
such that the total production  costs  for  such plant, per ton of
ammonium sulfate, is less than  or  equal  to the import price for
bulk standard  ammonium  sulfate  (C.I.F.  Coatzacoalcos from U.S.
Gulf). For purposes of calculating total production costs, ammonia
shall be priced at its  export price, determined using the average
of F.O.B. Coatzacoalcos prices for ammonia quoted in international
publications, acceptable to the Bank, for the six months preceding
such calculation of total production costs.
     Section 2.11. FERTIMEX shall  take  all measures necessary or
appropriate  to  ensure  that  investments  financed  out  of  the
proceeds of the Loan are constructed and operated in a manner that
shall comply with  emission  and  pollution control procedures and
environmental protection standard,  satisfactory  to  the Bank and
consistent with  the  environmental  laws  and  regulations of the
Guarantor.
     Section  2.12.  FERTIMEX  shall   provide,  or  cause  to  be
provided, to the Borrower, in  a  timely manner, all documents and
records  in  respect  of  the  expenditures  financed  out  of the
proceeds of the  Loan  under  Part  A  of  the Project required to
enable the Borrower to comply  with the provisions of Section 4.01
of the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of FERTIMEX
Page  5
     Section 3.01.  FERTIMEX  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial  and  industrial  practices  under  the  supervision  of
qualified and experienced management.
     Section  3.02.  FERTIMEX  shall  at  all  times  operate  and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
     Section 3.03.  FERTIMEX  shall  take  out  and  maintain with
responsible insurers  insurance  against  such  risks  and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  FERTIMEX  shall  maintain,  or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations  and financial
condition, including separate records  and accounts reflecting the
resources and expenditures in  respect  of  Parts  B  and C of the
Project.
     (b)  FERTIMEX shall:
          (i)  have the  accounts  referred  to  in  (a) above and
               financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and  expenses  and  related  statements) for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               generally accepted  auditing  standards  and proce-
               dures  consistently  applied,  by  independent  and
               qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  six  months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said accounts and financial statements, as well
               as the audit thereof and  said records, as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  in  carrying  out  the Project and
with respect to which withdrawals  from the Loan Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, FERTIMEX shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account  was  made, all records (con-
               tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the audits referred to  in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the  report of such audit contains
               a separate opinion by  said  auditors as to whether
               the statements of expenditure submitted during such
Page  6
               fiscal year, together  with  the procedures and in-
               ternal controls involved  in their preparation, can
               be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
FERTIMEX shall not incur any  debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of FERTIMEX shows that the estimated
net revenues of FERTIMEX for  each  fiscal year during the term of
the debt to be incurred shall  be  at least equal to the estimated
debt service requirements of FERTIMEX in  such year on all debt of
FERTIMEX including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of  this  Section and, when applicable,
Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement:
          (i)  the term "debt" means  any indebtedness of FERTIMEX
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred;
         (ii)  debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into;
        (iii)  the  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                   operations   and   net   non-operating  income,
                   including  transfers  from  the  Guarantor  for
                   purposes other  than  for capital expenditures;
                   and
               (B) the sum of  all  expenses related to operations
                   including administration, adequate maintenance,
                   taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but
                   excluding  provision  for  depreciation,  other
                   non-cash  operating  charges  and  interest and
                   other charges on debt;
         (iv)  the  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A) revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                   related to operations; and
               (B) expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                   of taxes, incurred  in  the generation of reve-
                   nues in (A) above;
          (v)  the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt;
         (vi)  the term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by FERTIMEX not earlier than twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which  both  the   Bank   and  FERTIMEX  accept  as
               reasonable and as  to  which  the Bank has notified
               FERTIMEX of  its  acceptability,  provided  that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition or future  operating results of FERTIMEX;
               and
        (vii)  whenever  for  the  purposes  of  this  Section and
               Sections 4.03 and 4.04  of this Agreement, it shall
Page  7
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
FERTIMEX shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such
debt the ratio of debt to  equity  shall be greater than 40 to 60.
For purposes of this Section,  the  term "equity" means the sum of
the  total  unimpaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings  and
reserves of FERTIMEX not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
FERTIMEX shall  maintain  a  ratio  of  current  assets to current
liabilities of not less than:
               1.1      during 1988;
               1.2      during 1989;
               1.3      during 1990;
               1.4      during 1991; and
               1.5      during 1992 and thereafter.
     (b)  Before  September  30  in  each  of  its  Fiscal  Years,
FERTIMEX shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by FERTIMEX and
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  it  would  meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal  year  and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  FERTIMEX would not meet
the requirements set forth in  paragraph (a) for FERTIMEX's fiscal
years covered by  such  review,  FERTIMEX  shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or  levels  of  its  prices)  in  order to meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts    receivable,    marketable   securities,
               inventories and pre-paid  expenses properly charge-
               able to operating  expenses  within the next fiscal
               year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of FERTIMEX thereunder  shall  terminate  on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify FERTIMEX thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
Page  8
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For FERTIMEX:
          Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
          Morena 804, Piso 11
          03020 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                               01773018
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of FERTIMEX,  may  be taken or executed by the
Director General or such other  person  or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing,  and FERTIMEX shall furnish to
the  Bank   sufficient   evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Barber B. Conable
                                                         President
Page  9
                    FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
                    By /s/ Alfredo Acle
                                         Authorized Representative
