Page  1
                                                February 4, 1990
Dr. Pedro Aspe Armella
Minister of Finance
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio, Mariano, 4o Piso
06066 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico.
Mr. Juan Jose Paramo
Director General
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza NAFINSA
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre Sur, 9o.  Piso
CP 01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico.
Dear Sirs:
            Re:   Loan No. 2919-ME (Fertilizer Sector Loan) -
                  Amendment
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated June 13, 1988 for the
above-referred Loan (the "Loan Agreement") between International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) , and to the Guarantee Agreement
of even date therewith between the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) and the Bank ("the Guarantee Agreement").
      In response to your request and the discussions between our
respective representatives, we are pleased to inform you that the
Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
agreement for the purpose of setting aside a portion of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement for the
implementation of a debt reduction plan of the Guarantor.
      Accordingly, the Bank hereby proposes to amend the Loan
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement as follows:
I.    Loan Agreement
      A.    Preamble
            (i)   A new paragraph (B) is added after paragraph (A)
to read as follows:
                  "(B) it is contemplated that the Guarantor may
                  require assistance from the Bank in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan (as
                  hereinafter defined);".
            (ii)  Former paragraphs (B), (C) and (D) are relettered
                  as "(C)", "(D)" and "(E)" respectively.
      B.    Section 1.02
            (i)   Paragraphs (n) and (o) are deleted.
            (ii)  Former Paragraph (p) is relettered as "(n)" and is
amended in its entirety to read as follows:
                  "(n) "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the
                  Guarantor submitted to the Bank for partial
                  funding under this Agreement to reduce the
                  Guarantor's principal payments on its external
                  loans from non-official creditors;"
            (iii) Former paragraph (q) is relettered as "(o)" and is
Page  2
amended in its entirety to read as follows:
                  "(o) "Fertilizer Imports" means the imported
                  fertilizer raw materials and finished products
                  defined in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 1 to this
                  Agreement;".
            (iv)  Former paragraphs (r), (s), (t) and (u) are
relettered as "(q)", "(r)" and "(s)" respectively.
      C.    Article III
            (i)   A new Section 3.04 is added after Section 3.03 to
read as follows:
                  "Section 3.04. Subject to agreement by the
                  Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank on the terms
                  and conditions to be applied in such case, the
                  Borrower may use a portion of the proceeds of the
                  Loan as provided in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
                  for the implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan
                  under Part C of the Project described in Schedule
                  2 to this Agreement."
      D.  Schedule 1
            (i)   Paragraph I is deleted and the following
substituted therefor:
                  "1. The table below sets forth the Categories of
                  items to be financed out of the proceeds of the
                  Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan
                  to each Category and the percentage of
                  expenditure for items so to be financed in each
                  Category:
                                     Amount of the
                                    Loan Allocated    % of
                                     (Expressed in    Expenditures
      Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Fertilizer Imports                  50,000,000    100% of
     under Part A of                                  foreign
     the Project                                      expenditures
(2) Goods under                         30,800,000    100% of
     Parts B and C                                    foreign
     of the Project                                   expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost);
                                                      and 80% of
                                                      local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured
                                                      locally
(3) Civil Works under                     32,800,000  100% of
     Part B  of  the                                  foreign
      Project                                         expenditures;
                                                      and
                                                      80% of local
                                                      expenditures
(4) Consultants'                         1,400,000    100%
     services,
     training and
     studies   under
     Part C  of  the
Page  3
     Project
(5)  Debt  Reduction                   150,000,000    To be agreed
     Plan                                             by the Bank,
                                                      the Guarantor
                                                      and the
                                                      Borrower,
                                                      subject to
                                                      paragraph 6
                                                      below
           TOTAL                       265,000,000
            (ii)  Paragraph 2 (c) is deleted and the following
substituted therefor:
                  "(c) the term "Fertilizer Imports" means imports
                  of fertilizer raw materials and finished products
                  included in the following list:
                  Raw Materials:
                  Phosphate rock
                  Potassium chloride
                        (Standard)
                  Sulfur
                  Finished Products:
                  Urea
                  Ammonium sulfate
                  Ammonium nitrate
                  Diammonium phosphate
                  Monoammonium phosphate
                  Potassium chloride
                        (Granulated)
                  Potassium sulfate
                  Complex fertilizers
                  Triple superphosphate
                  Phosphoric acid
                  Potassium nitrate"
                  (iii) Paragraph (4) is deleted.
                  (iv)  Former paragraph (5) is relettered as "(4)"
and is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
                  "4. Subject to the.provisions of paragraph 6
                  hereunder, no withdrawal shall be made and no
                  commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts
                  to, or on the order of, the Borrower in respect
                  of expenditures to be financed out of the
                  proceeds of the Loan under Category 1 for Part A
                  of the Project, unless the Bank shall be
                  satisfied, after an exchange of views as
                  described in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee
                  Agreement and Section 2.05 of the Project
                  Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
                  Bank:
                  (i)   with the progress made by the Guarantor,
                        Borrower and FERTIMEX in carrying out the
                        Project and Program; and
                  (ii)  that the actions described in the Schedule
                        to the Guarantee Agreement have been
                        taken."
            (v)   Former paragraph (6) is renumbered as "(5)" and is
amended by deleting the two references therein to "paragraphs 4 and
5" and substituting the words paragraph 4" therefor.
Page  4
            (iv)  New paragraphs 6 and 7 are added to read as
follows:
            "6. If an agreement by the Bank, the Guarantor and the
            Borrower for the use of the portion of the proceeds of
            the Loan designated for the implementation of the Debt
            Reduction Plan shall not have been entered into by May
            31, 1990 or such later date as approved by the Bank,
            then the amount of $150,000,000 under Category 5 shall,
            at the request of the Borrower and the Guarantor, be
            reallocated to Category 1 for Part A of the Project.
            7.    The provisions of this Schedule are without
            prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Loan
            Agreement."
      E.    Schedule 2
            (i)   The objectives stated in the first paragraph are
amended by deleting the word "and" at the end of clause (c) thereof,
by deleting the period at the end of the paragraph and substituting
the following therefor:
                  "; and (d) if so determined under Section 3.04 of
                  this Agreement, to assist the Guarantor in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan."
            (ii)  Part A of the Project is deleted and the following
substituted therefor:
                  "Part A: Imports
                  Financing Fertilizer Imports."
            (iii) A new Part D of the Project is added after Part C
to read as follows:
                  "Part D: Debt Reduction Plan
                  Assistance to the (Guarantor in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan which, in
                  the judgment of the Guarantor and of the Bank,
                  shall meet the requirements of the Bank's support
                  of debt reduction."
      F.    Schedule 4
            (i)   Paragraph I of Part A of Section I is amended by
deleting the following words from such paragraph:
                  "for the procurement of General Imports estimated
                  to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more
                  each, and contracts".
            (ii)  Paragraph 2 of Part A of Section I is amended by
deleting the following words from such paragraph:
                  "for General Imports estimated to cost less than
                  the equivalent of $5,000,000 each, and
                  contracts".
            (iii) Clause (i) of Paragraph l(a) of Part D of Section
I is deleted and clauses (ii) and (iii) of such paragraph are
renumbered as "(i)" and "(ii)" respectively.
II.   Guarantee Agreement
      A.    Preamble
            (i)   A new paragraph (B) is added after paragraph (A)
to read as follows:
Page  5
                  "(B) it is contemplated that the Guarantor may
                  require assistance from the Bank in the
                  implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan; and"
            (ii)  Former paragraphs (B), (C) and (D) are relettered
as "(c;)", "(D)" and "(E)" respectively.
      B.    Article III
            (i)   Section 3.11 is added after Section 3.10 to read
as follows: A new
                  "Section 3.11. The Guarantor shall, if so
                  determined under Section 3.04 of the Loan
                  Agreement, carry out Part D of the Project with
                  due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                  with appropriate commercial, administrative and
                  financial practices and shall provide, promptly
                  as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                  other resources required for the Project."
            (ii)  A new Section 3.12 is added after Section 3.11 to
read  as follows:
                  "Section 3.12. The Guarantor shall take all
                  actions as shall be required for implementing the
                  provisions under Section 3.04 of the Loan
                  Agreement."
      C.    Schedule 1
            (i)   Schedule 1 is deleted.
      D.    Schedule 2
            (i)   Schedule 2 is redesignated as "Schedule" and its
heading "Actions to be taken prior to Availability of the Second
Tranche," is deleted and the following substituted therefor:
                  "Actions referred to in Paragraph 4(ii) of
                  Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement".
          Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments
by signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.
This Amendment may be executed in three counterparts, each of which
shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one
fully executed original to us.  This amendment will be effective as
of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one fully
executed original of this Amendment.
                         Very truly yours,
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                          Vice President
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES         NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Page  6
By /s/                              By /s/
  Authorized Representative   Authorized Representative
Date:  February 4, 1990       Date:  February 4, 1990
