Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2919 ME
                     (Fertilizer Sector Loan)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 13, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2919 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1988, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS  (A)   the   Bank   has   received   a  letter  dated
February 25,  1988,  (the  Fertilizer  Sector  Policy Letter) from
the Guarantor  describing  a  program  of  actions, objectives and
policies designed  to  achieve  adjustments  to  and restructuring
of, the  Guarantor's  fertilizer  sector  (hereinafter  called the
Program), declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the execution of
the Program and requesting  assistance  from the Bank in financing
imports, works and services required during such execution;
     (B)  by  an  agreement  (the  Loan  Agreement)  of  even date
herewith, between the  Bank  and  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to  extend to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent  to  two  hundred sixty-five million
dollars ($265,000,000), on the  terms  and conditions set forth in
the loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations  of  the  Borrower in respect of such
loan  and  to  undertake  other  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Page  2
Agreement;
     (C)  the Guarantor, the Borrower and FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS,
S.A. (FERTIMEX) having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of  the  Project  described  in  Schedule  2  to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank  to  assist in the financing of
the Project; and
     (D)  by an agreement  (the  Project  Agreement)  of even date
herewith, between the Bank and  FERTIMEX, the latter has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan  Agreement,  constitute  an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to, and  Section  1.02  of,  the  Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
            Guarantee; Transfer and Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. (a)  The  Guarantor  declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement and, to this end, without limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the  Guarantor  hereby   unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary
obligor and not merely as surety,  the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if  any,  on  the  prepayment  of  the  Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the  other obligations of the Borrower
and FERTIMEX, as set forth  in  the Loan Agreement and the Project
Agreement.
     (b)  The  Guarantor   shall   enter   into   the  contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement
and, unless the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, shall not change or
fail to enforce any provisions of such contractual arrangements.
     Section 2.02. Without limitation  to, or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01  of  this Agreement, the Guarantor spe-
cifically  undertakes  whenever  there   is  reasonable  cause  to
believe: (i)    that  the  funds  available  to  FERTIMEX  will be
inadequate to meet  the  estimated  expenditures  required for the
carrying out of  the  Project,  including  without limitation, the
funds required to comply with  Section  4.02 of the Project Agree-
ment, to make arrangements, satisfactory  to the Bank, promptly to
provide such funds as are  required to meet such expenditures; and
(ii) that the funds available  to implement the Investment Program
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for
its implementation, to make  arrangements promptly to provide such
funds as are required to meet such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
Page  3
     Section 3.01. Without any limitation to, or restriction upon,
any of its obligations under  this Agreement, the Guarantor shall:
(i) take all measures required  to assist FERTIMEX in carrying out
its obligations under the Project  Agreement; and (ii) not take or
permit to be taken,  any  action  which would prevent or interfere
with the performance  by  FERTIMEX  of  its  obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     Section 3.02. The  Guarantor  shall  provide  or  cause to be
provided  in  a  timely  manner,  all  documents  and  records for
expenditures financed out of the  proceeds of the Loan required to
enable the Borrower to comply in  respect of Part A of the Project
with the provisions of  Section  4.01  of  the Loan Agreement, and
FERTIMEX to comply in respect  of  Parts  B  and C of the Project,
with the provisions of Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement
     Section 3.03. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Except as  otherwise provided in this Agreement
and the Loan Agreement,  the  Bank  and the Guarantor hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9,08 and 9.09 of the  General Conditions (relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and  land  acquisition) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by  the Borrower in respect of Part A
of the  Project  in  accordance  with  Section  3.03  of  the Loan
Agreement, and by FERTIMEX  in  respect  of  Parts  B and C of the
Project in accordance with Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  enter into  a  medium-term  contract, acceptable to
               the Bank, with FERTIMEX (the FERTIMEX Convenio) for
               purposes, inter  alia,  of  enhancing the financial
               autonomy  of  FERTIMEX   and  defining  performance
               objectives and targets;
         (ii)  cause PEMEX to enter  into an agreement, acceptable
               to the Bank,  with  FERTIMEX (the PEMEX Agreement),
               for  purposes,  inter  alia,  of  coordinating  and
               planning ammonia and fertilizer production.
        (iii)  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, the
               Guarantor shall not change  or  fail to enforce any
               provision of the FERTIMEX  Convenio, and shall take
               all  measures  necessary   to  prevent  PEMEX  from
               changing or failing  to  enforce  the provisions of
               the PEMEX Agreement.
     Section 3.06. (a) The  Guarantor  shall  cause the prices for
domestically  produced  ammonia  paid  by  FERMITEX  to  PEMEX  to
increase in order achieve the  following percentages of the Export
Price for Ammonia, by the dates listed below:
               Percentage of Export
               Price for Ammonia            By
                 (i)   48%                  March 31, 1989
                (ii)   54%                  December 31, 1989
               (iii)   63%                  December 31, 1990
                (iv)   71%                  December 31, 1991
                 (v)   80%                  December 31, 1992
     For purposes of  this  paragraph  "Export  Price for Ammonia"
means the average of prices  prevailing during the previous twelve
months preceding a price  increase,  for ammonia exported by PEMEX
(F.O.B. Coatzacoalcos), or if PEMEX  does  not export ammonia in a
particular month, the price prevailing  for such month for ammonia
Page  4
purchased at United  States  Gulf  ports  (F.O.B.  U.S, Gulf Coast
price) minus ten dollars.
     (b) The Guarantor shall cause:
          (i)  the domestic prices  for  fertilizer  listed by the
               Guarantor to be adjusted,  on at least a twice-year
               basis, until  such  prices  so  listed reach import
               parity, or  FERTIMEX  has  achieved financial self-
               sufficiency, whichever  occurs  first. For purposes
               of  this  subparagraph,  the  term  "import parity"
               means the point  at  which  the price of fertilizer
               marketed by FERTIMEX  at  major distribution points
               is  equal  to  the  estimated  price  of equivalent
               imported fertilizer delivered  to such distribution
               points; the  term  "financial self-sufficiency" has
               the same  meaning  as  that  term  is  used  in the
               Fertilizer  Sector  Policy   Letter,  namely,  that
               revenues of  FERTIMEX  shall  be  equivalent to its
               total   operating   costs,   including  production,
               distribution,  sales  and  administrative expenses,
               financial costs and an  8% return on amounts (other
               than debt) paid for new investments;
         (ii)  such fertilizer prices to be adjusted, on a monthly
               basis during 1988 and  in accordance with the terms
               of the Pacto de  Solidaridad Economica, in order to
               maintain such prices,  in  real  terms, at the base
               prices prevailing on March 1, 1988; and
        (iii)  the  average  weighted   fertilizer  prices  to  be
               increased each year  after  1988,  by  12.3% of the
               Constant Fertilizer  Price,  such annual percentage
               increase to  be  adjusted  in  accordance  with the
               world  inflation  index   referred  to  immediately
               below. For purposes of  this subparagraph, the term
               "Constant  Fertilizer  Price"  means  a  fertilizer
               price of  $105  in  constant  United States dollars
               determined  as  of  December  1987,  calculated  in
               accordance with a  methodology  satisfactory to the
               Bank and  utilizing  an  index  of  world inflation
               acceptable to the Bank,  such price to be converted
               into  pesos  at  the  rate  of  exchange prevailing
               between the dollar and the peso on the date of such
               increase; and
         (iv)  each fertilizer price  increase  made during a year
               after 1988 shall  be  approximately  equal to other
               increases made during the same year.
     Section 3.07. The Guarantor  shall refrain from applying Non-
tariff Barriers to imports  of  fertilizers  and raw materials for
fertilizer production and shall  maintain the tariff structure for
such fertilizers and  raw  materials  existing  as of December 15,
1987, in a manner consistent with the objectives of the Program.
     Section 3.08. The  Guarantor  shall:  (i)  assist FERTIMEX in
carrying out the study referred to  in Section 2.06 of the Project
Agreement; and (ii)  assist  in  implementing  the withdrawal from
consignment and retail operations referred to in such Section.
     Section 3.09. (a)  The  Guarantor  and  FERTIMEX, pursuant to
Section 2.05 of  the  Project  Agreement,  shall on a twice-yearly
basis and at the  request  of  any  party, exchange views with the
Bank on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out the Project, the
Program  and  the  actions  specified  in  the  Schedule  to  this
Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to  each  such  exchange  of  views, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank, a report in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request on such progress achieved.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The Director General  de Credito Publico of the
Secretaria de  Hacienda  y  Credito  Publico  of  the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de Credito Publico
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional
          Edificio 10, P.B.
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                              1777313-SHDCME
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Barber B. Conable
                                                         President
                             SCHEDULE
             Actions to be Taken Prior to Availability
                       of the Second Tranche
1.   FERTIMEX shall have implemented the Plant Closure Program for
1988;
Page  6
2.   FERTIMEX shall have completed the study described in Part C.1
of the Project  and  the  first  phase  of  the study described in
Part  C.2  of  the  Project,  and  shall  have  complied  with its
obligations under Sections 2.06  (d)  and  2.07 (c) of the Project
Agreement;
3.   FERTIMEX shall have: (i)  carried  out the Investment Program
for 1988; and (ii) reviewed  with  the Bank the Investment Program
for 1989 and the Bank  is  satisfied  that it meets the investment
criteria stated in said Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement.
4.   That the Guarantor and  FERTIMEX shall have made satisfactory
progress in carrying out the Pricing Actions, including:
     (a)  compliance with the obligations  of Section 3.06 (a) (i)
of the Guarantee Agreement;
     (b)  with  respect  to  Section  3.06  (b)  of  the Guarantee
Agreement, increasing the weighted average of fertilizer prices by
2.9% of the Constant Fertilizer Price;
     (c)  ensuring that the price  paid  by FERTIMEX for sulfur to
domestic   suppliers   shall   have   remained,   at   the  F.O.B.
Coatzacoalcos  price  for  sulfur,   adjusted  for  difference  in
quality.
