Page  1
                                          February 16, 1990
Mr. Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
Director Internacional
Direccion Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza NAFINSA
Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre Sur, 9o. Piso
Col. Guadalupe Inn, Del. Alvaro Obregon
COP 01020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Mr. Manuel Cadena Morales
Director General
Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
Calle la Morena 804, Piso 11
03020 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
            Re:   Loan No. 2919-ME (Fertilizer Sector Loan)
                  Amendment
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Nacional
Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) dated June 13, 1988, as amended,
and to the Project Agreement of even date therewith between the Bank
and Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A. (FERTIMEX), as amended.  We are
pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our recent
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan and
Project Agreements, as follows:
      I.    The Loan Agreement
      (1)   Paragraph 1. of Part B. of Schedule 2 is hereby deleted
and the following new paragraph 1. substituted therefor:
      "1. Modernization and improvement of existing plants of
FERTIMEX and the acquisition and installation of measuring
instrumentation for such plants."
      (2)   Paragraph 3 (a) of Part B. of Schedule 2 is hereby
deleted and the following new paragraph 3 (a) substituted therefor:
      "Construction of and modifications to wholesale warehouses for
solid fertilizers, and construction of 4 storage spheres for
anhydrous ammonia; and"
      (3)   Part C of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by adding thereto
the following new paragraph 5:
      "Carrying out of studies to (i) assess the impact on the
environment of gypsum and contaminated water disposal to the sea in
Lazaro Cardenas; and (ii) design  and engineer the system,
recommended by the study referred to in (i) above, to minimize such
impact."
      II.   The Project Agreement
      The following new Section 2.13 is hereby added:
      "Section 2.13. FERTIMEX shall, in conjunction with the
Guarantor, by December 31, 1990, complete the study forming Part C.
5 (i) of the Project, and by September 30, 1991, complete the study
forming Part C. 5 (ii) of the Project, and shall promptly after the
completion of each study discuss the results thereof with the Bank."
Page  2
      Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the duplicate original of this letter enclosed
herewith and returning the same to us.  The provisions of this
amendment will become effective on the last date a party confirms
its agreement to this amendment.    In view of the interest of the
United Mexican States in this matter, a copy of this letter is being
sent to Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico.
                            Sincerely,
                      /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                             Director
                       Country department II
              Latin American and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED BY:
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Authorized Representative
Date Abril 18, 1990
FERTILIZANTES MEXICANOS, S.A.
By /s/
      Authorized Representative
Date  Abril 30, 1990
cc: Mr. Enrique Vilatela
    Director General de Captacion de Credito Publico
    Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
    Palacio Nacional
    06066 Mexico D.F.
    Mexico
    Mr. Alfredo Elias Ayub
    Subsecretario de Minas e Industria Basica
    Secretaria de Energia - Minas e Industria Paraestatal
    Insurgentes Sur 552 - Piso 4
    Colonia Roma Sur
    Mexico, D.F.
