RESTRICTED
IHE     COD7                   Report No.P-417
This report was prepared for use within the Bank ond its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
January 19, 1965



INTERMATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEDIT
INTERNATIONAL DEVEL0PFivNT ASSOCIATION
REPORT ANID RECOIMENDATION OF TIE PRESIDE11T
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OHi A
PROPOSED LOAN AND PROPOSED DEVELOMENT CREDIT TO
TTiE REEPUBLIC OF HONDURAS FOR ROAD CONSTPLUCTTION
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
from the Bank in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $6 million
and on a proposed Development Credit from the International Development
Association in various currencies equivalent to $3.5 million, both to the
Reoublic of Honduras, to assist in the financing of the construction of the
North Road.
PART I - BACKGROUND
2.     For the past ten years the Republic of Honduras has engaged in the
construction of the basic road network of the country for which it received
considerable external financial assistance, mainly from the Bank and the
Association. The Bank made two loans, in 1955 and 1958, totaling $9.7
million to build or reconstruct about 115 miles of road, to build 21 new
bridges and to conduct engineering surveys for future road construction.
Both projects are now completed, even though the execution of the 1958 loan
was delayed because of the failure of a contractor. In 196i the Association
made a Credit of $9 million to help construct a 60 mile extension of the
Western Highway to establish direct road communications between the port of
Puerto Cortes on the Atlantic coast of Honduras and El Salvador, to construct
feeder roads in the western part of the country and to carry out a highway
planning survey. Road construction was completed on schedule at a cost
substantially less than the original estimates and on July 28, 196h the
Bank agreed that the undisbursed amount be used for improvement of another
section of the Wlestern Highway, which is now one of the most important
economic arteries of the country. The highway planning survey, carried out
by the Stanford Research Institute, was completed at the end of 1962 and
indicated that the highest priority should be given to the construction of
the North Road connecting Tegucigalpa, the capital, with Puerto Cortes, the
main port of the country.
3.     In fact a 72 km. section of the North Road between Puerto Cortes and
Bufalo - where the Western Highway meets the existin- road fronm Puerto
Cortes to Tegucigalpa - was constructed to s;odern standards under the first
Bank loan to Honduras. By the end of 1963, the Government decided to speed
up construction of the road and to improve immediately to adequate stand-rds
out of its own resources two more sectioLns totaling 60 lms from Toeucigalpa



-2 -
to Rlo del Hombre and from Bufalo to Potrerillos, while engineering studies
for the rest of the road were carried out under a Technical Assistance
grant from the Inter-American Development Bank. In September 1964 a mission
visited Honduras and found that (a) the improvements financed by the
Government were being carried out in conformity with sound engineering
practices and to satisfactory standards; and (b) the construction of the
202 I(n section between Rio del Hombre and Potrerillos and the construction
of a large bridge over the Ulua River would be suitable for Bank financing.
4.     Negotiations began on January 7, 1965 in Washington with a Honduran
mission consisting of Mr. Edgardo Dur.as, Minister of Economy and Finance,
Mr. Luis Bogran Fortin, Minister of Public Works and Communications and
Mr. Roberto Ramirez, President of the Central Bank. With the agreement of
the Government of Honduras, representatives of tne Inter-Ameri can Develop-
ment Bank, which is prepared in principle to contribute to the financing of
the project, were invited to attend the negotiations witvh a view to ensuring
proper coordination between both lending agencies and speeding up the pro-
cedure.
5.     The proposed loan would increase the Bark's lending in Honduras to
$25.9 million equivalent.  The present status of previous Bank loans is
as follows:
Amount of Loan
Year              Purpose                             (net of cancellations)
(U.S.$ millions)
1955              Roads                 4.2
1958              Roads                 5.5
1959              Power                 1.4
1960              Power                 8.8
Total net of cancellations                             19.9
of which has been repaid                              5.5
Total now outstanding                                 1J.4
Amount sold                        1.6
of which has been repaid         1.h                   .2
Net amount hield by Bank at
December 31, 1964                                     14.2
1/ including undisbursed amount 44.2 million.



-3-
6.     The Development Credit would increase the Association's lending in
Honduras to $12.5 million equivalent.   Tile only previous De--elopment Credit
to the Government, in the amount of $9 million, was signed in l'lay 1961 to
help finance road construction and maintenance as well as a highway planning
survey.
7.     T.cTo other projects of major importance for the economic development of
the country, namely t'he expanoion of the p,ort facilities in ?uerto Cortes and
the construction of a nei 'hydroelectric plant are under active consideration
for Bank loans of about `4.1 million and -9 million resDectIvely.
PART II - D3SCRIPTION CF TIHE PROPOSED LO.UN AND DETELOPFEDIT CREDIT
3.     The oroposed Loan and Development Credit would 'ave the fol otJing
characteristics:
Loan                  Develop;aent Credit
Borrower:                                  The Republic or Honduras
Amount:                               The equivalent in various currencies of
.6.o million                5 3- million
Purpose:                              To heln finance a 2C2 km. section of
the North Road linking Tegucigalpa,
the capital, and Puerto Cortes, the
main port,and the construction of a
large bridge.
Amortization:                               semi-annual instalments
from April 1, 19071      from April 1, 1975
through April 1,1990     through Gc&.l, 201L'
Interest rate:                     5-1/20 per annum
Service charge:                                            3/4 of 1, per annurn
Commit-ment charge:                 3/8 of 1, per annum
Payment dates:                                April 1 and October 1



- 4 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.     A report entitled "Appraisal of the North Road Project" (TO-454a)
is attached.
10.    The project consists of the construction of a two-lane bituminous
surfaced road totaling about 202 kms in length and a bridge with its
accesses over the Ulua River and the provision of associated engineering
services.
11.    The North Road has been given the highest priority both in the
National and Central American regional highway investment program. One-
third of Honduras' total population live in its zone of influence, where
the main cities and most of the country's manufacturing and processing
facilities are located, as well as about one quarter of the country's total
farm area, Out of the total number of motor vehicles registered in Hon-
duras, about 75% are in the project's zone of influence. The North Road
will replace a narrow winding gravel road. Assuming a reasonable annual
rate of increase in road traffic, the design of the road would ensure
adequate capacity to accommodate future traffic subject to certain rela-
tively minor improvements of the pavement to be made in due course.  A
20% rate of return on the investment has been calculated on the conserva-
tive assumption that the economic life of the project would be limited to
20 years.  This leaves aside benefits which cannot readily be expressed
in monetary terms such as substantial saving in time for both passengers
and freight, better access to excellent agricultural land and forests and
better integration of the northern and southern parts of the country.
12.    The total cost of the project is estimated at the equivalent of
$23.6 million of which about 60% represents foreign exchange expenditure.
The Bank and the Association would together provide $905 million and the
Inter-American Development Bank has confirmned that it is prepared in
principle to contribute an equal amount.   IADB financing would include $8
million from its Fund for Special Operations - i.e. 4% per annum rate of
interest and repayment in local currency within 25 years. IADB loan
documents are scheduled to be signed in February. The remaining $14.6
million would be provided by the Government from budgetary resources.
13.    In addition to its contribution to the project the Government, as
noted in paragraph 3 above, is providing about $2.3 million equivalent out
of its own resources for the improvement to satisfactory standards of two
additional sections of the North Road. The Government also agreed during
the negotiations to raise the annual allocation for highway maintenance
to about U.S.$2 million equivalent, one-third more than in recent years.
14.    The project has been soundly planned with the assistance of competent
consultants. Construction will be under the general responsibility of the
Highway Department of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications and



- 5 -
arrangements are such as to assure that the project will be properly carried
out. Unit price contracts twill be at-arded on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
PART IV - LEGAL IFSTRUIENTS AITD AU,FORITTY
15.    The Loan and Credit Agreements wlhichl are being circulated to the
Executive Directors separately conform to the customary pattern for
projects of this type.
16.    The following provisions are of special interest:
i)  Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement provides that no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account unless and until all amounts
under the Credit Agreement s,nall have been disbursed or cancelled.
ii)  Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreemert specifies the mini.,um annual
contribution which the Borrower undertakes to appropriate for
tihe purposes of the Project and provides that any amount undis-
bursed during the specific year shall be transferred to a special
account in the Banco Central de Honduras to be disbursed in
subsequent years for the purposes of the Project.
iii)  Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement provides t}at the Borrower
shall give priority to the Project in the allocation of highway
funds and resources and, until the Project is carried out, shall
not undertake any highway construction project or program of
such magnitude as may adversely affect the execution of the
Project.
iv) Section 2.04 of the Credit Agreement provides that the charge
for any special commitment shall be 1/2 of 1% per annum rather
than 3/4 of l16, per annum which has up to now been the practice.
v)  Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement incorporates by reference
certain pertinent covenants contained in the Loan Agreement
and Section 4.02 limits the duration of some of these covenants
to the term of the Bank Loan.
vi) The effectiveness of the loan documents of the three lending
agencies involved (the Bank, the Association and the Inter-
American Development Bank) will be interdependent. The Credit
Agreement shall not be made effective until the Loan Agreement
is declared effective and the Loan Agreement will not be declared
effective until the IADB Loan Agreements have been entered into



on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IADB Agreements
are fulfilled. ( See Section 7.01 of Loan Agreement and Section
6.01 of Credit Agreement).
vii)  Section 5.12 of the Loan Agreement provides that if the Borrower
sha'l prepay any part of the IADB Loans or the IDA Credit, it
shall simultaneously prepay a proportionate cmount of the Bank
Loan.  In addition, the Loan Agreement modifies Section 5.02
of the Loan Regulations in giving the Bank the right to suspend,
or in certain cases to pre-mature, the Loan upon the occurrence
of certain events specified Ln either the IDA Credit or IADB
Agreements. The Credit Agreement modifies Section 5.02 of the
Credit Regulations in a similar fashion.
17.   The Loan and Credit Agreements will be presented for ratification
by the Constituent Assembly which will be elected on February l1.
PART V - THE ECONO1;Y
18.   The report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Honduras" (II-132a dated January 17, i96L) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on January 23, 196ll.  This report drew attention to the fact
that, while the efforts developed since l157 by the Authorities to provide
the economy of the countrJ with some of its basic infrastructure require-
ments have now begun to pay off, Honduras is still the least developed of the
Central American countries, both in terms of natural and human resources.
Since 1962 the GNP at constant prices has been growing at an encouraging
rate of about 5 annually.   The grow^.th was paced by the recovery of banana
exports in 1962, but since then a rapid growth has taken place in lesse-
exports (such as coffee and cotton), industrial production and production
of staple foods for domestic consumption and export.
19. The Honduran Governmenti has for several years followed a conservative
fiscal policy and increases in expenditures have been largely limited to
high priority uses, such as education. At the same time, however, the share
of GNP taken in taxation has remained lo0T (about 9-l0'' of GNP). Conscious
of this sluggishness, the Government at the end of 1963 introduced new
tax measures which should lead, on the basis of nine months' data, to a
17 to 20% increase in revenues in 1964, and are likely to make tax revenues
more responsive to the growth of the economy in future years. In the
immediate years ahead, hovever, the expected increase in current ex-
penditures, particularly education, will probably take up most of this
rise in revenues. Thus, while in the longer run the public sector should
be able to finance a growtring proportion of its investment requirements out
of the country's own resources, the amount of public savings available for
investment is not likely to expand very fast.



- 7 -
20.   Its relatively low le-vel of external debt and prospective economic
growth should enable Honduras to finance a significant part of its ex-
ternal capital requirements on conventional terms. But if all of these
requirements were supplied on such terms, debt service would r se steeply
by 1967-1968.  Borrowing on this basis would be imprudent in v evi of the
uncertain outlook for exiports, except for bananas where substantial increases
seem to be assured.  Hence, taidng into consideration Honduras' much improved
fiscal effort, it seems reasonable that some part of the financing of the
proposed project be provided in the form of an ID;- credit.  As noted in
paragraph 7 above, the twvo other projects which are under consideration are
expected to be financed by Bank loans.
PART VI - CO0IPLIANCE WITI1 TmE ARTICT.S OF AGREEiENT
21.   I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of thie Bank and of the Association
respectively.
PART VII - RECOMEYDffTIOJ
22.   I recommend that:
(a) The- Executive Directors of tCe Bank adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLTVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of
Honduras in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
six million United States dollars (U.S.¼6,0oo,oOO) to
mature on and prior to April 1, 1990, to bear interest at
the rate of five and one-half per cent (5-1/2,) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall
be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Worth Road Project)
between the Bank and the Republic of Honduras, which has
been presented to this meeting.
(b) The Executive Directors of the Association adopt the
following resolution:
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit



- 8 -
to the Republic of Honduras in an amnount in various
currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
United States dollars (U.S.-3,500,00o), to mature on and
prior to October 1, 2014, to bear a service charge at the
rate of three-fourthls of one per cent (3/4 of l,J) per
annum, and to be upon such other terims and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agree-
ment (North Road Project) bettveen the Association and the
Republic of Honduras,which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
January 19, 1965



