Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9823-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 19, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contb '   Vt   rW" vw 7  '' "    Wit  ^ W  ' D II  ,, I. f,X



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit        Cedis C
USS1.0   a    Cedis 375
1.0 Cedi   *   USS.0027
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (hs)          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)     m    0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (t)     u    2,205 pounds Cib)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF              - African Development Fund                 NTADS            - Mediun Term Agricultural
ADT              - Average Daily Traffic                                        Development Strategy
AGSAP            - AgriculturaL Sector                      MTC              - Ministry of Transport and
AdJustment Proaram                                          Communications
BHC              - Bank for Housing and                     MTPU             - Mechanical Training and
Construction                                                Production Unit
CRP              - Cocoa Rehabilitation Project             NFRDP            - National Feeder Roads
CTC              - Central Training Center                                      Development Program
DANIDA           - Danish International                     NFRRMP           -  National Feeder Roads
Developnent Agency                                          Rehabilitation and
DFR              - Department of Feeder Roads                                   Maintenance Project
DUR              - Department of Urban Roads                NGO              -  Non-Governmental Organization
EPC              - Enviromnental Protection                 OPEC             - Organization of Petroleun
Council                                                     Exporting Countries
ERP              - Economic Recovery Program                PANSCAD          - Program of Actions to Mitigate
ERR              - Economic Rate of Return                                      the Social Costs of Adjustment
GDP              - Gross Domestic Product                                       in Development
GHA              - Ghana Highway Authority                  PCR              - Project CompLetion Report
GIMPA            - Ghana Institute of Management            PKU              -  Project Management Unit
and Public Administration              PNDC              -  Provisional National Defense
GOG              - Goverrnent of Ghana                                          Council
ICB              -  International Competitive               PPF              - Project Preparation Facility
Bidding                                RRMP              - Road Rehabilitation and
IFAD             -  International Fund for                                      Maintenance Program
Agricultural Development               RTPU              - Road Training and Production
IBRD             -  International Bank for                                      Unit
Reconstruction & Development           SAR               - Staff Appraisal Report
ILO              -  International Labour                    SDR              - Special Drawing Rights
Organization                           SIAN              - Spot Inprovement and
INT              -  Intermediate Means of                                       Maintenance Units
Transport                              ShC               - Single Man Contractors
LCB              -  Local Competitive Bidding               SOE              - Statement of Expenditure
LOI              - Letter of Invitation                     TOR              -  Terms of Reference
MA               - Ministry of Agriculture                  TRP-1            -  First Transport Rehabilitation
MFEP             - Ministry of Finance and                                      Project
Economic Planning                      TRP-2             - Second Transport
MLG              - Ministry of 'acal Goverrunent                                Rehabilitatirn Project
MREMAT           - Mobile Repair and                        UNDP             - United Nations Development
Maintenance Units                                           Progra_
MPBS                M Maintenance Performance and           UNV              - United Nations Volunteers
Budgeting System                       USAID             - United States Agency for
NRH              - Ministry of Roads and                                        International Development
Highways                               WFP               - World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -  December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No:
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   .........                                .......................   i
I.  INTRODUCTION   .               ....................................                              1
II. BACKGROUND .......................................  1
A.       The Country and its Macroeconomic Setting ..............    1
B.       The Agricultural Sector  ...........                 ...............    2
C.       The Transport Sector    ............................    3
D.       Government Decentralization Policy and Strategy   . ...... ...    5
E.       Bank Group Assistance in Agriculture and Roads   ...                   .......    7
Ell. FEEDER ROAD  CONSTRAINTS AND  STRATEGY  ...............    8
A.  Feeder Road Organization.                                                              8
B.  Institutional Capacity.                                                                9
C.       District Routine Maintenance Organization ....                   ...........   11
D.       Feeder Road Planning and Selection ...................   12
E.       Design and Technology Choices  .....................   13
F.       Feeder Road Development Strategy  .............                         .....   14
IV.  THE PROJECT   ...................................                                              16
A.       Pro ect Objectives .........                                             ...   16
B.   Pro ect Description .............................. 16
C.       Pro ect Cost and Financing  .. :              .....................   21
D.       Project Design and Implementation   ......                  .............  24
E.       Status of Project Preparation   .......               ................   27
F.       Procurement  .................................   28
G.   Disbursements ................................. 30
H.       Accounting and Auditing .........                  .................   30
I.       Rcporting and Monitoring  ........                 .................   31
J.       Environmental Assessment  ........                   ................   31
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................                                                        32
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .....                                       ............. 35
The project was prepaped on the basis of a prm-appraisal mission in January/Fcbnary 1991 and an appraisal mission in uno /luly
1991 by Moss. A. Nickesen (Mission Leader, Transpott Specialist), S. Demissie (Highway Engineer), J. Gaviria (Transpott
Specilist), K. Adarkwa (Transport Econonsti, Consultant), E. Connerley and IL Elison (Decentralization/Local Govemment
SpeciaIsts, Conultants) and S. McCormick (Environmental Specialist, Consultant). Mr. T. Pankqj (Principal Transpoat
Specialist) initiated the project and contributed the rural mobility comnponent. Mess. P. Taylor (Insitutional Specialist,
Consultant) ad A. Coleman (ILO, Consultant) asseed the institutionl and labor-based construction components of the project,
respectively. Editing was done by Mr. H. Young (Consultant). Mrs. A. Aruaza (Conaultant) provided computing asistance.
Secreial work was done by Mrs. U. Raymond. Peer reviewers for the report were Mesrs. 1. Riverson (Transport Economist)
and C. Mensckhoff (Principal Transport Specialist). Mesrs. J. Wright and E. Urm are the Division Chief and Director,
respectively, of this opeation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
2-1    Ministty of Roads and Highways, Organization Chart
2-2    Administrative Structure of Decentralization
2-3    District Planning and Composite Budgeting Process
3-1    DFR Headquarters and Regional Offices, Organization Charts
3-2    Condition and Surface Types of Feeder Roads by Region (1991)
3-3    DFR Personnel in Post as of August 1991
3-4   The Road Committee System
3-5    Experience with Voluntary Community Labor
3-6    Road Area Prioritization and Feeder Road Pre-Selection
3-7   Foreign-Exchange Comparison Equipment/Labor-Intensive Works
3-8   Status of Domestic Construction Industry
3-9    DFR Road Work Accomplishments (1983-1990)
3-10  DFR Expenditures and Sources of Funding (1983-1990)
3-11   Feeder Road Development Program (1992-1999)
3-12   Total and Annual Funding Needs for Feeder Road Works (1992-1999)
3-13   Anticipated Financing Plan for Feeder Road Works (1992-1999)
4-1    DFR Equipment Status
4-2    Organization and Management Study
4-3    Maintenance Performance Budgeting System
4-4    Monitoring and Evaluation
4-5    Recommended DFR Organization
4-6    DFR Staffing Requirements
4-7    DFR Staff Training Program
4-8    Domestic Construction Industry Assessment and Development Study
4-9    Rural Mobility and Environment
4-10  Institutional Arrangements for District Routine Maintenance
4-11   District Resource Mobilization Potelitial
4-12   Summary and Detailed Project Cost Tables
4-13   Detailed Financing Plan
4-14   Schedule for Processing Procurement and Implementation
4-15   Project Supervision Plan
4-16  Monitoring Matrix
4-17  Detailed Time-Bound Action Program for DFR Institutional Strengthening
4-18  Detailed Procurement Table
4-19  Disbursement Schedule
4-20  Environmental Assessment
5-1    Economic Analysis
5-2   Listing of Selected Feeder Roads for Phases 1 and 2
6-1    Documents in the Project File
IBRD 23004 Transport System, Project Zones, and Conservation Reserves
AF4IN
November 1991



i
REPUBLIC -OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PMROJECT SUMMARY
Mliorrower:               The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:            Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH); Department of
Feeder Roads (DFR)
redit Amount:             SDR 40.5 million (US$55.0 million equivalent)
T&=ms:                    Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
ProIect Description:      The aim of the project is to support economic development in
rural areas by removing physical constraints in feeder road
infrastructure, reducing rural tramnmtl' costs for goods and
passengers, and supporting farm production and marketing.
The four year project includes the following main components:
(a) a feeder road rehabilitation program to be executed by
contract; (b) a feeder road periodic maintenance program to be
executed by contract; and establishment of a sustainable
maintenance management system; (c) an institutional
strengthening and support program for feeder road planning,
design, supervision and quality control; (d) a rural mobility
and environmental program; and (e) support to DFR to assist
in its decentralization. The project will support the goals of
the Government's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) and the
Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS)
and will complement the trunk and cocoa road rehabilitation
programs currently underway with IDA financing.
PoQject Benefits and Risks:   The main project benefit will be a more efficient and cost
effective rural transport system that will stimulate agricultural
production and marketing, aid rural employment. The
principal quantifiable projict benefits are: (a) value added in
additional agricultural production; and (b) reduced transport
costs to road users. Key non-quantifiable benefits comprise:
(a) increased direct employment in the rural economy; (b)
improved access to social services through increased rural
mobility; (c) improved quality of life especially for women;
and (d) environmental improvements in terms of reduced soil
erosion potential. There are no major risks associated with
the implementation of this project. Timely execution of the
physical components of the project will depend largely on
early Government approval of procurement of works and
selection of design and supervision consultants. Risks concern
difficulties in developing a sustainable feeder road maintenance



ii
system; constraints in DFR institutional capacity; and increases
in cost of feeder road rehabilitation works. These risks will
be addressed by obtaining Government assurance for adequate
and timely funding of routine and recurrent maintenance; by
establishment of a maintenance performance budgeting system
to be operated by DFR; by DFR staff training, hiring of
sflicient middle level professional and technical staff as well
as technical assistance to fill critical positions; and by adoption
of cost effective methods of feeder road design and prompt
payment to contractors for completed wo,ks.
Estimated Proiect Costs                       Local Foreign       Total
---US$ Millions--
A. Feeder Road Proram,
1. Feeder Road Rehabilitation                 21.9    17.5        39.4
2. Feeder Road Regravelling                    9.8     10.0        19.8
3. Culverts/Spot Improvements                  3.6      1.1        4.7
4. Maintenance/Workshop Equipment              0.3      3.5        3.8
5. Design and Supervision                      1.3      1.4        2.7
Subtotal                                    36.9    33.5        70.4
B. Institutional Sunport Program
1. Management Line Positions                   0.2      1.0        1.2
2. Technical Line Positions                    0.2      1.4        1.6
3. United Nations Volunteers                   0.1      0.1        0.2
4. Studies                                     0.3      0.6        0.9
5. Training                                    0.3      1.0        1.3
6. Construction Industry Support               0.5      4.1        4.6
7. Rural Mobility and Environment              0.8      1.1        1.9
8. DFR Decentralization Support                Q,        6         1.4
Subtotal                                     3.2      9.9       13.1
Total Project Base Cost                       40.1    43.4         83.5
Physical Contingencies                        3.8     3.4         7.2
Price Contingencies                           5 1      m          Lk
Total Project Cost                            49.0    50.3        99.3
Taxes & Duties                                 ,      =f6:
Total Project Cost (including Taxes)           N5106



tii
Financing Plan
LpS21 Foreign      Total
-----US$ Millions--
IDA                                           27.3    27.7        55.0
Government of Ghana (Road Fund and Budget)     8.4      0.0        8.4
USAID                                         20.0      1.0       21.0
DANIDA                                         0.0    15.0        15.0
OPEC                                           0.0      5.0        5.0
Japanese Grant Fund                            0,0      li         16
Total                                         SSl
Estimated IDA Disbursements,
IDA FiscalYear            EY92  E          FY94  FY5       FY97
---US$ Millions              -
Annual                    0.5   11.5  14.9  14.3   10.4  3.4
Cumulative                0.5   12.0  26.9  41.2   51.6  55.0
Economic Rate of Return:    44%, based on quantifiable benefits from project components
covering 76% of total project costs.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECI
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01         Inadequacy of feeder roads poses a serious constraint on agricultural production and
marketing in Ghana. In many rural areas, transport costs account for up to 70 percent of marketing
costs as a result of the poor state of the feeder road network. Such costs would decrease substantially
if the rural road system wtfu improved. Many fertile farming areas have lost access to markets due
to poor roads which hinder mobility and often make head-porterage the only alternative for
transporting agri.kultural produce and inputs. However, headloading is costly and slow, it constrains
labor supply at harvest time, and it contributes to rural poverty. Thus, feeder road bottlenecks arising
from prolonged neglect of maintenance constrain Ghana's farm production and marketing, factor
mobility, exports and most non-farm activities vital for economic recovery and growth.
1.02         Feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance is a crucial part of Ghana's agricultural
development and its economic recovery and growth strategies, to alleviate poverty and ensure food
security. A start was made under earlier IDA trunk road and transport projects to upgrade the
maintenance of feeder roads and to strengthen the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR), the agency
responsible for them. While progress has been made in rehabilitating feeder roads in selected areas
and in building up the DFR, the main tasks still lie ahead. The restoration of feeder roads and
further strengthening of the DFR will take about a decade of concerted action. The Government of
Ghana (GOG) has sought IDA's support in designing and implementing such a program, and the
proposed project would finance the first phase of the program; complementing the ongoing transport
sector operations under the Transport Rehabilitation (TRP-1 and TRP-2) Projects whose main
emphasis is on rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of trunk roads. These projects are needed to
rebuild Ghana's road network, and are part of a phased restoration of the transport sector.
11. BACKGROUN12
A.    The Country and its Macroeconomic Setting
2.01         Resource Endowment. Ghana is a medium-sized country (239,000 sq km) with a
widely scattered population estimated at about 14 million in mid-1991. More than 70 percent live in
rural areas. The country's economic potential is great: it has vast timber resources, its agricultural
possibilities are considerable and it was once the world's leading cocoa producer. Mineral resources
include manganese, bauxite, gold, and diamonds, and petroleum exploration is under way. In the
first decade after Independence (1956), Ghana had one of the highest per capita incomes in Africa,
and it had one of the best levels of physical infrastructure and human resources in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
2.02         Past PeRformanc. In spite of the country's potential, a continuous decline in per
capita income after the early 1960s increased absolute poverty and worsened the income distribution.
For two decades prior to 1983 the Ghanaian economy was characterized by (i) a bias in favor of
industrialization; (ii) a large but inefficient public sector; and (iii) a neglect of agriculture with a
decline in agricultural output, even though it had been the country's most important foreign exchange



- 2 -
earner. The resulting macroeconomic imbalance led to a widespread system of price and import
controls. By 1983, per capita income was half that in 1970, most economic activity was in the
parallel market, physical inftastructure had deteriorated substantially, and the bHlance of payment
situation was so weakened that the country accumulated large external debt and payments arrears.
2.03         Present Situation. It was against this background that the Government introduced the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in April 1983 in order to (i) re-establish fiscal and monetary
discipline as a means of stabilizing the economy; (ii) restore relative prices in order to improve
producer incentives and encourage private sector participation in economic development; and (iii,
rebuild the co-itry's social, economic, and physical infrastructure. The ERP was the most extensive
of those attempted in Sub-Saharan Africa. Policies in the first three years focused on stabilizing the
economy by reducing fiscal deficits, reducing demand pressure through reduced credit, and stabilizing
prices. The reforms of the exchange rate system improved incentives for exporters and helped to
improve export performance. From 1986, the program moved into the structural adjustment phase
which focused on incentive policies, domestic resource mobilization, and public resource
management. The Government has also undertaken reforms in specific sectors, particularly
agriculture.
2.04         As a result of the fundamental macroeconomic reforms implemented since the
launching of the ERP, the economy expanded. The ERP measures led to an annual growth rate in
GDP of 5.3 percent between 1984 and 1988, 6 percent in 1989 and 2.7 percent in 1990 in real terms.
This is in sharp contrast to average declines of 0.9 per cera per annum between 1975 and 1982, and
of 4.6 percent in 1983. The reform program has laid the foundation for long-term growth. The civil
service has been rationalized, and the financial sector has been strengthened by the revision of
banking rules. Significant resources are being and will continue to be invested in transport
infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance, including trunk and feeder roads, ports, and railways.
B.    TheAfricuitural Sector
2.05         Sector Characteristics. Agriculture is the mainstay of the Ghanaian ecinomy,
contributing more than 75 percent of merchandise exports and about 50 percent of GDP. It employs
about 60 percent of the labor force. The sector is predominantly smallholder, traditional and rain-fed.
Farming systems have developed over time as adaptations to the major agro-ecological zones in the
country. Mixed cropping to minimize risks, and the widespread integration of livestock into the
farming systems are frequent. In the forest zone, important tree crops are cocoa, oil palm, coffee and
rubber, while inter-cropped mixtures of maize, plantain, cocoyam and cassava are the principal food
crops. The transition zone is characterized by mixed or sole cropping of maize, legunes, cocoyam or
yam, with tobacco and cotton as the predominant cash crops. In the savannah zone, main food crops
are sorghum, maize, cowpeas and yam in the wetter areas, whilst sorghum, millet and cowpeas
prevail in the drier north. Cotton and tobacco are also important cash crops in this zone. Rice is
grown in seasonally flooded valley bottoms. In general, average yields are low throughout the
country.
2.06         Sector Performance. As with other sectors, agriculture was severely hindered by the
economic policies of the 1970s and early 1980s. While agricultural growth between 1975 and 1982
declined steadily at about 1.0 percent per annum, and in 1983 decreased even further by 4.6 percent
due to a severe drought, the decline was reversed in 1984 as a result of improved incentives brought
about by the ERP. The agricultural sector is now adjusting to fundamental changes in macro-
economic policy and the elimination of a policy bias against agriculture. The growth rate of
agricultural production between 1984 and 1988 averaged about 1.9 percent per annum; in 1989 it was



about 5.9 percent and in 1990 it was 1.5 percent. The recovery was brought about mainly by the
performance of the cocoa and forestry sub-sectors. The slow growth in agriculture was largely due to
continuing structural impediments such as (i) poor condition of the road infrastructure; (ii) weak
marketing systems; and (iii) the poor state of agricultural support services.
2.07          Government Obiectives. GOG's long term objectives for the sector include food self
sufficiency and security, higher employment and incomes in rural areas, regional balanced growth and
a larger contribution of the sector to GDP, foreign exchange earnings and government revenues.
Agriculture will contintue to be the mainstay of the economy for the foreseeable future. The country
has the potential to use its agriculture as the basis for sustained economic growth and development,
given its immense agricultural resource base. The key to realizing this potential lies in providing an
enabling environment for private producers by: (i) continued liberalization of prices; (ii) increasing
access for the private sector to markets and agriculturtl inputs; (iii) raising agricultural productivity
through a vigorous and responsive agricultural services system; (iv) encouraging more efficient
processing, storage and marketing systems; and (v) improving feeder road and other transport
infrastructure.
2.08          Sector Strategy. To achieve these objectives, GOG and the Bank have prepared the
Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS). This strategy is based on the premise
that Ghanaian farmers will respond to suitable incentives to increase production of both food and cash
crops. The strategy uses simultaneous implementation of export promotion (tree crops and fisheries)
and import substitution (cotton, maize, rice and meat). It is intended to: (i) improve the agricu!tural
policy and marketing framework allowing prices to be market based, introducing greater marker
efficiency and increasing investment in marketing infrastructure (including feeder roads and drying
and storage facilities); (ii) strengthen agricultural sector coordination; (iii) establish a framework for
improved allocation of public sector resources; and (iv) improve the focus on poverty alleviation and
the environment. In order to overcome the sector specific policy and structural impediments, GOG is
presently preparing an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (AGSAP) with IDA support. This
program is in line with the MTADS and will support it.
C.    The Tranpoll Sct
2.09          Sector Overview. Key elements of Ghana's transport system are: (i) a network of
about 14,400 km of trunk and urban arterial roads and about 21,300 km of feeder roads; (ii) an over-
aged road fleet of some 130,000 vehicles; (iii) a 950 km railway system linking Accra, Tema, Kumasi
and Takoradi; (iv) deep-water ports at Tema and Takoradi; (v) an inland water transport system on
the Volta Lake; (vi) an international airport at Accra and domestic airports at Kumasi and Tamale;
and (vii) a national airline providing international and domestic services. Road transport is the
dominant mode in the system, and about 90 percent of it is operated by the private sector, with easy
market entry and little government regulation of its operations. Ports, lake transport, railways and
civil aviation are dominated by the public sector. Though it intervened on a large scale in the
transport sector in the past, GOG now clearly favors st.engthening private sector operations,
streamlining and reorganizing public transport enterpri.;>, and privatizing many of them.
2.10          Str Qbjectives. Government's primary sector objectives emphasize
(i) rehabilitation and maintenance of existing transport infrastructure in a phased program, with a
minimal amount of new construction, and (ii) strengthening institutions in the sector. The network of
trunk and rural roads is by far the most important part of the transport system. Though recent
projects are gradually improving road conditions, particularly for the trunk roads, the overall road



- 4 -
network is still in a generally poor sate. It therefore needs the largest share of resources and the
longest period to regain capacity.1/
2.11         Road Administration. The Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH) and its three
agencies, Ghana Highway Authority (GHA), DFR and Department of Urban Roads (DUR), are the
organizations which plan and implement road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance. MRH was
set up in 1982, as a separate ministry in charge of roads and highways, with a nucleus of technical
staff that reports to the Secretary of Roads and Highways. GHA was established in 1974 as an
autonomous body with its own Board of Directors appointed by the Government, but the Board has
recently been replaced by an Interim Management Committee. GHA has a staff of some 6,500 spread
over the central office in Accra, 10 regional offices and 32 road area offices. It also has a central
workshop and a number of smal! regional workshops. GHA has 70 engineers, 60 technician
engineers as well as some 670 technical and supervising staff. DFR and DUR were established in
1981 and 1983, respectively, and function as civil service agencies under MRH. DFR staff includes
36 engineers, some 40 other professional staff and 330 technical personnel. It maintains small offices
in all regions and in 10 road areas. DUR has a staff of about 200, including 10 engineers and offices
in the main cities, where it works with th- city councils. Annex 2-1 shows the organization chart of
MRH.
2.12         Institutional Achievements and Requirements. The most important achievements in
recent transport and road projects include: (i) implementing a phased 10-year program (1988-1997) to
rehabilitate and maintain the trunk road network, and start of work to organize feeder roads planning,
rehabilitation and maintenance; (ii) strengthening MRH, GHA, DFR and DUR through technical
assistance in key areas and through training; (iii) reducing the share of force account works carried
out by direct departmental labor; (iv) setting up a Road Fund to ensure the regular flow of funds to
the agencies and contractors; (v) starting pilot projects for introduc.ing labor-intensive rural road
rehabilitation; and (vi) improving contractor capacity through sub-loans for equipment and spare
parts, training, competitive bidding for all works, and ensuring prompt payments to contractors. The
main institutional support needs which remain in MRH, GHA, DFR, and DUR are: (i) technical
assistance in specialized areas where local engineers are not available; (ii) an enlarged inter-agency
training program to improve existing staff skills and to train newly graduated engineers; (iii)
incentives such as housing for key officials and food aid through the World Food Program (WFP),
which has helped to improve productivity; and (iv) training and advice to domestic contractors and
consultants to fuither improve their technical and managerial efficiency. The ongoing First and
Second Transport Rehabilitation Projects and the Second Urban Project provide such support to
MRH, GHA, DFR and DUR; additional support for DFR will be provided through this project.
2.13        DIomestic Contracting and Consulting Industries. With the increased road
rehabilitation and maintenance works financed under ongoing road and transport projects, the
domestic contracting and consulting industries are developing well. There are some 145 local road
contractors classified by the Government in categories Al to A4 according tc capacity, some 310
small bridge and strictures contractors (classifications Bi to B4), and some 47 labor-intensive local
road contractors classified as class C. Previous projects have included substantial provisions for lines
1/ More detailed information on Ghana's transport sector was given in SAR-6921 GH for the
First Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP-1), presented to the Board on May 27, 1988,
updated in SAR-8945-GH for the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP-2), presented
to the Board on December 13, 1990. The following presentation concentrates on road sub-
sector issues which are of relevance to feeder roads.



- 5 -
of credit and technical assistance to strengthen domestic contractors. The economic reforms
implemented in the country including foreign exchange 1 .eralization, have enabled contractors to
have easy access to foreign exchange for spare parts and equipment. They have also encouraged the
return of Ghanaian engineers to Ghana, particularly to consultancy firms which, often with foreign
cour. -rparts, are undertaking a substantial share of trunk and feeder road engineering design and
construction supervision. There are at present some 12 local consulting firms working on road
projects. In addition, a large number of foreign contractors and consultants are active in Ghana's
road sub-sector.
2.14         R-oad Sub-Sector Strategy. The Government strategy for road rehabilitation and
maintenance recently evolved into two separate branches, one for trunk roads and another for feede
roads. A trunk road network stabilization plan supported by the TransDort Rehabilitation Priects
(r1RP) was developed in 1987, with the aim of clearing the backlog of rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance requirements on paved and gravel roads during the 1988-1997 period. The purpose of
the plan is to stabilize the trunk road network condition at an acceptable 70% good and 30% fair or
poor ratio, thus almost reversing the ratio prevailing in 1987. On the basis of the stabilization plan,
the 1988-1997 requirements for trunk roads total about 11,300 km of rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance, and some 1,500 km of reconstruction and upgrading works.
2.15         Feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance became relatively well organized around
1986/87 after DFR became a stronger organization. So far, the feeder road program has concentrated
on: (i) rehabilitation of cocoa roads (trunk and feeder roads in cocoa growing areas) under the
ongoing Cocoa Rehabilitation Project; (ii) rehabilitation of non-cocoa feeder roads on a selective
basis; and (iii) introduction of a successful labor-intensive road rehabilitation program based on light
equipment and contractor training and support. IDA has assisted DFR in these activities and in
preparing a long-term rural road strategy. To support its MTADS, the Government, with IDA and
other donor support, has recently prepared a 7 year National Feeder Roads Development Program
(NFRDP) for the mid-1992 to mid-1999 period. This project will be the first 4-year slice of this
program, starting in early 1992 and concentrating on institutional strengthening, feeder road
rehabilitation and maintenance, and establishment of a sustainable maintenance performance budgeting
system involving local governments in the districts and local wmnunities for routine maintenance.
D.    Government Decentralization Policy and Strategy
2.16         Despite a long and complex history of attempts to decentralize government in Ghana,
the Government remains highly centralized in Accra. Decentralization has been an announced, high
priority policy objective of the Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) since 1983. Previous
Governments have also sensed the need to improve government performance through a variety of
decentralization schemes. In large part, these efforts had failed to achieve their objectives in the past.
2.17         The principal recent accomplishment of the PNDC Government with respect to its
intent to decentralize has been the enactment of PNDC Law 207, the 'Local Government Law of
1988." Law 207 deals with virtually every aspect of local government such as Regional Coordinating
Councils, District Assemblies and Metropolitan Authorities. However, its primary focus is on district
governments, whose powers are greatly enhanced thereby.
2.18         PNDC Law 207 defines some of the key mechanisms by which the Government
intends to decentralize its operations. The primary strategy is to devolve the central government's
administrative and political authority to local levels (i.e. regions, districts, towns and villages), with



- 6 -
the District Assembly being the centerpiece of administrative and political authority. Among the
principal functions of the 110 district governments are the following:
-      Supervision of the field operations of twenty-two central government departments;
-     Responsibility for overall development of the district;
-      Preparation and submission of annual development plans and composite budgets to the
PNDC (via Regional Coordinating Councils);
-     Formulation of programs and strategies for mobilizing and utilizing district human and
financial resources;
-     Promotion and support of productive activity and social development; and
-      Initiation of programs for the development of basic infrastructure, municipal works
and services.
2.19          PNDC Law 207 mandates that District Assemblies shall have administrative and
financial control of the district-level operations of twenty-two departments of the central government,
including the DFR. For all practical purposes the staff of the District Assembly would therefore
include not only core officers of district administration, but also all civil service employees of the
twenty-two departments. The administrative structure of decentralization contemplated by PNDC
Law 207 is described in Annex 2-2. Annex 2-3 contains a summary of the district planning and
composite budgeting process.
2.20          To date, no department has transferred budget administration to direct district control.
Some departments have begun to place staff under district supervision, particularly those that were
already involved in local operations prior to Law 207. For instance, the Department of Community
Development has officers in each District Assembly headquarters who are supervised by District
Secretaries. However, this department has not yet decentralized its budget.
2.21          Numerous delays in implementing key aspects of Law 207 should not be interpreted
as a lack of interest. Implementation is slow precisely because it involves very significant shifts of
authority and resources, primarily from the ministries and departments to the districts and District
Assemblies. Nevertheless, many officials believe that the commitment to decentralization is
irreversible.
2.22          The principal objective sought by the PNDC through decentralization is to place
political and professional supervision as close to implementation as possible. The PNDC believes that
there is currently little linkage between political leadership and implementation activities. In the
process of decentralization it is hoped that the current vertical linkages, which run on departmental
and ministerial lines, will be broken down and replaced by a combination of direct vertical linkages to
the PNDC and better horizontal linkages across departments at the district level. It is hoped that this
will speed up decision-making, while leaving the ministries with policy formulation, project
monitoring and evaluation.



- 7 -
E.    Bank Group Assistance in Agriculture and Roads
2.23         In addition to the support for the ERP through the MTADS and its AGSAP, a number
of projects have been financed within the agricultural sector to overcome particular constraints.
These include the Second Oil Palm Project (Credit 1498-GH in 1984) and the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Proiejt (Credit 1854-GH in 1988, comprising a large cocoa roads component), to provide a broad
spectrum of support to the oil palm and cocoa sub-sectors; the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1801-GH in 1987), to develop a range of agricultural services; the Rural Finance
Proe  (Credit 2040-GH) to improve the efficiency of financial institut;ons; and the Agricultural
Diversification Prgiect (Credit 2180-GH in 1990), to promote the production of tree and horticultural
crops, and gradually reduce Ghana's over-dependence on cocoa. Support to the forestry sub-sector is
being provided through the Forest Resource Management Project (Credit 1976-GH in 1989). A
National Agricultural Research Project has recently been approved. The key element in all these
projects is the development of the role of the private sector in agricultural production and input
supply.
2.24         In the roads sub-sector, apart from an engineering credit for US$1.5 m in 1969 for
the preparation of road projects, the Bank Group has provided four highway credits (one credit/loan
combined), two transport credits, and two urban credits with road components. The First Highway
Uroiec (Credit 438-GH for US$13.0 m in 1974) was completed in early 1981 while the Socond
Highway Project (Credit 594-GH for US$10.0 m and Loan 1182-GH for US$18.0 m in 1975) was
completed in 1983. The Third Higihway Project (Credit 1029-GH for US$25.0 m in 1980) was fully
disbursed by late 1986. These three projects were completed five, four, and three years, respectively,
behind the SARs' estimated completion dates. The projects focused on trunk road rehabilitation and
maintenance; institution building of GHA; and development of domestic construction and private
trading industries through provision of funds for the purchase of equipment and spare parts on an on-
lending arrangement through the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC).
2.25         The main conclusions from experience with these early road projects covering the
period from 1974 to 1986 (based on audit completion reports) were that: (a) the objectives were
sound but the targets for almost all components were unrealistically high because negative aspects of
the economic environment were either discounted or overlooked; (b) targets for institutional building
were only partially met mainly because they were over-optimistic compared to the prevailing
conditions and Government commitment; (c) the domestic construction industry benefitted through
carrying out small civil engineering projects, though some contractors did poorly because works
awarded to them were beyond their technical and financial capacities; (d) the difficult economic
conditions of the country and implementation deficiencies slowed down progress; and (e) all projects
have suffered from inadequate local funding and from shortage of foreign exchange needed to enable
the Government to fulfill local financial obligations.
2.26         Since the first three highway projects, the Bank Group has provided funds for the
Road RehabilitatiQn and Maintenance Proiect (RRMP) (CR 1601-GH for SDR 40.4 m, with additional
CR A-1GH for SDR 10.1 m from the Bank's Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa, and cofinanced by
Japanese Grant 1601-IGH for Yen 100.0 m, African Development Bank, UNDP and MFEP in 1985);
the First Transport Rehabilitation Proiect (TRP-1) (CR 1858-GH for SDR 46.9 m in 1988); and the
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project i RP-2) (CR 2192-GH for SDR 69.0 m in 1991). RRMP
was closed on June 30, 1991; TRP-1 funds are 90% committed as of June, 1991; and TRP-2 became
effective in May, 1991. These three projects vary in their composition of components as follows:
RRMIP consisted of civil works for trunk and feeder roads; training; support to local contractors; and
consultant and TA assistance; TRP-1 consists of civil works for trunk and feeder roads; bridges;



-8-
railway rehabilitation; support to transport sector institutions; pilot programs for road transport and
rural transport; and support for infrastructure planning; and TRP-2 consists of civil works for trunk
roads and bridges; support to the MRH; railway rehabilitation; support to transport sector institutions;
and a Northern Region pilot scheme.
2.27         RRMP was closed after a one-year extension and the credits were fully disbursed.
Physical targets were 70% achieved; policy and institutional objectives have been achieved; the
contracting system was reformed; full competitive bidding was established; domestic contractors and
consultants' capacity have increased; and the feeder roads labor-intensive pilot program proved to be
successful. Implementation of TRP-1, after a slow start, is now progressing well. Accomplishment
of trunk road rehabilitation and maintenance works will be less than the SAR target because of
substantial increases in cost per km due to further deterioration in the condition of the roads. The
increasing backlog in physical works will entail increased deterioration in road conditions requiring
more rehabilitation work rather than the periodic resealing and resurfacing works stipulated under
GPA's trunk road network stabilization program. Start-up of TRP-2 was about six months behind the
agreed implementation schedule, mainly due to the time taken by the Government in approving
procurement. The linkages between the lessons learnt from completed and ongoing road projects and
the design of the feeder roads project are discussed in paras. 4.30 and 4.31.
2.28         Measures for simplifying the procurement approval process were announced at the
Akuse II meeting in May 1991 and confirmed at the infrastructure sector implementation review held
in Accra in July 1991. Once these measures are implemented, progress of the TRP projects is
expected to improve. The Accra District Rehabilitation Project (Urban-I) (Credit 1564-GH for SDR
22.5 m in 1985) included, inter alia, new construction of the ring road in Accra which has been
completed. The Second Urban Project (Urban-2) (Credit 2157-GH for SDR 53.7 m in 1990) became
effective in May 1991. This project includes, inter alia, reconstruction and upgrading of selected
urban road sections in Accra.
HI. FEEDER ROAD CONSTRAINTS AND STRATEGY
A.    Feeder Road Organization
3.01         Feeder Road Administration. Prior to the establishment of DFR in 1981, feeder
roads were the responsibility of various agencies including GHA. At present, feeder road planning,
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance are the sole responsibilities of DFR. Annex 3-1 shows
the existing organization of DFR headquarters and its regional offices. Since its creation, DFR has
been actively supported as the focal point for feeder road development. This support has been
through (i) technical assistance and training; (ii) setting up a Road Fund shared with the trunk road
program to improve resource availability; (iii) training and supporting labor-based contractors for
feeder road rehabilitation; (iv) executing most feeder road rehabilitation works through local
contractors; and (v) expanding the role of local consultants for engineering design and works
supervision. IDA has supported these efforts through feeder road components in three recent
transport and road projects.
3.02         Network Condition and Surface Types. Although existing policies have already
resulted in an enhancement of the DFR role, the overall condition of the feeder road network remains
poor. At present, only 16 percent (some 3,300 km) of feeder roads are in good condition,
constituting DFR's maintainable feeder road network. Roads in this category were rehabilitated



- 9 -
between 1983 and August 1991 and are being maintained to the extent present funding levels allow.
Of the remainder, 24 percent (5,100 km) of the network is in fair condition, and 60 percent (12,900
kin) is in poor or very poor condition. Only 39 percent (8,300 km) of the network is gravel-surfaced
while 60 percent (12,600 km) consists of earth roads. The amount of bitumen-surfaced feeder roads
(300 km or I percent) is negligible. Annex 3-2 shows the condition and surface types of Ghana's
feeder road network by region as of August 1991. This condition mix and DFR's limited absorptive
capacity indicate the need for a concerted effort to step-up physical rehabilitation and establish a
sustainable feeder road maintenance performance budgeting svstem.
3.03          Feeder Road Issues. With Bank and other donor support, and with active GOG
backing, DFR has become an important agency, but its organization is not yet fully developed. Any
large expansion of DFR's activities mandates a close examination of its present capacity and
constraints. Feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance on a larger scale will require:
(i) building institutional capacity; (ii) establishing a sustainable mechanism for district routine
maintenance organizations; (iii) expanding DFR's feeder road planning and selection capacity to
integrate future rehabilitation and maintenance activities, in agreement with national, regional and
district government policies; (iv) reaching a consensus on design and technology choices; and
(v) developing a medium-term feeder road development program including its funding. These issues
are dealt with in the following.
B.    Institutional Capacity
3.04          Institutional Structure and Staffing. Country-wide feeder road works require
substantial preparation and supervision. DFR is a young organization which operates at four levels
in: (i) the head office in Accra, (ii) 10 regional offices in the regional capitals, (iii) 10 out of 32 road
area offices, and (iv) some 30 out of 110 districts. Improvement in some critical areas is essential.
While staffing levels for DFR are generally appropriate, out of 67 engineering posts, only 34 (51
percent) are filled. Experienced middle level engineers are in particularly short supply. Only 33
percent of principal engineers' positions are occupied, and 6 percent of senior engineers' posts are
filled. In the regional organization, only 42 percent of positions for engineers are occupied. The
need for engineers must be met if DFR is to fulfill its role as the focal point for feeder road
development in Ghana. Pay conditions do not compare favorably with GHA or the private sector,
and civil service policies provide inadequate salary differentials. There is also a lack of trained
accountants, and career opportunities for technician engineers and quantity surveyors are poor.
Annex 3-3 gives details of DFR's 1,430 personnel at post as of August 1991.
3.05          Organizational Issues. DFR top managers are qualified, experienced, and well
motivated. Their enthusiasm does much to engender the good level of morale in the organization.
The distribution of headquarters management responsibilities for different operations is sound and
efficient. The current division of responsibilities between the maintenance and development divisions
appears appropriate. Work loads are allocated flexibly and distributed evenly, and no changes are
needed. Recently, more emphasis has already been placed on feeder road planning and selection, and
integrating feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance into trunk road and agricultural priorities. A
DFR organizational study which was conducted for the preparation of this project recommended the
creation of a separate planning division. Also, a maintenance performance budgeting system will be
developed under the project to ensure that every feeder road once it has been rehabilitated is followed
up by systematic maintenance. The management structure of the three-level regional organization
(regional, road area, and district offices) was considered adequate by the organizational study.
However, DFR needs to achieve staffing levels, especially in terms of engineering capacity, that will



- 10 -
enable it to design and supervise all of its labor-based works while it will continue to rely on
consultants for the design and supervision of all other contract works.
3.06         Regional Operation. At the regional level, DFR engineers serve as chief advisors to
the Regional Secretaries, and coordinate the distribution of resources among road area offices. A
regional engineer is backed by one additional road engineer, and five regions already have an
additional engineer to oversee labor-intensive operations, including Brong Ahafo, Ashanti, Western,
Eastern and Northern Regions. The regional engineer is also in charge of distributing the services of
the DFR-supported Mobile Repair and Maintenance (MOREMAT) units among the road area offices
in the region. MOREMAT units are force account operations which execute emergency repair and
heavy blading works. The programming of MOREMAT operations requires trained engineers as well1
as an equipment maintenance program. Most communities contribute to the operation of MOREMAT
units in the form of diesel for graders and trucks, and food and accommodation for equipment
operators.
3.07         Field Offices. Each road area office serves between 3 to 4 districts. At present, only
3 area offices are well established, and 7 are partially established. DFR endorses the need for a total
of 32 road area offices to coordinate work in the 110 districts, and to support GOG's decentralization
policy. Each area office will be in charge of an average of 650 kilometers of feeder roads. Each of
the already established area offices has one technician engineer who represents DFR at the district
level and is expected to become an advisor to the District Secretary and the District Assembly for
prioritizing and costing feeder road recurrent and routine maintenance activities. Once the
MOREMAT units are transferred from the regional to the area offices, each technician engineer will
require training to program the activities of MOREMAT in coordination with the regional engineer.
Only three office buildings out of the existing 10 area offices are considered adequate. Three area
offices have a vehicle each, and 7 others are expected to receive a vehicle each shortly. A foreman
has been assigned to each of 30 district offices to implement routine maintenance. Presently, DFR-
supported force account Spot Improvement and Maintenance (SIAM) units are partially operational in
35 to 40 districts only. Road committees have been established in some 36 districts. However, the
coordination of these road committees has proven difficult. Annex 34 describes the road committee
system while Annex 3-5 summarizes DFR's unsatisfactory experience with voluntary community
labor.
3.08         Institutional Strategy. The Bank, in coordination with other donors, needs to continue
its support of DFR as the focal point for feeder road policies and operations in Ghana. Interagency
coordination with the Ministries of Agriculture (MA) and Local Government (MLG), GHA, the
Environmental Protection Council (EPC) and district authorities will also be improved. Expansion of
DFR will emphasize a build-up of maintenance capacity. At the Head Office, a planning unit was
created two years ago and will be upgraded to a division as a condition of credit effectiveness. The
appointment of a deputy director of planning, not later than December 31, 1992 is a requirement for
this project. Some 20 new road area offices will be established, starting July 1, 1992, as maintenance
activities are expanded. These issues were agreed during negotiations.
3.09         All 110 districts require arrangements for routine maintenance. DFR capacity
expansion at that level will follow Government's decentralization objectives by expanding its technical
support to the districts and, starting from July 1, 1992, as needed train about 80 additional foremen
for the supervision of district feeder road maintenance activities. Ihis was agreed during
negotiations. Even though DFR has made impressive progress in training labor-based contractors and
its own staff, overall training capacity of DFR needs to be strengthened. Training is needed at all
levels, including technician engineers, equipment operators, foremen and labor-based contractors.



- 11 -
The provision of permanent facilities and staff at the training school at Koforidua will allow it to
perform this function. This school will be strengthened under the proposed project to become the
West-African equivalent of the East-African labor-based training school in Kisii, Kenya.
C.    District Routine Maintenance Organization
3.10         DFR has historically relied on unpaid community labor to accomplish feeder road
routine maintenance. It has supplied tools and technical supervision to volunteer laborers mobilized
by the multi-tiered road committee system. Technical supervision is provided by DFR foremen based
at the districts. Where it has proven difficult to mobilize sufficient and reliable voluntary labor, food
aid has sometimes been given to laborers. However, a fully implemented community routine
maintenance system exists in no more than ten percent of the districts and has generally failed to
provide sustained, timely routine maintenance. There are not enough foremen available and
communities in these districts are inconsistent in volunteering the required labor.
3.11         Community supported routine maintenance is, in theory, backed up by DFR force
account SIAM units based at the road area level. These units include mobile culvert gangs, backlog
routine maintenance teams and towed grader teams. However, SIAM units are in place in only
twelve of the thirty-two road areas and are often the primary providers of routine maintenance rather
than providing backup to community efforts. Recurrent maintenance will continue to be provided by
DFR force account MOREMAT units, with the support of towed grader teams from the SIAM units.
Graders for a nation-wide MOREMAT system have been procured, but staffing and training of grader
operators lags behind the available equipment. This will be rectified under the proposed project.
3.12         Apart from a number of problems described above, the intended routine and recurrent
maintenance system, with the exception of reliance on voluntary community labor, seems to be
reasonably well designed and attainable over the intermediate term (5 years). Progress in resolving
many of the identified problems is evident.
3.13         The most prominent gaps in the intended routine and recurrent maintenance system
have occurred at the district level. These gaps are the result of both a failure to effectively implement
the intended system in many districts, and failures of the system to perform successfully where
implemented. Therefore, the early stages of this project will include efforts to develop and test
alternative institutional arrangements for district-level organization and finance of routine
maintenance.
3.14         Because of the apparent variety in district circumstances and the lack of experience
with successful routine feeder road maintenance in Ghana, no single "blueprint" for the organization
of routine maintenance can be offered. Each district must be taken as somewhat unique until the
circumstances of the districts and the requirements of successful routine maintenance are better
known. When the circumstances and requirements are better known, it is unlikely that a single,
standard model of routine maintenance organization will be adequate.
3.15         Appropriate systems for the organization and financing of sustainable routine feeder
road maintenance will be developed as follows:
(a)    District Assemblies will be responsible for routine and recurrent feeder road
maintenance in accordance with the Government's expressed decentralization policy
and PNDC Law 207. This project will provide technical assistance to support DFR's



- 12 -
decentralization and the strengthening of routine maintenance planning, contracting,
supervision and financial management capacities of the involved districts;
(b)    Central Government will ensure financial sustainability of routine and recurrent
maintenance by granting sufficient funds in a timely manner to the 110 districts for a
four year period until end 1996, starting early 1993. Grants will cover 100 percent
of estimated costs of routine and recurrent maintenance. DFR has already prepared
detailed cost estimates comprising all maintainabl feeder roads in each of the 110
districts. Only after a thorough assessment of the resource mobilization potential in
each district would Central Government be able to decide to what extent individual
districts would be expected to contribute to future feeder road maintenance funding.
Until such time full routine and recurrent maintenance funding is expected to come
from Central Government budget resources;
(c)    Specific arrangements for the organization and eventual financing of sustained routine
maintenance have been identified as (i) combined rehabilitation and maintenance
contracts, (ii) single man contractors, (iii) labor-based contractors, and (iv) contracting
with intermediary groups. The relative effectiveness of each of these arrangements
will be evaluated in the first two and one-half years of the project in an experimental
program in up to eight "pilot' districts.
D.    Feeder Road Planning and Selection
3.16          Feeder Road Planning. The proportion of feeder road expenditures to total road
expenditures was around 17 percent in recent years. This compares favorably with other countries in
the region. However, there is no firm mechanism to split expenditures between rehabilitation and
maintenance for feeder roads, since planning so far has largely been limited to rehabilitation. In past
years, planning for feeder roads was limited to the preparation of annual work programs by DFR,
based on urgent requests from field offices and local communities. Planning capacity has been
bolstered as part of TRP-1 with the creation of a planning unit, which has focused initially on
developing planning methodologies and criteria for feeder road selection and economic analysis.
Selection and design methods for labor-based road works have also been introduced. Good
cooperation with the planning unit in the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) has been achieved.
3.17          Regional and District Planning. At the regional level, DFR has developed a
prioritization mechanism for road areas in close coordination with MA, and has agreed to focus future
investments in road areas with high to medium agricultural potential. Within each region, network
based planning is beginning to be coordinated with rehabilitation works in the trunk road network to
ensure linkage to feeder roads, coordination that until recently was only coincidental. At the district
level, DFR has developed and implemented a methodology to pre-select and evaluate teeder roads on
a corridor basis based on economic criteria. The methodology which consists of pre-selection and
final economic evaluation includes substantial local participation. Local constituencies are involved at
the pre-selection stage. DFR has started operationalizing this methodology in 16 road areas which
have been selected for this project. Annex 3& describes the road area prioritization and feeder road
pre-selection methodologies.
3.18          PlanninggStIa1g. DFR will adopt a multi-tiered planning and programming system
allowing the participation of local constituencies in the districts. The existing planning capacity,
limited for the most part to route selection, will evolve into a system that allocates resources for
feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance at the national, regional, road area and district levels.



- 13 -
DFR management will develop targets for an adequate split of resources between rehabilitation and
maintenance, ensuring linkage to trunk road rehabilitation and maintenance activities. Given the
present condition of the feeder road network, most expenditures are concentrated on rehabilitation.
However, in the future, DFR is expected to substantially increase allocations for maintenance.
Regional distribution of resources will continue to be linked to the priority areas set by the MTADS.
The prioritization of road areas will continue to be reviewed by the planning units in MA and DFR in
the context of national priorities. In the short term, DFR is expected to concentrate rehabilitation
investments in districts with high agricultural potential. In the long term, DFR's rehabilitation
activities will expand to cover other districts with medium agricultural potential.
3.19         Local planning requires involvement of local constituencies for the selection of feeder
roads and for increased accountability and community participation in routine maintenance activities.
The road selection process will formalize the methodology started with the preparation of this project,
including pre-selection and final economic evaluation. A maintenance performance budgeting system
to program maintenance activities will be developed and implemented as part of project activities. A
consolidated framework for network based planning and budgeting is needed so that maintenance
requirements are considered along with those of rehabilitation. Planning for feeder roads will evolve
into a system using these methods and criteria as well as involving key constituencies at the center
(GHA and MA), and at the regional and district levels (District Assemblies).
E.    D-esign and Technology Choices
3.20         Design Standard. In the past, the emphasis on the concept of "design speed" and
overly wide roadways resulted in unnecessarily high standards and excessive construction and
maintenance costs. Serviceability and durability are now receiving greater emphasis in design. The
former emphasizes all-weather access as against speed and riding comfort. DFR has already
established three feeder road standards with formation width of: (i) 5 m for Average Daily Traffic
(ADT) of 10 to 20; (ii) 6 m for ADT of 20 to 50; and (iii) 7 m for ADT of 50 to 100. Gravel layer
thickness ranging from 10 to 15 cm for sub-base and surface courses is considered sufficient for
feeder roads. The thickness variation from 10 to 15 centimeters will depend on subgrade materials,
traffic density and axle loads. Geometric design standards have also been specified for horizontal and
vertical aligments and maximum gradient, taking into account the need to minimize earthworks by
following as much as practical the existing alignments. Durability is being introduced as a design
concept during the training of domestic contractors, thus giving more attention to compaction and
road drainage requirements.
3.21         Choice of Work Methods. In the past, the use of capital-intensive methods for
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads has sometimes been plagued with frequent equipment
breakdowns, delays in procurement of equipment and spare parts, and foreign exchange constraints.
In response, GOG and DFR, with assistance from IDA and technical assistance from the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Labour Organization (ILO), have
successfully developed a labor-based contractor pool. After a pilot project and four subsequent
training courses, 47 contractors will be trained by the end of 1991 to conduct labor-based works with
a potential output in feeder road rehabilitation of some 1,000 to 1,200 km per year. These labor-
based works have proven technicallv and economically viable. In addition, there appears to be
sufficient labor available in most rural areas in Ghana.
3.22         The technology has key advantages such as: (i) costs are between 15% to 20% lower
than the capital-intensive method; (ii) about 10 times more employment is generated; (iii) foreign
exchange costs are reduced; (iv) multiplier effects help the rural economy; and (v) the community is



- 14 -
involved. A small contractor using appropriate low-cost equipment for labor-intensive works employs
between 150 and 200 workers daily and rehabilitates about 2 km of feeder road per month or 25 km
per year.
3.23         Annex 3-7 contains a detailed foreign exchange comparison between the capital-
intensive and labor-intensive work methods for a standardized km of feeder road. The analysis was
carried out on a work item basis, separately for the four principal feeder road operations DFR
undertakes: (i) rehabilitation; (ii) regravelling; (iii) spot improvement and reshaping; and (iv)
culverting. The key result of the analysis is that on average, the labor-based technology requires less
than 50 percent foreign exchange compared to the capital-intensive work method.
3.24         The continued development of private domestic contractors for road works of
acceptable quality requires further assistance to the industry which will be provided under this project.
Support and training is needed to increase the number of technically and financially viable domestic
contractors. In addition, the performance and sustainability of all types of domestic contractors need
to be monitored properly and regularly. Some labor-based contractors may lean towards more
equipment-intensive operations while capital-intensive contractors may start to compete for labor-
based works. Annex 3-8 contains a summary of the status of Ghana's domestic construction industry
including its performance problems.
3.25         Force Account versus Contract Qperations. DFR's objective is to continue executing
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works by contract. Routine maintenance operations on feeder
roads by force account are severely limited and are presently executed by SIAM units only.
Emergency repairs and heavy blading to restore basic access will be continued using the MOREMAT
units which are being expanded with the arrival of 70 new graders. Communities have been
encouraged to contribute labor to the SIAM units with mixed results. Mechanisms for involving
communities in feeder road routine maintenance need to be further strengthened, which will be done
under this project.
F.    Feeder Road Development Strategy
3.26         Past Physical Achievements. Between 1983 and 1990, some 2,700 km of feeder
roads were fully rehabilitated. DFR relied mainly on domestic contractors for these works. Some
1,413 culverts were constructed, reconstructed or extended; some 7,070 km of roads reshaped; and
some 2,310 km regravelled. While regravelling was mostly by contract, reshaping and culvert
construction were executed by force account (MOREMAT units). Substantial increases in feeder road
rehabilitation works have taken place over the last 2 to 3 years. An additional 900 km of feeder road
rehabilitation is ongoing and will be completed by the end of 1991. This will bring the total of fully
rehabilitated feeder roads, defined as the maintainable network, to 3,600 km by end-1991. Annex 3-2
gives details on DFR's road work accomplishments for the period 1983-1990.
3.27         Past Exnenditure. DFR's sources of funding for the period 1983-1990 are shown in
Annex 3-10. Domestic funding sources are the GOG Central Budget and the Road and Cocoa Funds.
Central Budget contributions reached on average Cedis 450 million per annum between 1983 and
1990 and were spent on recurrent (reshaping) and capital (rehabilitation, culverts, regravelling)
works. Road and Cocoa Fund contributions have increased rapidly and reached about Cedis 800
million and Cedis 2,500 million in 1990, respectively. Regular external financing for feeder roads
started in 1989 and is being provided by the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and IDA through its Program
of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment in Development (PAMSCAD), and its TRP-1



- 15 -
and CRP projects. While total support for feeder road works between 1983 and 1987 varied between
US$6.0 and 8.0 million annually (with the exception of 1985 when virtually no funds were available),
overall funding increased to US$15.0 million in 1988, decreased to US$13.0 million in 1989, and
reached US$19.0 million in 1990. The 1991 funding level (in terms of both domestic and external
resources) is estimated at US$20.0 million.
3.28         Propose Development Program. As noted in para. 2.15, DFR, with IDA assistance,
has developed a 7 year feeder road development program (mid-1992 to mid-1999). Details of the
proposed program are shown in Annex 3-11. Physical targets to be achieved between 1992 and 1999
are: (i) full rehabilitation of 8,400 km of high priority feeder roads at an average 1,200 km per
annum; (ii) regravelling of 8,850 km of fully rehabilitated high priority feeder roads; (iii) spot
improvement and culverting of 1,500 km of additional lower priority feeder roads; and (iv) keeping
the oc rehabilitated and spot improved feeder roads under permanent recurrent (blading) and routine
maintenance.
3.29         During the mid-1992 to mid-1996 period (implementation period of this project), a
total of 4,800 km of full feeder road rehabilitation will be financed by (i) PAMSCAD (250 km); (ii)
IDA, the African Development Fund (ADF), and the Cocoa Fund and GOG Capital Budget under the
ongoing Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (2,050 km); and (iii) IDA, USAID, the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC Fund),
and GOG Road Fund and Capital Budget under this feeder roads project (2,500 km). During the
same period DFR will also carry out under the feeder roads project: (i) regravelling of some 2,850
km of feeder roads which were flXly rehabilitated between 1983 and 1990 and need urgent periodic
maintenance, and (ii) spot improvement of some 720 km of lower priority roads. Under the feeder
roads development program, adequate recurrent and routine maintenance on all rehabilitated and spot
improved feeder roads u.ndr maintenanc (9,120 km by 1996) will be provided through Government
funds.
3.30         During the 1996 - 1999 period some additional 3,600 km of feeder roads will be fully
rehabilitated, bringing the high priority feeder road network under maintenance to a total of 12,000
km, which is considered as an adequate feeder road network for the country. Also, regravelling on
some 6,000 km of high priority feeder roads is intended, together with 780 km of spot improving and
culverting, and recurrent and routine maintenance on a total of 13,500 km on feeder roads by end-
1999.
3.31         Development Program Costing. To arrive at DFR's feeder road development and
follow-up maintenance funding requirements, a preliminary maintenance performance budgeting
system was developed during project appraisal. It was based on DFR and mission experience, and by
adapting GHA's maintenance management system to feeder roads. The total and annual funding
needs for civil works for the 1992-1999 NFRDP are shown in Annex 3-12. Total costs are estimated
at US$311.0 million with a foreign exchange component of US$127.0 million (41 percent). DFR will
need substantial external funding for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance; consultancy and
technical assistance services for engineering design and works supervision, and institutional
development; and funding provision for purchase of materials and equipment for routine and recurrent
maintenance.
3.32         The required funding level for recurrent and routine maintenance operations between
1993 and 1999 has been estimated at a total of US$31.5 million. While recurrent maintenance will
cost US$19.1 million, roui.:Le maintenance will amount to US$12.4 million. US$12.7 million will be
needed for both routine and recurrent maintenance for the 1993 to 1996 period, and US$18.8 million



- 16 -
for the 1997 to 1999 period. These cost estimates include 10% physical and 17% price
contingencies. DFR has prepared district maps showing maintainable feeder roads, thereby enabling
accurate annual estimates of required routine and recurrent maintenance funding needs pga istrict.
Routine and recurrent feeder road maintenance funds will have to be provided by Central Government
budget allocations and, increasingly in future years by contributions towards sustainable feeder road
maintenance from the districts' own financial resources. Road Fund resources are mainly used as
counterpart funding for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance operations.
3.33         Funding Stragy. Annex 3-13 contains an anticipated financing plan for the 1992-
1999 civil works program. The lUrgest financial uncertainty relates to the availability of sufficient
funds for recurrent and routine maintenance. DFR has until now expected to complement the GOG
budget for recurrent expenditures with voluntary contributions from the communities, with
unsatisfactory results, since voluntary contributions for recurrent and routine maintenance have been
very small in recent years. Sustainable financing sources for recurrent and routine maintenance have
to be secured from Central Government and from the individual districts and matched to the proposed
rehabilitation and regravelling (periodic maintenance) programs. The recent surge in external
financing for capital investments such as rehabilitation and periodic maintenance requires proper and
timely coordination among present and future donors. IDA will assist the Government in this effort.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Projact Objectives
4.01         The project is consistent with the IDA-supported MTADS and TRP projects and will
complement and reinforce the objectives of the ERP. The aim of the project is to assist Ghana's
economic recovery by:
(a)    providing improved feedez r 3ad access to transport agricultural produce and
agricultural inputs to and from farms or villages and nearby markets and thereby
increasing food and cash crop production;
(b)   improving mobility and economic opportunity for the rural poor; and
(c)   improving the institutional capacity of DFR to sustain the feeder road program over
time and to ensure the maintenance of the rehabilitated road network.
B.    Project Description
4.02         The main thrust of the 1992-99 national feeder roads development program is to
selectively improve and expand the feeder road network, and to improve maintenance management.
An initial four-year time slice has been identified, but may be amended from time to time to ensure
that all sub-projects meet agreed selection criteria. Proposed project components are:
(a)   full rehabilitation of 2,500 km of feeder roads in 16 selected road areas with high and
medium agricultural potential;



- 17 -
(h)   regravelling of 2,850 km of feeder roads which were rehabilitated since 1983 and are
now under maintenance;
(c)    construction of up to 5,000 culverts including spot improvements on some 720 km of
selected feeder roads to provide minimum access;
(d)   road maintenance and workshop equipment and tools and spare parts;
(e)    consultant services for engineering design and contract supervision for (a), (b) and (c)
above and for an organization and management study; a maintenance performance
budgeting system development; and a socio-economic impact study;
(f)   technical assistance to support DFR in contract management, road planning, road
maintenance and equipment maintenance/repair operations;
(g)    overseas training for DFR staff and support for the Koforidua labor-based training
school;
(h)   support to the local contracting industry including assessment of industry
performance; provision of training, and light equipment for labor-based contractors;
(i)   rural mobility and environmental improvements and assistance to NGOs and women;
and
(3)    DFR decentralization support to develop and test a district-based routine maintenance
system on feeder roads involving local communities.
4.03         Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads (2,500 kwm. The project will cover the first four year
phase (mid-1992 to mid-1996) of the 7 year NFRDP (mid-1992 to mid-1999) and will provide funds
for full rehabilitation of 2,500 km of feeder roads, mainly in the 16 selected high and medium
agricultural potential road areas (see map). The rehabilitation works will be carried out using capital-
intensive contractors for 1,500 km through IDA, OPEC and COG funding, and labor-intensive
contractors for 1,000 km through USAID and DANIDA financing, applying ICB and LCB
procurement procedures. Out of the 2,500 km of feeder roads, 560 km were selected earlier and are
being designed under TRP-1 funding. Selection of these roads took place prior to the adoption of the
selection criteria; therefore, some of the road links fall outside the 16 selected high priority road
areas. Since all roads proposed for full rehabilitation under the project have ERRs above 10% 2/,
those outside the priority road areas are packaged as the phase-i roads of the project. The selection
of additional 1,140 km, constituting phase-2 feeder roads, has been completed and engineering design
has started under PPF and a Japanese grant and is expected to be completed in the first quarter of
1992. Feeder road selection for the remaining 800 km (phase-3 roads) is presently underway. The
Bank will review and approve the engineering designs of the feeder roads.
2/ Investments with ERRs estimated as low as 10% based on quantifiable benefits have been
included in the project since large, unquantifiable benefits are typically associated with feeder
road development and are likely to raise estimated ERRs substantially.



- 18 -
4.04         Feeder roads in high rainfall areas such as the Western Region exhibit very fast rates
of deterioration making frequent and costly rehabilitation and heavy maintenance a necessity. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the tarring of selected feeder roads in high rainfall areas on a
pilot basis, provided the roads selected are economically viable. This will enable comparison of
performance, durability and maintenance needs of bitumen-surfaced feeder roads with the traditional
gravel-surfaced feeder roads. The project contains sufficient funds for tarring some feeder roads on
an experimental basis.
4.05        hRegr  ling of Feeder Roads Rehabilitated since 1983 (2,85k. A total of 2,700
km of feeder roads has been rehabilitated between 1983 and the end of 1990. This total will increase
to 3,600 km by the end of 1991 when on-going rehabilitation works are completed. Rehabilitated
feeder roads require regravelling on average every 6 years. In the past, regravelling requirements
were not fully met due to deficient maintenance management and financial constraints. As the
network of rehabilitated feeder roads expands, the backlog of regravelling needs will increase, leading
to more deterioration of rehabilitated roads. Th brefore, an expansion in rehabilitation can be justified
only if the follow-up regravelling requirements can be met.
4.06         To reverse the present trend, the project will provide funds from IDA, OPEC,
USAID, DANIDA and GOG for regravelling of about 2,850 km of feeder roads during the 1992-96
project implementation period. All regravelling works will be carried out through ICB and LCB
contracts. The project will also provide funds from IDA for routine road maintenance equipment,
while GOG will provide funds for the execution of routine and recurrent maintenance from its budget.
Routine maintenance activities such as grass cutting, ditch and culvert cleaning will mostly be carried
out using single man contractors (SMC) for 3 to 5 km road stretches (length-man system of
contracting).
4.07         Culverting ana Spot Improvement. The 7 year NFRDP aims at rehabilitating some
8,400 km of priority feeder roads out of the total 21,300 km of feeder roads in Ghana. This would
normally imply that low priority areas could not be considered for full rehabilitation of feeder roads.
However, to enable increased agricultural production in these areas as early as possible, it was
decided to provide interim low standard roads by carrying out culverting and spot improvement works
at minimum cost for roads which could not be covered under the 7 years program. The feeder roads
for culverting and spot improvement will be selected according to criteria to be agreed by DFR,
USAID and IDA. The types of work to be done will be limited to providing minimum access so that
agricultural produce can be transported to markets at reasonable cost. Up to 5,000 culverts with spot
improvements on some 720 km will be financed by USAID.
4.08         Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment. Tools and Spare Parts. DFR will
continue to carry out by force account (MOREMAT units) most of the pothole filiing, spot patching
and recurrent blading operations. DFR will soon have enough motor graders and operators to carry
out recurrent maintenance works on a larger scale. The MOREMAT units are making valuable
contributions to feeder road improvements and are considered the most efficient way to execute
recurrent maintenance. DFR needs limited additional equipment such as tippers for long distance
haulage and farm tractor-trailer units for short distance haulage of gravel; 4-wheel drive vehicles and
motor cycles for field supervisory staff; workshop and training equipment; road maintenance and
workshop tools; spare parts for both existing and new equipment, and mobile radios and office
equipment. These items will be financed by IDA. The list of equipment and vehicles to be financed
under the project has been developed by DFR and agreed by IDA. Annex 4-1 contains a description
of DFR's equipment status.



- 19 -
4.09         CQnS       e s The project will provide funds through IDA and a Japanese
grant for engineering design (200 m/m) and supervision of contracts (230 m/m) for all rehabilitation
and maintenance works. For design work, international firms have been encouraged to form joint
ventures with local and foreign firms. A contract management specialist (56 m/m) will support DFR
in project procurement and implementation through IDA financing. During negotiations, it was
agrcA that appointment of the contract management specialist will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. DFR's institutional capacity will also be strengthened through (i) execution of an
organization and management study under Japanese grant funding (18 m/m) (AnnexA , and (ii)
development of a maintenance performance budgeting system though DANIDA financing (30 m/m)
(Anne    . For the lattr, the project will finance consultant services for systc.m development,
system testing in pilot road areas, countrywide implementation of the system, and for training DFR
staff in system application. Funds will also be provided for a socio-economic impact study (27 m/m)
through IDA funding which will monitor and evaluate the impact of rehabilitated feeder roads on
agricultural growth and rural mobility (Annex 4-4J.
4.10         During negotiations, it was agreed that project support through the existing
management unit within MRH will be provided, specifically through two qualified accountants to
assist DFR in carrying out all financial aspects of project implementation. It was also areed, that
appointment of these two accountants will be a condition of credit effectiveness, Project support by
MRH will be financed by IDA. The management unit within MRH exists since 1985 and presently
consists of a projects manager cum procurement specialist, a financial manager, other accounting and
support staff and a number of counterparts. The unit is being financed under the ongoing TRP-2.
4.11         Technical Assistance to DFR. Over the past three years, DFR's annual work load has
expanded, placing a heavy burden on its institutional capacity. This burden will continue over the 4
year period of the project. Annex 4-5 contains recommendations for DFR's organization. Annex 44
describes DFR staffing requirements. Institutional development requires time, hence the project will
help to bridge the shortfall in institutional capacity by providing technical assistance through
DANIDA funding in the areas of (i) mechanical engineering (2x24 m/m); (ii) feeder road planning
(24 m/m); (iii) feeder road maintenance (24 m/m); and (iv) computer systems analysis (24 m/m).
This technical assistance will be supplemented by United Nations Volunteers (UNV) (5x24 rn/m) who
will support DFR's organization as field civil engineers.
4.12         Training for DFR and Local Contractors. Training for DFR and capital-intensive
contractors will be provided at GHA's Central Training Center (CTC), its Road Training and
Production Unit (RTPU) and its Mechanical Training and Production Unit (MTPU). These units are
being expanded and staffed under TRP-2. Annual training programs are being developed by CTC
which will integrate training requirements of GHA, DFR, DUR and local capital-intensive road
contractors. Coordination of the CTC training program among the road agencies has already started.
Training for labor-intensive contractors will continue and be intensified at DFR's Koforidua training
school which is already established and achieving excellent results. To strengthen the training effort,
the project will fund the construction of a new school building and dormitory, training equipment and
aids (through USAID) and an ILO labor-based training specialist (30 m/m) (through IDA funding).
4.13         As part of the institutioDal development, it is important to expose DFR's engineers,
economists and high level technicians to modern technology, planning and programming, execution of
road works, contract supervision and quality control. Based on the good results achieved under
GHA's overseas training program, the project will fund (through USAID) up to US$0.76 million in
overseas training for selected DFR staff comprising participation in seminars, short academic and
practical courses, and graduate degree courses (Annex 4). Under the technical assistance services



- 20 -
to be financed under the project, mainly through DANIDA, DFR staff will also receive
comprehensive on-the-job training. DANIDA has ensured that TOR for the required technical
services wIll fully address the training part of the assignments.
4.14         Local Construction Industry Support. About 40 domestic contractors, who are
presently executing the major portion of GHA's regravelling and resealing works under the ongoing
TRP-1 and TRP-2, were provided funds during 1985-88 for purchase of equipment and spare parts
under an on-lending arrangement though BHC under the Bank financed RRMP (Fourth Highway
Project). Contractor performance is still being adversely affected because of lack of management
skills; the inability to employ experienced field and office staff; and deficient field work planning and
programming. To address these problems, the project will fund a construction industry assessment
and development study under Japanese grant funding (18 in/m) (Annex 4-8) to assess the constraints
on the industry, and to recommend measures to be taken by GOG and the donors to improve
contractor performance. Given the size and urgency of domestic contracting problems this study will
be executed during the first project year. To guarantee follow-up to the study, the project mid-term
review will decide on actions based on study recommendations which would be taken during the
second part of the project and the proposed second feeder roads project.
4.15         DFR, assisted by IDA, UNDP and ILO, has trained and equipped 25 labor-based
contractors. Each of these 25 contractors is able to rehabilitate 25 km of feeder road per year. This
effort by DFR has supported the implementation plan set out for the project. DFR is presently
training an additional 22 labor-based contractors and upon completion of the training, the contractors
will need financial support for light labor-based equipment. The project will fund this equipment
through USAID and DANIDA for the labor-based contractors on terms and conditions to be
recommended by the domestic contracting industry study up to a total of US$4.2 million. The cost to
equip one labor-based contractor s estimated at US$180,000.
4.16         Rural Mobility and Environment. The project will target poverty alleviation in rural
areas through the provision of seed money to NGOs and cooperatives, to be used for starting hire-
purchase schemes for non-motor 'vehicles. This will reduce headloading and increase rural
productivity and income. The in,tial funding will provide a revolving fund through DANIDA
financing for NGOs and cooperatives. Details of the operation of the revolving fund will be
developed by DANIDA and DFR be' "re DANIDA funds will become effective. These hire-purchase
programs which are to be modelled ( a program currently run by the Amasachina NGO in Tamale
and another NGO initiated by MLG will provide a long-term revolving fund for bringing more
intermediate means of transport (IMIT) vehicles into the rural transport system. The initial proposal is
to supply some 40 sets of cycles, trailers and farm vehicles, in two tranches to each of 100 NGOs and
cooperatives in Brong-Ahafo, Volta and Northern Regions at a cost of US$1.8 million.
4.17         Another poverty component will be the planting of fruit trees alongside selected feeder
roads (some 600 kIm) by NGOs and funded by USAID and DANIDA. Planting will be back of the
ditch and not in the road side. NGOs will, on a contract-basis, do both the initial planting and its
after-care (about US$2.0 per seedling includ;ug its after-planting care). This will improve the
environment and provide income from fruits and regular harvest of firewood. The project will rIso
finance (through DANIDA) promotional campaigns for (i) an increased participation of women in
feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance, so as to enhance income-earning opportunities for women;
and (ii) raising environmental awareness in feeder road maintenance such as erosion control and
prevention, ultimately leading to environmental improvements. Cooperation with NGOs and
cooperatives will be needed to implement these campaigns. Details of the rural mobility and
environmental measures are given in Annex 4-2.



- 21 -
4.18          DFR Decentralization Suport. A DFR decentralization support component funded by
IDA is intended to provide assistance for analysis, experimentation and implementation concerning (i)
the decentralization of DFR; (ii) the development of apprGpriate administrative and financial capacities
in the district governments; and (iii) the negotiation of appropriate relationships between DFR and the
district governments. Specific activities of this component will include:
(a)    Execution of short studies of actual and potential institutional arrangements for routine
feeder road maintenance in up to eight pilot districts during the first W2 years of the
project. These studies will examine the incentives needed for individuals and
communities, under varying institutional arrangements, to (i) maintain feeder roads
and (ii) contribute funding for routine maintenance of feeder roads;
(b)    Monitoring of the flow of routine maintenance funds to and from districts and
producers of road maintenance in order to insure that road maintenance funds are used
for the intended purpose;
(c)   Improvement of district maintenance planning for feeder roads;
(d)    Improvement of district financial management and accounting capabilities;
(e)    Facilitation of development and implementation of mutually supportive project
planning and control processes in DFR and participating districts;
(f0    Assistance to districts with identification and negotiation of sustainable institutional
arrangements for feeder road routine maintenance; and
(g)    Monitoring and evaluation of alternative institutional arrangements for routine feeder
road maintenance.
4.19          The DFR decentralization support component will comprise 144 n/ni of local
expertise and 12 m/m of foreign technical assistance. The latter will be filled on an intermittent
consulting basis. The major task of the decentralization support team will be to assist the project in
designing and conducting the program of research, experimentation and analysis of institutional
arrangements for routine feeder road maintenance in up to eight pilot districts which will be selected
immediately following project effectiveness. The foreign consultant will assist in the analysis of the
results of the various studies and experiments as appropriate. The consultant will also be called upon
to assist with the identification and design of appropriate administrative and financial training
curricula for those involved in the routine maintenance process.
4.20          As part of the project mid-term review scheduled for end-1994, an in-depth review
and assessment of the results which would be achieved during the first two project years will be
undertaken regarding the proposed organization and finance scheme outlined in para. 4.18 (a) to (g)
above. Revision or redesign of the proposed systems might become necessary at that time.
Annex 4-1 describes alternative institutional arrangements for district-based routine maintenance on
feeder roads while Annex 4-11 summarizes an assessment of the district resource mobilization
potential.



-22
C.    Protect Cost and Financing
4.21         The estimated total c st of the project amounts to US$106.0 million (including taxes,
physical and price contingencies) with a foreign exchange component of US$50.3 million equivalent
or 47 percent of total project cost. Import duties and taxes on the project related imports are
estimated at US$6.7 million equivalent. Costs have been estimated at mid-1991 prices, and at an
exchange rate of US$l = 375 cedis. Costs include physical contingencies tailored to each project
component, averaging 10% of base cost. Price contingencies have been derived from the following
assumed rates of price increase: foreign prices 2.5% in the second half of 1991, 1.8% in 1992, 1.9%
in 1993, 3.8% in 1994, 4.9% in 1995 and 4.2% in 1996; local prices 10.0% in the second half of
1991, 8% in 1992 and 5% per annum in 1993-1996. The exchange rate is expected to be adjusted to
reflect differences between the international and domestic rates of inflation.
4.22         Cost estimates for feeder road rehabilitation works are based on recent LCB and ICB
contracts, and on average amount to US$10,000 per km for labor-intensive LCB; US$18,000 per km
for capital-intensive LCB and US$23,000 per km for ICB contracts, depending mainly on the amount
of earthworks involved. The cost of regravelling is estimated at US$7,500 per km based on recent
GHA contracts and adjusted for differences in design standards between trunk and feeder roads. For
equipment, tools and spare parts mid-1991 prices were estimated from 1990 purchasing cost.
4.23         Project cost and financing plan are summarized in the table below with details in
Annexes 4-12 and 4-13, respectively.
Summary Project Cost and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
TOTAL  IDA   GOG USMD DANIDA  OPEC JAPAN
COST
A. Feeder Road Program
1.  Feeder Road Rehabilitation  51.4  31.6   5.2   6.0    6.2   2.5
2.  Feeder Road Regravelling    26.0  13.9   2.4   4.7    2.4   2.5
3.  Culverts/Spot Improvements   6.2     -      -   6.1       -      -
4. Maintenance & Workshop Equip.,
Tools & Spares               4.7  4.5   0.2               -             -
5.  Design and Supervision             1      Q.I                -        1.0
Subtotal Feeder Road Program   91.2       L2 1 6.8   LN    5.0 1.
B. Institutional SuXort Program
1.  Management Line Positions    1.3  1.3              -          -     -
2   Technical Line Positions     1.8     -      -      -    1.8
3   United Nations Volunteers    0.2  0.2                         -         -
4.  Studies                      0.9  0.1       -      -    0.5      -   0.3
5.  Training                     1.5     -      -   1.5       -      -      -
6.  Construction Industry Support   5.1  -   0.3   2.5    2.0        -   0.3
7.  Rural Mobility and Environment 2.4   -   0.1   0.2    2.1               -
8.  DFR Decentralization Support  LA    -J    0 1             -     _     _
Subtotal Inst. Support Program   14 8           4.2    6.4           0
Total Project Cost                55.0    L4             15 0          6Q i6
Note: Figures Rounded



- 23 -
4.24  IDA will finance US$55.0 million equivalent, or about 55% of total project cost (excluding
duties and taxes). During negotiations, agreement was reached that Government will ensure sufficient
annual budgetary allocations for its counterpart contribution from the road fund and its budget to the
costs of the project, the said contribution being estimated by the Borrower and the Association to
amount, in the aggregate, over the project period to US$8.4 million equivalent (8% of total project-
related cost). It was also agreed that the Borrower will furnish, through DFR, to the Association for
its review, thra months prior to the start of the respective period, the annual and quarterly estimates
of project expenditures, including the required counterpart funding by the Borrower. In addition, ia
was agreed that the Government will deposit into DFR's account before the end of each quarter,
starting in fiscal year 1993, the Borrower's contributions to the financing of the project as set forth in
the quarterly estimates referred to above. Agreement was also reached that, as a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Borrower will deposit into DFR's account in Cedis the equivalent of US$300,000 as
its counterpart contribution to the financing of the project for fiscal year 1992.
4.25         Cofinancing agencies will cover US$42.6 million equivalent or 40% of total project
cost. USAID and DANIDA will finance US$21.0 million and US$15.0 million, respectively, under
parallel financing arrangements. The OPEC Fund has assured the Bank that it will contribute US$5.0
million under joint financing. A Japanese Grant Fund amounting to US$1.6 million has been made
available to finance engineering design and other urgent technical studies. The Bank will administer
this grant. Cofinavcing negotiations are at an advanced stage and are expected to be completed at the
time of credit effectiveness. USAID participated in the appraisal mission. DANIDA will carry out
appraisal of its project components in November 1991. Project components were packaged during
appraisal based on discussions with DFR, USAID and DANIDA (through Danish Embassy staff), and
allocations of funds to project components were agreed. OPEC funds will be used for feeder road
rehabilitation and regravelling works only.
4.26         In addition, GOG is expected to contribute US$12.7 million equivalent over four
years (1993 to 1996) from budget allocations for financing of feeder road routine and recurrent
maintenance activities in the 110 districts. These expenditures are not part of DrQject-re1atgd cost but
form part of the 7 year feeder road development program. Recurrent and routine maintenance funds
increase the Government contributions under the project to 18%. During negotiations, asuranc
from the Government was obtained that sufficient annual budgetary allocations will be made for the
recurrent and routine maintenance of feeder roads in its budget in line with the agreed upon funding
schedule for the 1993-1996 period, namely the equivalent of US$1.87 million in fiscal year 1993, the
equivalent of US$2.75 million in fiscal year 1994, the equivalent of US$3.61 million in fiscal year
1995 and the equivalent of US$4.48 million in fiscal year 1996.
4.27         DFR will be provided with the necessary funds at the beginning of each quarter.
During negotiations, Government agreement on the following detailed GOG funding schedule for
routine and recurrent feeder road maintenance was obtained:



- 24 -
Period                    Year 1:       Year 2:      Year 3:      Year 4:
Activity                          CY 1993      CY 1994      CY 1995       CY 1996
Rout. Maintenance Funds per Year   US$0.84m    US$1.15m     US$1.45m     US$1.76m
Rout. Maintenance Funds per Quarter US$0.21m  US$0.29m      US$0.36m     US$0.44m
Rec. Maintenance Funds per Year    US$1.03m   US$1.60m      US$2.16m     US$2.72m
Rec. Maintenance Funds per Quarter  US$0.26m  US$0.40m      US$0.54m     US$0.68m
Total Maintenance Funds per Year   US$1.87m   US$2.75m      US$3.61m     US$4.48m
Total Maintenance Funds per Quarter US$0.47m  US$0.69m      US$0.90m     US$1.12m
4.28         The focus of the maintenance program will be on routine maintenance operations such
as grass/bush cutting, ditch and culvert cleaning, and pothole/spot patching on maintainable feeder
roads. These activities require less funds than recurrent maintenance activities (about 70 percent).
Recurren. maintenance consists of (i) blading by contract of maintainable feeder roads, and (ii) heavy
reshaping by force account of lower priority feeder roads to obtain basic access. These latter roads
are not under regular maintenance and are not part of the maintainable network. In the event of local
maintenance funding constraints, shortfalls should only effect recurrent maintenance and specifically
reshaping by force account. If necessary, these operations could be suspended, delayed or reduced
without negatively affecting essential routine maintenance of maintainable feeder roads. Routine
maintenance funding requirements for the 1993-1996 period come to US$5.2 million equivalent only.
4.29         Road fund transfers to DFR have increased substantially in recent years and will reach
about US$3.5 million equivalent in 1991. This wouid yield some US$15.8 million equivalent for the
mid-1992 to end-1996 project period if the 1991 funding level were kept constant. However, this
funding level is likely to be increased. Central budget transfers to DFR reached on average US$1.4
million equivalent in recent years and would yield US$6.3 million for the project period if these
funding levels were kept constant. The estimated total of US$22.1 million equivalent from the road
fund and central budget for the mid-1992 to end-1996 period compares favorably with project and
program counterpart funding needs of US$21.1 million equivalent for the same period. Lower
Government transfers to DFR in the past reflected more the lack of proper maintenance planning and
budgeting on behalf of DFR, rather than the ability of Government to provide sufficient funds for
feeder road maintenance.
D.    Proet Design and Implementation
4.30         A thorough assessment of past and ongoing road projects in Ghana was conducted and
has resulted in the identification of a number of key lessons leari. These were subsequently used as
important linkages for the design of this operation. Previous road projects tended to be primarily
'rehabilitation-driven", without paying enough attention to systematic maintenance organization,
funding and capacity building. This operation has been designed as a "maintenance-driven" project
which concentrates on: (i) the development of a maintenance culture in Ghana's feeder roads sub-
sector, and (ii) the linkage of execution of road works with the establishment of a sustainable feeder
road maintenance management system.
4.31         The approach taken links maintenance planning, design, programming, budgeting and
works supervision with: (i) an institutional capacity building program, and (ii) appropriate
mechanisms of works execution relying nearly exclusively on private contractors, and comprising full
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance (regravelling), recurrent maintenance (blading), spot improvement



- 25 -
and culverting, and routine maintenance in an integrated analysis framework. Other principal lessons
learnt from previous operations indicate the need for: (i) detailed scheduling of procurement
processing and project implementation; (ii) frequent project supervision and annual implementation
reviews; (iii) definition and usage of monitorable targets in assessing project progress; (iv) mid-term
review to adjust project design; (v) time-bound action program for institutional strengthening of the
implementing road agency; and (vi) reliance on an adequat mix of capital-intensive and labor-based
private contractors for works execution.
4.32         Procuremcnt and Proiect Implementation Schedule. A detailed schedule for
procurement processing and project implementation including start and completion of engineering
design and supervision of works, award of contracts for civil works and goods under ICB and LCB,
and technical assistance, studies and DFR staff and contractor training was prepared and agreed
during project appraisal. This schedule has been computerized at DFR to serve as a project
monitoring instrument which will measure project progress to assist DFR and Bank supervision
missions. It will be updated regularly to keep up with project events and has already been refined
twice since project appraisal. Given the level of detail and size of this schedule, it has been placed in
the project file. Annex 4-14 contains a summary of the schedule.
4.33         The project is scheduled for completion by the end of 1996. This is considered
feasible since Ghana's road agencies have demonstrated in the recent past good capacity to undertake
timely road project implementation. DFR has already developed appropriate know-how in processing
procurement following Bank procurement guidelines under the RRMP and TRP-1, and the road
component of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project. Given this experience, the processing of contracts is
expected to be handled on a timely basis. Also project preparation is in an advanced stage.
Implementation of USAID financed feeder road works is scheduled to start in December 1991.
During negotiations, it was aereed that retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million equivalent will be
allowed under the IDA credit, on account of eligible payments made after January 1, 1992. It is
expected that selected feeder road rehabilitation and regravelling works following LCB procurement
procedures will be awarded not later than early January 1992.
4.34         Frequent Implementation Reviews. Annex 4-15 shows the project supervision plan
which covers the period from June 1992 to February 1997. Three supervision missions per year have
been scheduled, i.e. in February, June, and October. Annual implementation reviews were agreed
among IDA, USAID, DANIDA and DFR at the time of project appraisal. These reviews will take
the form of extensive supervision missions (scheduled for June of each project year) to ensure that the
principal financing agencies and DFR: (i) properly coordinate all project-related activities; (ii)
exchange views on all project issues of common concern and/or interest; and (iii) resolve outstanding
problems which hamper project implementation. The first such mission, with USAID and DANIDA
participation is scheduled for June 1992 and will take the form of a project launch workshop.
4.35         The annual implementation reviews will also evaluate the adequacy of routine and
recurrent maintenance funding through Goverment sources as agreed during negotiations (paras. 4.26
and 4.27). These maintenance funding and expenditure reviews will be linked to (i) the agreed
preparation of annual estimates of project expenditures by DFR (para. 4.24), and (ii) the timing of
Government budget preparation. Central Government's budget is prepared during the period from
October to December which is well after the annual project implementation reviews scheduled for
June/July. Given that this project is the first free-standing IDA operation for DFR, it is considered to
be supervision-intensive. Adherence to the proposed supervision plan will therefore be a strict
requirement for smooth project implementation and timely disbursements of project funds.



- 26 -
4.36         Monitorable Tar. Annex 41  contains a monitoring matrix against which
implementation performance of the project will be monitored. A set of performance indicators and
monitorable targets was derived from the detailed schedule of procurement processing and project
implementation and UFS&d during negotiations. For monitoring purposes the project was divided into
8 components: (i) physical works in 3 phases for rehabilitation; 4 phases for regravelling; and spot
improvement/culverting; (ii) studies; (iii) implementation of study recommendations; (iv) institutional
support; (v) staffing; (vi) training; (vii) budgeting and expenditures; and (viii) disbursement of IDA
proceeds. The monitoring matrix has been desigined such that DFR and Bank supervision missions
will use it as an additional tool for project management. Achievements will be evaluated for year 1
and 2 of the project by June 1993 and 1994, respectively, coinciding with the annual project
implementation reviews. The project mid-term review at the end of 1994 will define monitorable
targets for the remainder of the project (1995-1996). Adherence to legal covenants will be verified
independently of the deadlines given in the monitoring matrix.
4.37         Project Mid-Term Review. During negotiations, it was apreed that a thorough mid-
term project implementation review involving IDA, USAID, DANIDA, OPEC and various
Government agencies (MRH, MA, MLG, MFEP, EPC, DFR) will be carried out not later than
December 31, 1994. This review will evaluate and assess: (i) overall progress made in project
implementation during the first two project years; (ii) performance of DFR as executing agency for
the project; (iii) the adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding as well as the level of budgetary
allocations and actual expenditures for routine and recurrent maintenance ; and (iv) the need for
redesign and/or restructuring of project components with implementation difficulties, including as
necessary drafting of an action plan to be carried out until project completion. In addition, the mid-
term review will: (i) assess the results and recommendations of completed studies, ongoing technical
assistance and training programs; and (ii) agree with the borrower on implementation of findings.
This review would relate specifically to: (i) the organization and maintenance study; (ii) the
maintenance performance budgeting system development; (iii) the domestic contractor assessment and
development study; (iv) the institutional arrangements for district-based routine feeder road
mnaintenance; (v) DFR staff and domestic contractor training programs; (vi) progress of the rural
mobility and environmental component; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation studies of feeder road
impacts on agriculture and the rural economy.
4.38         Action Program for Institutional Strengthening. A detailed time-bound action
program for the institutional strengthening of DFR has been formulated and is shown in Annex 4-17.
DFR will be the primary implementing agency for all components of the project, with the exception
of the rural mobility and environmental component which will be implemented by selected NGOs and
cooperatives through bilateral funding. All civil works, supply of goods, and consulting services
under the project will be implemented by DFR. It will be assisted by (i) one specialist in a line
position for contract management; procurement; and compilation of data and preparation of project
completion report (PCR), and (ii) the existing management unit in MRH through two qualified
accountants in cost accounting; disbursement; and preparation of quarterly and annual progress
reports. The contract management cum procurement specialist has already been selected and will start
his assignment in April 1992. Selection of the two accountants, to be located in MRH is underway.
4.39         DFR will also be supported by five specialists in technical line positions to be engaged
in the fields of feeder road planning and programming, maintenance management, operation of
mechanical workshops, systems analysis and training. These technical assistance specialists will be
financed by DANIDA. Terms of reference for these positions have been prepared by DFR and will
be reviewed and agreed during DANIDA's appraisal of its project components in November 1991.
IDA will also review and agree upon these TOR to ensure full compatibility with technical assistance



- 27 -
components financed by other cofinanciers. On the road area and district levels, DFR will be assisted
by jiyv civil engineers from the UNV service. All engineering design and contract supervision
services will be carried out by local and international consultants financed under the project.
4.40         Mix of Capital-Intensive and Labor-Based Private Contractors. The feeder road
rehabilitation works will be executed using (i) international and the largest domestic contractors for
feeder roads packaged into large contracts following Bank ICB procurement rules; (ii) smaller
domestic capital-intensive contractors for individual short length feeder roads which cannot be
packaged into large contracts due to their geographical distribution following LCB procurement rules;
and (iii) labor-based contractors which have been trained by DFR for rehabilitation of annual 25 km
long feeder road sections where road side material is suitable for formation level construction and
surfacing material is available within a 5 km hauling distance, also following LCB procurement rules.
Regravelling works will be packaged to the extent possible in large lots, suitable for ICB while short
length road links which are geographically scattered will be packaged for LCB. Routine maintenance
such as ditch and culvert cleaning and grass/bush cutting will be done by contract mainly using SMCs
which have been successfully introduced by GHA on a large part of the trunk road network. DFR
will continue to carry out recurrent maintenance activities such as pothole/spot patching and heavy
blading works with its MOREMAT units. Equipment needs for the force account operation will be
supported under the project and financed by IDA.
E.    Status of Project Preparation
4.41         Preparation of physical works components is in an advanced stage as follows:
(a)    Selection of Feeder Roads:
(i)    Some 560 km of feeder roads have been selected. These will constitute phase-
1 of the physical works program of the project (see map).
(ii)   Phase-2 feeder road selection, under PPF funding, of 1,140 km in 8 priority
road areas has been completed (see map).
(iii)   Selection of the remaining 800 km (phase-3) in 8 additional priority road areas
is presently underway. This work is expected to be completed by December
1991.
(iv)   Selection of 50% of 2,850 km of feeder roads for regravelling, constituting
the regravelling program for the first two project years, will be completed by
DFR before Board presentation. The second batch will be selected during the
second year of the project.
(b)    Engineering Design and Preparation of Bidding Documents:
(i)    Preliminary engineering designs for the 560 km of phase-I feeder roads were
reviewed by the appraisal mission and final design is now underway. This
work is expected to be completed in December 1991.
(ii)   TOR, LOI, draft contract agreements and shortlists of consultants for
engineering design of the 1,140 km of phase-2 feeder roads have been cleared
by the Bank. Proposals from shortlisted consultants have been invited and



- 28 -
engineering design consultants are scheduled to start work in December 1991.
They will also prepare bidding and contractor pre-qualification documents.
Engineering designs will be completed by mid-1992.
(iii)   Engineering design for the remaining 800 km of phase-3 feeder roads is
scheduled to start by April 1992 for completion within 8 months.
(iv)   Engineering design for the 1992/93 regravelling works will be done by
consultants to be selected before then end of 1991. The Bank has cleared
TOR, LOI, and draft contract agreements.
F.    Procurement
4.42         Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows. Annex 4-18 contains a
detailed procurement table.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(IDA shares in parentheses)
(US$ million)
Parallel
Ea1  Component          ICB         LCB   Other   Shopping Financing         Total
1.    Civil Works         44.29      13.80                    25.74          83.83
(38.53)    (6.97)                                (45.50)
2.    Equipment, Spare     4.21                      0.51      4.19           8.91
Parts, Vehicles &    (3.97)                   (0.48)                  (4.45)
Materials
3.    Technical Assistance                  2.24               2.70           4.94
and Studies                          (1.60)                            (1.60)
4.    Engineering, Training                 4.57               3.77          8.34
& Other Support                      (3.45)                            (3.45)
Total Project       48.50      13.80  6.81     0.51     36.40        106.02
IDA                 (42.50)    (,.  (5.7                              (55.Q0)
4.43   Bank financed feeder road rehabilitation and regravelling works will be packaged in lots for
ICB contracts. They will provide opportunity for domestic contractors to participate in individual lots
while large international contractors can bid for combinations of lots for which they are prequalified.
Eligible domestic contractors who bid for works contracts under ICB will receive a 7'h percent
preference in bid evaluation. Short lengths of feeder road rehabilitation and regravelling works which
sre dispersed in remote locations (see map) and which are difficult to package for ICB will be
procured by LCB acceptable to the Bank. The engineering design consultants will package feeder
roads into ICB and LCB contracts, and the Bank will review the packaging. LCB contracts will range
in size around US$0.6 million. The aggregate value of LCB contracts will be US$14.0 million of
which IDA will fund up to US$7.0 million. Maintenance equipment, non-proprietary spare parts,



- 29 -
vehicles and tools estimated to cost US$4.2 million will be procured through ICB. Office equipment,
training aids, items of minor spare parts and handtools, and proprietary items will be packaged into
similar lots not exceeding US$50,000 and procured through international shopping (with a minimum
of three quotations), up to an aggregate value of US$160,000. Also, mobile radios will be procured
through international shopping as these requirements are of varied nature, and availability of after-
sales services is a pre-requisite. The aggregate value for these will not exceed US$350,000. The
Bank will review the need for the use of shopping procurement procedures.
4.44         DFR is the principal implementing agency responsible for carrying out the project,
including all procurement, with assistance from the management unit in MRH. This is the first free
standing feeder roads project and seventh in the road sub-sector in Ghana, and DFR staff has
benefitted from technical assistance provided in the earlier projects. Up to four DFR staff members
will be given training in procutement, through participation in the courses conducted by the Ghana
Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA) and ILO. They will be retained by
DFR to prepare designs, bidding documents, supervision of technical studies and construction industry
support. Technical assistance will include project management services and engineering specialists.
All consultancy contracts will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.
4.45         The borrower's procurement practices were reviewed in earlier projects and the
borrower has incorporated in the Standard Bidding Documents for works for ICB and LCB the
necessary provisions to comply with the Bank's requirements. These standard documents are based
on the Bank's Sample Bidding Document for Works and are to be used for this project. For goods,
the Bank's Sample Bidding Document for Goods will be used. Procurement for packages financed by
DANIDA and USAID will be according to the respective funding agency's procedures. The Bank
will act as the executing agency for OPEC-funded civil works. OPEC-funded civil works components
to the amount of US$5.0 million will follow Bank procurement procedures for LCB and ICB, the
latter with built-in prequalification process. The detailed procurement processing and project
implementation schedule is part of the project files from which the estimated disbursement schedule
has been derived.
4.46         During project supervision, Bank financed works contracts above a threshold of
US$500,000 will be subject to Bank's prior review. The review process will cover about 80 percent
of the total works contracts value procured by ICB and LCB. Goods contracts or packages above
US$ 100,000 will also be subject to prior review covering about 90 percent of total value of Bank
financed goods. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried
out during supervision missions. Prequalification of contractors will be done for all ICB contracts.
Retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million equivalent will be allowed under the credit, on account of
eligible payments made after January 1, 1992.
4.47         Procurement information will be provided by DFR as follows: Comprehensive
quarterly reports to the Bank by DFR, indicating:
(i)  revised cost estimates for individual contracts, including the estimates of
physical and price contingency allowances; and
(ii) planning information with the revised timing of procurement action, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts.



- 30
G.    isbuscm
4.48         The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1997. It will be disbursed
against the following categories. The disbursement schedule (Annex 4-19) is based on the project
implementation schedule.
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Percentage
IDA Amount      of Expenditure
Catgory                  (US$ Million)    to be financed
(a) Civil works                40.95          100% of foreign expenditures
and 60% of local expenditures
(b) Equipment, spare parts,     4.00          100% of foreign expenditures and
vehicles and materials                    90% of local expenditures
(c) Engineering services,       4.55          100%
technical assistance,
studies, training
and auditing
(d) Refinancing of PPF          0.75
(d) Unallocated                 4.75
TOTAL                      55.0
4.49         In order to facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a special account will be opened in US$ at a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The initial advance of US$2.0 million covers about 4 months of eligible
expenditures financed by IDA. Replenishment requests will be submitted by DFR to IDA on a
monthly basis. Each request must be fully documented except for contracts for (i) civil works less
than US$300,000 equivalent, (ii) other goods and services less than US$50,000 equivalent, and (iii)
consultancy contracts, training programs, studies and courses less than US$50,000 equivalent will be
disbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All supporting documentation will be
retained by DFR for review by periodic World Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
H.    Accounting and Auditing
4.50         DFR will establish separate accounts, in accordance with acceptable accounting
principles, to record all project expenditures and to maintain records on conmnitments,
reimbursements and the status of project funds. Audit covenants under previous road projects have
been met by the borrower. With respect to the amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs, DFR will
maintain records on contracts, invoices, and evidence of payments readily available for review.
External auditors acceptable to the Association will carry out audits of the Special Account, project
accounts including SOEs, and DFR accounting records, and provide long form audit reports to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. DFR will maintain accounting, costing,



- 31 -
procurement and progress report records for all project components. Local banks are adequately
auditvi by external auditors.
I.     Reporting and Monitoring
4.51          During negotiations, it was aereed that DFR will prepare and furnish to the
Association consolidated quarterly reports on the status of: procurement and disbursements,
commitments made under the project, progress on civil works, supply of goods, technical studies,
institutional accomplishments, sub-sector related issues, and local currency contributions made by the
road fund and frorn the Government budget towards routine and recurrent maintenance funding. Such
reports will include reasons for any shortfalls in meeting implementation schedules and measures to be
taken to make up shortfalls. DFR will update the project cost tables, monitor expenditures under
each category and assess the possible use of unallocated funds to meet cost overruns in other
categories.
J.     Environmental Assessment
4.52          The project is rated as B. A thorough environmental assessment was therefore
conducted comprising both, the direct and indirect environmental impacts of feeder road rehabilitation
and maintenance operations. Annex 420 contains a summary of the key results. Recommendations
of the study will be integrated into DFR's feeder road planning, design and works execution activities
during project implementation. To ensure mitigation of possible negative environmental impacts of
feeder road works, it was agreed during negotiations that DFR will incorporate into its existing feeder
road guidelines for engineering design and execution of works environmentally sound procedures,
standards and practices. DFR has requested training in environmental assessment, especially
regarding the incorporation of sound environmental principles into contractor training programs. This
will be provided under the project, in close cooperation with the EPC. Experimentation with the
tarring of selected feeder roads, on a pilot basis, in high rainfall areas such as the Western Region
will enable DFR to draw proper comparisons to the performance of traditional gravel-surfaced feeder
roads and will contribute to DFR's build-up of sound environmental know-how.
4.53          Feeder road design and execution of works in Ghana is now guided by the dual
concepts of serviceability and durability. The serviceability concept emphasizes the provision of all-
weather access, independently of geometric standards, while durability is based on environmentally
sound engineered and constructed feeder roads, mainly comprising adequate road surface, lateral and
cross-drainage for erosion prevention. Direct environmental impacts resulting from local runoff and
the destruction of natural soil and road embankments need to be minimized using improved design
methods and the appropriate choice of rehabilitation and maintenance methods. This new approach is
in sharp contrast to the traditional design speed concept. While the latter has led to over-designed
feeder roads in Ghana and elsewhere, leading to unnecessarily high geometric features and incurring
high construction and maintenance costs, rehabilitation and maintenance works under the project will
generally remain on existing feeder road alignments.
4.54          The project will not have significant indirect effects on the environment. To avoid
such impacts, feeder road rehabilitation in national parks, game production reserves and sanctuaries
(see map) is not included in the project. Also, new feeder road construction is nut intended. In a
few cases, due to traffic safety problems, roadways will need widening and, specifically on curves,
realignment to eliminate hazardous spots. Since the project intends to minimize earthworks, vertical
realignments will be held to the minimum, diminating the need for heavy excavation and
embankments. In addition, it is not expected that existing land use pattern will change substantially



- 32 -
due to improved accessibility. A tree planting component and labor-based road works will contribute
to soil conservation.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01          Proiect Benefits. Feeder roads are an important part of Ghana's road network,
serving an estimated 70 percent of the population who live in rural areas and depend on agriculture
for their livelihood. Feeder roads provide rural settlements with access to social services and
economic opportunity otherwise only available in larger centers. Most importantly, feeder roads
connect rural settlements to market centers. The poor condition of feeder roads in Ghana has been a
serious constraint on agricultural production and marketing, discouraging farmers from producing
beyond the subsistence level. Feeder roads in good condition are a prerequisite for increased
agricultural production. They also (i) ensure increased accessibility to extension services; (ii) foster
development of markets; (iii) lead to a reduction in transport cost and storage losses; and (iv) enable
intensified cultivation, and/or an increase in land area cropped.
5.02          Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) have been calculated for each individual feeder
road selected for the first (560 km) and second (1,140 kmn) phases. For feeder roads being selected
for the third phase (800 km), ERRs were extrapolated from phase-i and phase -2 economic analyses
since data on these roads are yet to be collected and analyzed. Quantifiable benefits include: (i)
increases in agricultural production, and (ii) reduction in transport costs on existing production.
Estimated ERRs are high; an average of 47 percent for feeder road rehabilitation during the first and
second phases (see Table 1 in Annex 5-1). This reflects the inherently high return in this type of
investment, as well as the fact that economic return criteria have been used systematically in choosing
feeder roads for rehabilitation.
5.03         Unquantifiable project benefits comprise:
(a)   improved a_cess to markets, extension services and other social services;
(b)    enhanced DFR institutional capacity to sustain the rehabilitation and maintenance
program in the future;
(c)   increased rural employment, specifically for women as a result of labor-based feeder
road rehabilitation and maintenance technology;
(d)   improved transport services to rural communities by private freight and passenger
carriers;
(e)    environmental protection and improvement from improved road drainage and erosion
control; and
(f)    alleviation of rural poverty through the project's overall impact, and through the
specially targeted rural transport component.
5.04          The project's rural mobility and environment component is designed to contribute to
poverty alleviation. By relieving women of the burden of headloading their farm produce, firewood,
water, etc., time will be saved and channelled into more productive activity such as cotton spinning,



- 33 -
shea butter extraction and vegetable farming. Proceeds from the latter can be used to supplement
their diet as well as increase their protein intake.
5.05         The project will generate both direct and indirect employment. Direct employment
has been partly accounted for under project benefits in the form of induced production or value
added. By the end of 1992, DFR is expected to have equipped 47 labor-based contractors with each
of them employing between 150 and 200 laborers daily. Based on a daily wage rate of US$1.50, this
will mean a further infusion of wage income around US$3.6 million (equivalent to 2.5 million person-
days of rural employment generated) into the rural economies of the selected road areas. This
calculation is based on a 4 year project period with 1,000 km of feeder roads to be rehabilitated by
the labor-intensive method. These benefits, which were not considered in the economic analysis, will
be primarily for the rural poor such as women and unemployed men.
5.06         Road Area Prioritization and Feeder Road Pre-Selection for Rehabilitation. The pre-
selection of feeder roads was preceded by a road area prioritization exercise conducted jointly by MA
and DFR. For each of the 32 road areas in the country, four criteria, i.e. (i) agricultural production;
(ii) transport cost; (iii) population; and (iv) extent of maintenance activities on feeder roads, were
assigned weights in order to rank the 32 road areas according to socio-economic importance. These
weights were mutually agreed upon by MA and DFR. The variables and their respective weights
were used in ranking and classifying road areas into three priority zones, e.g. high, medium and low.
A detailed description of the methodology and the results achieved are given in Annex 3-6.
5.07         Following the prioritization of road areas, feeder roads in the selected high and
medium potential road areas were pre-selected using three criteria in feeder road corridors: (i)
population, (ii) existence of social services, and (iii) road condition. These variables were given
weights to rank the roads according to the potential benefits. The pre-selected feeder roads were then
submitted to the relevant District Assemblies for comment. The pre-selection methodology is also
described in detail in Annex 3-6. The total length of the roads pre-selected in any particular road
area is dependent on the overall feeder road length in that road area and the proportion in good
condition.
5.08         A total of about 1,100 km of feeder roads were initially pre-selected for rehabilitation
for the first phase of the project, out of which 560 km in four zones covering seven districts turned
out to be economically viable and were finally selected for funding. For the second phase of the
project, out of a total of 1,900 kn pre-selected, 1,140 km of feeder roads in eight road areas covering
47 districts tiurned out to be economically viable. For the third phase of the NFRRMP, a further
1,540 km of feeder roads covering additional eight road areas have been pre-selected for economic
evaluation. Studies are still ongoing and it is anticipated that about 800 km wil' be economically
viable, bringing the overall length of feeder roads to be rehabilitated under the project to 2,500 km.
5.09         Evaluation Methodology. In using a producer surplus approach 2/, two major
benefit streams were estimated: (i) increases in agricultural value added due to increases in
production, and (ii) reduced transport costs or savings accruing to transporters on existing production.
The analysis of these two major benefit streams indicates that the increases in value added are far
more important than savings accruing to transporters. Increased value added is due to the
2I As suggested in Beenhakker's "Simplified Operational Procedures for Screening and
Appraisal".



- 34 -
intensification of agriculture rather than expansion in area cultivated or due to improved technology.
Details of the evaluation methodology are contained in Annex 5-1.
5.10          The estimates of benefits for each phase-i feeder road were based on field data
provided by consultants from a study of four project zones in Accra/Volta, Salaga/Bimbilla, North
Western and Ejura/Kintampo. In each zone, feeder roads were selected representing various levels of
accessibility. In all, 1,200 households in 24 road corridors were interviewed. Similarly, the
estimates of benefits for the second phase feeder roads were based on field data collected in the
following road areas: Mampong, Sunyani, Techiman, Bekwai, Cape Coast, Hohoe, Yendi, Tamale,
and Tumu. About 1,500 households living along both accessible and inaccessible feeder road
corridors were interviewed. Data for econc mic evaluation of third phase feeder roads is being
collected and analyzed following techniques used for phase-l and phase-2 roads.
5.11          Economic Return and Sensitivity. ERRs were calculated for each of 66 and 206
individual road links selected for the first and second phases, respectively. Out of the first phase
roads, 42 links, with a total length of 560 kn, were considered economically viable with rates of
return in excess of 10 percent, adopted as opportunity cost of investment resources. For the second
phase roads, 121 links, totalling 1,140 km turned out to be economically viable. The ERRs on the
selected roads ranged form 10 percent to well over 100 percent. A summary of ERRs for each road
link in the first and second project phases is provided in Annex 5-2.
5.12         ERRs for phase-3 feeder roads were extrapolated from phase-i and phase-2 feeder
roads. The estimate comes to an ERR of 42 percent. Slightly higher rehabilitation cost were
assumed than those available for phase-i and phase-2 feeder roads. The ERR estimate for periodic
maintenance (regravelling) on 2,850 km of feeder roads comes to 83 percent. This estimate is high
since periodic maintenance costs are only about 50 percent of rehabilitation costs while benefits
remain high due to the continued full accessibility which regravelled feeder roads provide to
agriculture and the rural economy. If other project components with unquantifiable benefits are
included, the ovgrall project ERR comes to 44 percent (see Table 1 in Annex 5-1).
5.13          ERRs obtained for phase-1, phase-2, and phase-3 rehabilitation, for regravelling
works, and for the whole project were subjected to sensitivity analyses assuming (i) a 20 percent
increase in costs, (ii) a 20 percent reduction in benefits and, (iii) a simultaneous 20 percent increase in
costs and a 20 percent reduction in benefits. Results of the sensitivity analyses are also reported in
Table 1 of Annex 5-1. These indicate that project roads are equally sensitive to 20 percent cost
increases and 20 percent benefit decreases. This also applies to the total project. Under a scenario in
which benefits would decrease by 20 percent and costs would simultaneously increase by 20 percent,
the ERR for the first phase feeder roads (560 km) would drop from 47 to 27 percent and as many as
14 out of 42 feeder roads (33 percent) would have ERRs of less than 10 percent. Under the same
scenario, second phase feeder roads (1,140 km) would be affected in a similar way; 59 out of 121
road links (49 percent) would have ERRs of less than 10 percent. The decrease in ERR for
regravelling works under this scenario would be even larger, from 83 percent to 33 percent.
5.14          ERR estimates of project roads are therefore highly sensitive to simultaneous cost
increases of civil works and decreases in project benefits. However, a simultaneous 20 percent cost
increase and a 20 percent benefit dcrease is a highly unlikely case for the following reasons: (i) civil
works base costs contain a "safety margin", in addition to the standard 10 percent physical
contingency and design and supervision costs, and (ii) benefit estimates per feeder road links were
kept conservative, in addition to substantial unquantifiable benefits. Base ERRs for individual feeder
road links are high and reflect: (i) the high costs of previous feeder road construction, the benefits of



- 35 -
which can be restored with relatively limited additional investment; and (ii) the serious constraint on
agricultural production beyond the subsistence level posed by lack of access. Base ERRs are
therefore considered to be robust and reliable. In addition, DFR has agreed to recalculate ERRs for
phase-i feeder roads as soon as actual construction costs become available. A similar exercise will be
done for phase-2 and phase-3 rehabilitation and for regravelling works. The monitoring and
evaluation study will, inter alia, collect socio-economic data after completion of road works to
monitor and measure the socio-economic impact of feeder road rehabilitation. This will also allow re-
estimation of benefits for selected feeder road links.
5.15         Project Risks. There are three project risks: (i) difficulties in developing a sustainable
feeder road maintenance management system; (ii) constraints in DFR institutional capacity; and (iii)
increases in cost of feeder road rehabilitation works. If adequate resources from its central budget
and from district contributions are not assured by GOG to carry out sufficient routine and recurrent
maintenance, the feeder roads will fall into disrepair in a few years following the rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance investments and hence the anticipated benefits will not be realized.
5.16          The second project risk relates to DFR's limited institutional capacity. If during
project implementation DFR would not been able to recruit the required personnel to administer the
area offices and give technical support to the districts, then this would have a negative effect on
project results. The project will be a strain on DFR personnel in view of substantial project
implementation and supervision requirements. Also associated with this risk is the on-going process
of decentralization being pursued by the Government of Ghana.
5.17          It is also anticipated that if wage rates and the price of petroleum products increase,
the costs of rehabilitation and maintenance works are likely to increase proportionately. If the local
rate of inflation is not controlled, it will have the same effect on the cost of civil works components.
5.18         These risks are well known and will be minimized by the following measures under
the project:
(a)    ensuring that adequate funds are made available by Central Government budgetary
allocations for routine and recurrent maintenance;
(b)    deliberate efforts have to be made by DFR to attract middle level professional and
technical staff as well as technical assistance to fill critical positions; and
(c)    adoption of cost effective methods of design and of payment procedures enabling
prompt payments to contractors for works completed under the project is essential.
Design methods and payment procedures have been reviewed and agreed between
DFR and IDA.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01          In addition to standard covenants, the following matters were agreed with the
Govermment (MRH, DFR and MFEP):
(i)          The appointnent of a deputy director of planning, not later than
December 31, 1992; and the establishment of some 20 new road area



- 36 -
offices during the project implementation period, as needed and
starting July 1, 1992 (para. 3.08);
(ii)         The expansion of DFR at the district level following Government
decentralization objectives by extending its technical support to the
districts and, starting July 1, 1992, as needed the training of about 80
additional foremen for the supervision of district feeder road
maintenance activities (para. 3.09);
(iii)        The tarring of selected feeder roads in high rainfall areas on a pilot
experimental basis, provided the roads selected are economically
viable (para. 4.04);
(iv)         Sufficient annual budgetary allocations for its counterpart contributions
from the road fund and its budget to the costs of the project, the said
contributions being estimated by the Borrower and the Association to
amount, in the aggregate, over the project period to US$8.4 million
equivalent; the Borrower will furnish, through DFR, to the
Association for its review, three months prior to the start of the
respective period, the annual and quarterly estimates of project
expenditures, including the required counterpart funding by the
Borrower; and the Government will deposit into DFR's account before
the end of each quarter, starting in fiscal year 1993, the Borrower's
contributions to the financing of the project as set forth in the
quarterly estimates referred to above (para. 4.24);
(v)          Sufficient annual budgetary allocations for the recurrent and routine
maintenance of feeder roads in its budget in line with the agreed upon
funding schedule for the 1993-1996 period, namely the equivalent of
US$1.87 million in fiscal year 1993, the equivalent of US$2.75
million in fiscal year 1994, the equivalent of US$3.61 million in fiscal
year 1995 and the equivalent of US$4.48 million in fiscal year 1996
(para. 4.26);
(vi)         DFR will be provided with the necessary funds at the beginning of
each quarter based on the following detailed GOG funding schedule
for routine and recurrent feeder road maintenance (para. 4.27):
Period                     Year 1:      Year 2:       Year 3:      Year 4:
Activity                          CY-1993       CY-1994      CY-1995       CY-1996
Maintenance Funds per Year       US$1.87m      US$2.75m     US$3.61m      US$4.48m
Maintenance Funds per Quarter    US$0.47m      US$0.69m     US$0.90m      US$1.12m
(vii)        Retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million equivalent will be allowed
under the credit, on account of eligible payments made after January
1, 1992 (para. 4.33);



- 37 -
(viii)       Implementation performance of the project will be monitored against a
set of performance indicators and monitorable targets (para. 4.36);
(ix)         A mid-term project review involving IDA, cofinanciers and various
Government agencies will be carried out not later than December 31,
1994, to evaluate and assess (i) overall progress made in project
implementation; (ii) performance of DFR as executing agency; (iii) the
adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding as well as the level of
budgetary allocations and actual expenditures for routine and recurrent
maintenance; and (iv) the need for redesign and/or restructuring of
project components. The mid-term review will also (i) assess the
results and recommendations of completed studies, ongoing technical
assistance and training programs, and (ii) agree with the borrower on
implementation of findings, including (a) the organization and
maintenance study; (b) the maintenance performance budgeting system
development; (c) the domestic contractor assessment and development
study; (d) the institutional arrangements made for district-based
routine feeder road maintenance; (e) DFR staff and domestic
contractor training programs; (f) progress of the rural mobility and
environmental component; and (g) monitoring and evaluation studies
(para. 4.37);
(x)          DFR will prepare and furnish to the Association consolidated quarterly
reports on the status of: procurement and disbursement, commitments
made under the project, progress on civil works, supply of goods,
technical studies, institutional accomplishments, sub-sector related
issues, and local currency contributions made by the road fund and
from the Government budget (para. 4.51); and
(xi)         DFR will incorporate into its existing feeder road guidelines for
engineering design and execution of works environmentally sound
procedures, standards and practices (para. 4.52).
6.02         Condiotios of Credit Effectiveness are:
(i)          The creation of a planning division at DFR head office (para.3.08);
(ii)         The appointment of the contract management specialist (para. 4.09);
(iii)        The appointment of two qualified accountants to assist DFR in
carrying out all financial aspects of project implementation (para.
4.10); and
(iv)         The Borrower will deposit into DFR's account in Cedis the equivalent
of US$300,000 as its counterpart contribution to the financing of the
project for fiscal year 1992 (para. 4.24).
6.03         On the basis of the above agreements reached, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$55.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



.REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS RERARILITATIAN AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Ministry of Roads and Highways
OrRanization Chart
I      PNDC Secret"
Ch. _fManagement
Und TPM)
MRH                                                                       Regpora
Budeet                             Depsoey PNDC                            StaridF c
Comitatee                                                                  CoeSCmSoees
STAFF    DEPAG TMENTS
Director                                                                            Director
Techdca                                                                           Adiniinistration
Chief                                                                               Chief 
afmmid    ||CooSnaSon                   eerh l| Mf=9t|| Fnlc n
UNE     AGENCIES
DFR               DUJR              GHA
0h -



- 39 -
Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINITENANCE PROJECT
Administrative Structure of Decentralization
A. Departments under District Assembly Authority
I.           The 22 departments to be decentralized are:
-     Education Service
-     Library Board
-     Information Services
-     Social Welfare
-     Community Development
-     Town and Country Planning
- **   Ghana Highway Authority
-     Public Works
-     Parks and Gardens
-     Rural Housing and Cottage Industries
-     Statistical Service
-     Births and Deaths Registry
-     F'orestry
-     Controller and Accountant-General
Medical Officer of Health
-     Departmeri' of Feeder Roads
-     Fire Service Departmnent
-     Animal Health and Production
-     Fisheries
-     Agricultural Extension Services
-     Crop Services
-     Agriculture Engineering.
** Due to the national character of trunk roads (as opposed to the district character of feeder
roads), the Ghana Highway Authority appears to have argued successfully agzains its
decentralization.
B. Overall Administrative Structure
2.           While the principle political and administrative component of the decentralization strategy
is the District Assembly, there are several levels of organization involved, each of which plays an
operational, coordinating or consent role in support of district development activities. The overall
administrative structure consists of the following levels:
(a)    Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC). The Provisional National Defense



- 40 -
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 4
Council or "Council" is the highest political authority in Ghana. With respect to
decentralized operations, its role is to approve district development plans and budgets
forwarded to it through Regional Coordinating Councils.  At the national level,
coordination of plans is the responsibility of the National Development Planning
Commission which forwards recommendations to the PNDC via a Committee of
Secretaries. The PNDC maintains executive authority over District Assemblies and can,
for instance, create or dissolve Assemblies, alter district boundaries and change Assembly
functions by way of legislative instrument.
(b)    Regional Coordinating Councils (10). Decentralization will significantly reduce the role
of regional government from that of an active administrative body to one of a general
coordination body. The ten Regional Coordinating Councils do not operate as legislative
bodies per se, nor do they have direct executive authority over District Assemblies.
Rather, they meet once a year (minimum) to review, coordinate and submit to the PNDC
for approval the plans and budgets of District Assemblies in their region. Their key role
is to assure that projects which encompass multiple districts are properly coordinated.
Membership of Regional Councils is comprised of all District Secretaries and Presiding
Members of District Assemblies in a region, a Regional Secretary (appointed by PNDC)
and his/her ex officio deputies.
(c)    District Assemblies (110). District Assemblies are the key legislative and administrative
component of the system. They have both legal and executive authority over all
government activities in a given district and, significantly, their accountability is directly
to the PNDC, not to regional authorities. For more details on the proposed structure of
District Assemblies, see para. 3 to 10 below.
(d)    Town/Area Councils and Unit Committees. These sub-district administrative units can
be established via legislative instrument by District Secretaries on recommendation by the
Assembly and with approval of the Council. There is no specific itemization of duties
for these organizations, such being specified in the legislative act at the discretion of
district authorities.
(e)    Village Committees. Village committees are not formal units of government. However,
numerous committees and village groups are organized on an ad hoc basis to address
development issues. These committees/groups are organized on a self-help basis in
keeping with the major theme of decentralization.  Since the inception of the
decentralization strategy there has been a substantial increase in the number of village
committees, the majority of which have been organized by various government
departments to assist efforts in a given sector. DFR's "Village Road Committees" are
examples of this level of organization.
(f)    Metropolitan Assemblies. Although not directly relevant to the NFRRMP, it should be
noted that the three urban areas of Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi are governed
by Metropolitan Assemblies with powers similar to District Assemblies.
C. Structure and Staffing of District Authorities



- 41 -
Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 4
3.           District Assemblies are comprised of one representative from each sub-district electoral
area, a District Secretary and additional centrally appointed members not exceeding one-third of total
membership. Appointed members are typically selected on the basis of traditional authority (i.e. chiefs
or their representatives) and/or affiliation with community, educational, religious, NGO, private sector
or similar groups, but do not represent these directly. The relative number of appointed members vary
with the size of districts, but in most cases appear to nearly equate to one-third of Assembly membership.
Assemblies generally consist of about thirty to sixty members, although some approach 100 members.
Each Assembly elects a Presiding Member by two-thirds majority who serves for one year. Assemblies
are required to meet in formal session at least four times per year.
4.           An Executive Committee, comprising no more than one-third of the total Assembly, meets
in between Assembly sessions to exercise executive and coordinating functions. The Executive
Committee cannot, of course, preempt the legal and legislative functions of the Assembly. However, the
Executive Committee does assist the District Secretary to manage the day-to-day administration of the
District. It plays the key role in linking the larger political Assembly to district management, primarily
by overseeing the following standard sub-committees:
-     Economic and Social Development
-      Social Services
-     Technical Infrastructure
-     Justice and Security
-     Finance and Administration
-     Ad hoc and district-specific sub-committees.
5.           Heads of governmental departments are required to attend meetings of relevant sub-
committees, as non-voting members, to advise on their sectoral activities. DFR staff, for instance, would
be expected to attend the Technical Infrastructure Sub-Committee in each district.
6.           The District Secretary (DS), appointed by Central Government, is the principle
administrator of the district, Chairman of the Executive Committee and voting member on the Regional
Coordinating Council. The DS supervises day-to-day operations on behalf of the Assembly and a "core"
staff organized under:
-     Deputy Director Planning and Budget Unit;
-     Deputy Director Administration; and
-     Internal Auditors (Local Government Inspectors).
7.           Each District has a "Development, Planning and Budget Unit" headed by a Deputy
Director (DDPBU). This unit provides a secretariat to the Executive Committee in addition to managing
sub-departments dealing with budget, social, economic and spatial development planning activities. A
Deputy Director of Administration (DDA) would oversee sub-departments for treasury, municipal services
and internal administration (e.g. personnel). Hypothetically, each of these Deputy Directors would have
staff complements to run sub-departments.
8.           In consultation with an inter-ministerial "Task Force for Programming and Implementation
of Decentralization", discussions currently underway within the Ministry of Local Government include



- 42 -
Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 4
a proposal to add a Coordinating Director (CD) to district staff who would be placed directly under the
DS. The CD's role would emphasize management, while the DS would concentrate on political and
policy matters. No decision has been made on this proposal.
9.           All districs have constituted Assemblies, formulated Executive Committees and are
staffed by at least District Secretaries and some manner of core staff (with the exception of a
Coordinating Director which is still under consideration). However, numerous vacancies exist, beginning
at the Deputy Director level. Nearly all districts have a significant number of vacant posts, especially
among core staff which would support DDPBUs and DDAs. One response to this situation is the
Government's creation of a "Mobile Budget Unit" to assist districts with budget preparation and
elementary administrative matters.
10.          The structure and staffing requirements outlined above are still very much in the process
of being developed and cannot be assumed to be adequately operational in all but a few, relatively large
districts and metropolitan areas. This still limits the District Assembly's capacity to assume managerial
and administrative supervision of line departments such as DFR.
AF4IN
November 1991
(AdmStrDe.NFR)



- 43 -
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
District Planning and Composite Budgeting Process
1.           Under PNDC Law 207, District Assemblies will be responsible for preparing and
submitting annual development plans and budgets to the PNDC for approval. All development
activities undertaken in the districts will therefore be subject to PNDC authority and, in turn,
programs and projects approved in these plans will be executed by departments, subject to District
Assembly authority.
2.           When PNDC Law 207 is fully implemented, all district-level department operations
will come under district budget control. District Assemblies will prioritize departmental activities.
Funds (including salaries) will be allocated to districts for onward disbursement to departments. All
field staff will be paid through district channels. Operational guidance and disbursements of
contractor fees will be under district control.
3.           As envisioned in the law, the principal budgetary mechanism for effecting this change
would be the requirement that districts compile and administer annual "composite budgets."
Composite budgets would contain aggregate revenue and expenditure estimates inclusive of the district
assembly, district administration and all departments under district administration. The development
plans and programs of each departnent are also to be included.
4.           The annual process of composite budgeting is relatively straightforward. District
secretaries would request technical plans and corollary budget estimates from the twenty-two
decentralized departments. The executive committee of the District Assembly would receive
departmental proposals and integrate these proposals with their own plans for spending locally
generated revenues. The resulting composite budget would then be considered by the District
Assembly. Approved budgets and development plans would be forwarded to the Regional
Coordination Council, which passes them to the National Development Planning Commission, which
passes them to the PNDC.
5.           Regional Coordinating Councils and the National Development Planning Commission
are largely conduits to the PNDC. The Coordinating Councils have very limited powers to
substantively review proposed projects which involve more than one district. The National
Development Planning Commission prepares analyses of individual and aggregated budgets, but has
no review or approval prerogatives. After approval by the PNDC of district budgets, funds would be
released directly to the districts for expenditure against approved estimates.
6.           In the case of DFR, annual budget proposals would presumably include an inventory
of feeder roads (including accurate reports of current condition); proposed priority activities and
estimates of their associated costs; identification of potential funding sources and amounts;



- 44 -
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 2
identification of projects which require coordination with other districts; and recommendations for
District Assembly action.
7.            No serious effort to implement the composite budgeting process has been undertaken
so far. With few exceptions, the "decentralized' departments continue to plan and budget from the
center. There is considerable variation in the extent to which districts plan, budget and administer in
coordination with the local offices of the departments.
8.            A review of selected traditional budgets indicates that they contain reasonably detailed
revenue figures, but expenditure estimates are generally limited to District Assembly and core
administrative expenses. Departmental expenditures, where available, are included as notations on
selected projects which are expected during the fiscal year. Complete departmental operating budgets
are not provided. Indeed, departments may be unable to provide such information disaggregated by
district.
9.            Review of a very limited number of current district budgets suggests the need for
improvement and a certain degree of standardization of budget categories. No district budget
reviewed included a discrete line item for routine feeder road maintenance. It is rather more typical
for budgets to include a line item for "community initiated projects," a portion of which may be used
for feeder road rehabilitation and/or periodic maintenance.
10.          Alternatively, a budget might estimate the cost of rehabilitation or periodic
maintenance of a particular feeder road that the district wishes to undertake. The budgets reviewed
contained no information on DFR feeder road activities, despite numerous DFR projects in the
districts in question. District budgets are not yet designed to itemize these projects, let alone actually
manage project expenditures.
AF4IN
November 1991
(CompBudg.NFR)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Department of Feeder Roads
Organization Charts
Developmnent  |                                             Administration  ||Maintenance
cocoalp k nning            S wvey    &  D w elopinefd  A ft nistration  Accounts     P eronn el  &    Contract         Road       M e chanics   &   R egions
pleads                De~signre    Deepnin    Amis,tinPsu                         Training    Administration   Mairdn-teace   Procurement       g
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
j    e
LQe
a    ex~~~~~~
w
I l
0  1



Rtegional
Enigineer
Aooourns            Regional             StaNt                          Mechanical                Project
Stores and            uafyEngineer                                       Supervisor      _        Engineer
Admnstrabon           Surveyor          Capial Eiase                                             Labour Base
Mechanics
S.T.O. Ouanfity
T.O. Quantity
Accourds  Adrnir isSion  Stores  Residern            eidn                                           Assistant              Assistanl      Assistant |
aficers   Ollicers  Olficers    ~Engineer           Egneer                                          Engineer               Engineer       Engineer 
Contracts          Mrmat                                           Siam                   Contracts1 I   Contracts11 
L                    | En9neerl  |           | ~~~~~~~~Enginel|
|Fosamn |     Forernan                                                        Fme *rO n       Forexrn|
I Fblhcal       Po         ||al Drahase                    Towed Grded     |      ,     1    
|Dist       || Dishia2     jSactme Tearn|                  Tearn                  II
<                 <                     _               <~~~~~~~.  1 2 3 4 5 6  7 E 9 10
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O I
01



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
FEEDER ROAD CONDITION AND SURFACE TYPE BY REGION
AS OF AUGUST 1991
(in Km)
c=======a===== = ===========================a====================a==
REGION          CONDITION TYPE               SURFACE TYPE
GOOD    FAIR   POOR    GRAVEL   EARTH BITUMEN       TOTAL
LENGTH
Greater
Accra            74     193     551        530     144     144       817
Volta           232     488   1,628        907   1,426      15     2,348
Eastern         386     811   1,118      1,044   1,269       2     2,315
Central         162   1,112     707        990     928      63     1,981
Western         205     616   1,518        869   1,470       -     2,339
Ashanti         808     277   2,243      1,098   2,161      69     3,328
Brong
Ahafo           627     453   2,277        976   2,381       -     3,3S7
Northern        318     809   1,254      1,034   1,346       -     2,381
Upper East      148     198     606        469     483       -       952
Upper West      368     112     968        422   1,026       -     1,448
TOTAL         3,327   5,069  12,868     8,338  12,634      293    21,265
PERCENT          16      24      61         39      59       1       100
mm  mmm           mm  mm      mmmm       m      mm  mm    mm  zmm  mminmmin="Xt===D5ssss



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                   Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DFR PERSONNEL AT POST AS OF AUGUST 1991
HQ/REGION      CIV.   PLAN.  QUANT.   ENG.  TECH.  F/MEN  ADMOIN.  OPER-  DRIVERS  ARTISANS  LABS          TOTAL
ENG.  OFCR.   SURV. TECH. OFCR. SUPT.   STAFF  ATORS                            RERS    ALL CLASS
Headquarters      8        3       3       1      3      -      32               20          -     5            75
G/Accra            1       -       -       1      5      -       11      -        2          5     3           28
Volta             2                1              6     18        9     12        7          6    35            96
CentraL            1       -       1       1     10     14       5       9        2          2    32            77
Western/
(Takoradi)        2        -       -      1       7     11      11       6        5         6    19            68
cwiawso Dist.)    2        -       -      -       2      7       9      15        8          1    13           57
Eastern           4        -               1      9     18      20      21       13          7    32           125
(Koforidua)       -        -       -      2       8      7      10       2       11         6    13            59
tK dua dist.)/
PANSCAD            I       -       -       5             3       3       5        4          3     -            24
Ashanti            1       -       -       7      8     10       13      7       15          9    13            83
(Kunasi)          2        -       1      2       7     27        -      9        5          2    42           97
Nanpong Dist.      -                       1      -      2       12      -        -          -    12            27
Bekwai Dist.      3        -       -       1      1     14        1      7        6          4    19            56
Brong Ahafo       5        -       1      4       8     43       13     16       11          6    73           180
(Sunyani)         2        -       1       1      6      4       9       5        6          5    25           64
(Goaso)           4        -       -       1      -      7       3       5        4          2     5           31
(Techiman)        -        -       -      2       -      1           -                -                         3
Northern          6        -       1       4      6     12       12     10       10          7    30            98
(Tamule)          3                -      2       8     14       9       5        4          3    38           86
Upper West         1                              4      3        6     10        2          -    14            40
Upper East         1       -               2      3      4        8      4        1          3    31            57
TOTAL            49        3       9     39    101    219       196    148      136         77   454          1431
PERCENT           3        0       1       3      7     15       14     10       10          5    32           100
s-ag-===w==wn3=B==ea2e=mB    c=aFts-=aa==a==B=as=aaa="v



- 49 -
Annex 34
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
The Rod Committee System
1.         A hierarchical structure of committees has been devised for the purposes of community
participation in planning and execution of voluntary feeder road maintenance. The system has been
in place on an experimental basis in some districts since 1986, with mixed results. It consists of:
(a)   A District Road Committee which is at the top of the hierarchy of committees. It is
chAired by the District Secretary and includes representatives of the major interest
groups in the district. The relevant road area engineer and foreman from DFR attend.
This committee has an important role in selecting feeder roads to be the subject of
maintenance. In addition, PNDC Law 207 requires district level participation in the
planning and budgetary process. Districts discuss their priorities and reconcile
conflicting demands. DFR's regional engineers take these views into account when
formulating regional budget proposals.
(b)   Central Road Committees which are at the next level down in the hierarchy of
committees. These committees are in charge of formulating arrangements for
allocation of maintenance responsibilities for specific sections of the feeder road
network to specific communities.
(c) Village Road Maintenance Committees which have the responsibility for ensuring the
physical maintenance of a specific length of the feeder road network. 'They are
provided with tools, technical advice and training by DFR via its foremen.
Organization of work depends on community preferences. Sometimes it may be done
by a gang of 8-10 people on a full-time basis. In other situations it may be done on a
lengthman basis. Villagers are sometimes mobilized to assist in spot improvement
works (recurrent maintenance) which are executed by DFR's MOREMAT units.
Tbere is, however, a tolerance level for unpaid labor on such works which can have
negative effects on the willingness to undertake voluntary routine maintenance.
2.         The Road Committee system is used primarily to organize voluntary labor to perform
roadside and drainage maintenance, tasks which can be done entirely by hand labor. Routine road
surface maintenance is performed by SIAM units using towed graders and other equipment to assist
voluntary laborers and to provide backup where voluntary labor is inadequate. The role of the
SIAM units is also to fill gaps left by MOREMAT units which respond to emergency repair and
heavy blading priorities set by District Assemblies.
3.         It has generally been assumed that routine maintenance on feeder roads in Ghana can
be carried out with considerable dependence on voluntary community labor, managed through the
above Road Committees, organized primarily by district authorities which would rely on DFR for
technical support. VQluntary labor is assumed to be a workable solution to the dilemma of routine
maintenance for a greatly expanded network of feeder roads. Field evidence shows that this
conclusion is hard to support.



- 50 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 2
4.         There have been serious problems with voluntary community labor from the outset and
these continue to exist. DFR itself has not yet adequately addressed the breadth of management,
organization and technical problems which this approach requires. DFR's own experience with
road committees and voluntary labor on feeder roads rehabilitated under the labor-based contractor
scheme has increasingly shown it to be much more complex and management-intensive than
originally assumed. Indeed, most field staff interview ved consider it to be the least effective option
available.
5.         DFR apparently intends the road committee system to be a 'free-standing" mechanism
to transfer maintenance responsibility to districts and communities once feeder road rehabilitation
works are completed. The organization, management and implementation of maintenance activities
would be basically operated by non-DFR district personnel in coordination with village leadership.
6.         The distinction between technical versus organizational and management support is
critical. While DFR would provide technical assistance to committees and maintenance groups,
ajj:i organizational and management tasks would be done through committees supported by District
Assembly authorities. Ideally, DFR would then be free to concentrate on feeder road rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance activities (as it has done in the past), limiting its role in routine and
recurrent maintenance to engineering input and spot improvements requiring mechanized equipment.
7.         The success of the model depends on:
*    the capacity of district officials to organize and maintain the road committee system;
*    the willingness and ability of communities to consistently provide voluntary labor over
time which can in turn perform routine maintenance activities to basic technical
standards; and
*    the availability and scheduling of DFR technical staff, particularly at the foreman and
road area engineer level.
8.         As a means to encourage communities to assume responsibility for routine
maintenance, they were initially given an 'incentive" in the form of food-for-work rations. The
incentive is designed to stop after six months. It is expected that the community will voluntarily
continue maintaining feeder roads thereafter.
9.         The road committee system will be investigated and tested further. Districts which
have already established well-functioning road committees will be allowed to incorporate these into
their NFRRMP road maintenance activities. However, no general effort to stimulate development
of road committees in additional districts will be undertaken unless and until field research
demonstrates the utility of a country-wide road committee system.
AF41N
November 1991
(RoadComm.NFR)



- 51 -
Annex 3-5
Page I of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Experience with Voluntary Community Labor
1.           Recent experience with voluntary community labor for routine feeder road maintenance
is, at best, mixed. Indeed, there is little reason to assume that voluntary community labor will effectively
operate over the long-term and that it can accommodate the needs of maintaining a greatly expanded
feeder road network. This conclusion is based on the supposition that, as the network expands over the
proposed eight-year NFRRMP, it will be increasingly necessary to have an effective routine feeder road
maintenance system which is:
*     predictable in terms of regular scheduling and execution of maintenance activities;
*     reliable in terms of technical control of maintenance tasks; and
*     manageable in terms of supervision, cost control and technical staff input.
2.           Experience in Ghana (as elsewhere) suggests that, with respect to ongoing routine feeder
road maintenance, voluntary community labor is neither predictable nor reliable, nor amenable to the
management of relatively intensive, repetitive tasks required by routine maintenance performance
standards. This is not to suggest that community self-help is undesirable or cannot be used for some
maintenance activities. Rather, it is simply the case that community volunteerism is appropriate for some,
but not all development activities. Based on current experience, routine feeder road maintenance does
not appear to be one of them.
3.           Recent field assessments on the effectiveness of routine feeder road maintenance by
voluntary community labor have resulted in the following observations supporting the above viewpoint:
(a)   Ineffective Road Committees. DFR field staff acknowledge that most road committees
are either ineffectual or completely inoperable. Political authorities have not yet proved
effective in organizing and sustaining the system over time and have limited influence on
community priorities and decisions about which projects they will undertake. In contrast
to the theoretical model of a free-standing road committee mechanism which would
ensure ongoing routine feeder road maintenance, there is no "system" which is self-
perpetuating. Essentially, this means that DFR field staff must personally mobilize
voluntary routine feeder road maintenance each tine it is required. Road committees are
most effective during the planning, construction and incentive phase, but there is a
general pattern of gradual decline and loss of enthusiasm after feeder roads have been
completed and incentives withdrawn. Community enthusiasm is invariably high at the
beginning of feeder road rehabilitation projects. For example, several communities have
voluntarily cleared bush prior to a contractor arriving on site. However, once a feeder



- 52 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 5
road is rehabilitated, community and district priorities naturally begin to shift to more
pressing problems. From the community's perspective, the road is "finished". Some
communities have also begun to assert that roads should be maintained by Government
or by the contractor who built them.
(b)   Inadequate Follow-up. The relatively high level of follow-up required to organize routine
feeder road maintenance also poses a problem. Community organization is management-
intensive, especially for projects which entail frequent, repetitive and consistent inputs
such as routine feeder road maintenance. District Assembly staff are typically involved
in setting up road committees, but cannot and/or do not allocate the amount of time
needed to support community leadership to ensure that feeder roads are, in fact,
continuously maintained. For example, the frequency of village visits by Community
Development Officers varies from one- to six-month intervals. Higher level officials,
such as District Secretaries, may visit a given community only once a year.
(c)    Conflicting DFR Staff Priorities. DFR field staff consequently spend an inordinate
amount of time trying to organize communities, manage road committees and supervise
volunteers (if and when they are available). While they have done a commendable job
thus far, DFR staff are technicians, not political organizers, and are not trained in
community organizing skills. As the maintainable feeder road network expands, they
may be impelled to spend even more time on the political task of organizing communities
and less on technical work. This could have serious implications for the seven year
NFRRMP, since the work load of DFR engineers will significantly increase as the
program is implemented. Field staff already encounter this problem in districts where
a significant number of feeder roads have been completed under the labor-based
construction program. The modest success of voluntary maintenance programs is due to
the commitment of DFR technical and field staff. They appear to have done an excellent
job of working with local chiefs, other community leadership and voluntary workers
themselves, even in cases where official district administrative support has been relatively
ineffectual. Nonetheless, it must be recognized that this consumes a lot of time, is not
being accomplished through a self-perpetuating road committee system and is dependent
on the personal commitment and skills of individual DFR personnel.
(d)    Lack of Incentives.  Community participation declines after incentives have been
removed. Reasons for this range from the obvious assumption that people are unwilling
to continue working for free when they have been working for some compensation, to
situations in which communities are suspicious that incentives are being withheld by
either district or DFR staff. Many community members are also aware that the Ghana
Highway Authority pays reasonable wages for routine trunk road maintenance under its
singleman contractor system and therefore do not see why they should not be afforded
the same opportunity.
(e)    Road Quality. As noted in other reports, community participation and enthusiasm
declines in relation to the quality of the road. A newly rehabilitated road may not - from



- 53 -
Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 5
the community's point of view - receive priority over other communal labor demands,
precisely because it is in good shape.
(e    Inadequate Technical Performance. It is also difficult for the community at large to
respond to the need for frequent preventive maintenance performed to the technical
standards preferred by DFR engineers. DFR field staff reported that routine maintenance
performed by volunteers on communal workdays often falls short of expectations. While
grass cutting and bush clearing are relatively straightforward, ditch and culvert clearing
can be more complex if there are significant drainage problems. It is nearly impossible
to provide training and supervision of these tasks on a consistent basis, since each task
, *              may be done by a different volunteer on any given workday. Field staff report that
volunteers who previously worked on feeder roads under labor-based contractors are
much better at performing routine maintenance tasks because they tend to have a better
understanding of technical standards. Nonetheless, because of the voluntary nature of
this work, it is extremely difficult for DFR staff to insist that labor redo tasks to a higher
standard.
(g)    Variable Community Participation. Community participation is highly variable and is
influenced by many events outside of the control of road committees, DFR and district
authorities. It is certainly inescapable that participation drastically declines during
planting and harvesting; but also deaths, sickness, more pressing development needs or
local concerns and many other variables impact the amount of community participation
at all times during the year.
(h)    Uncertain Labor Availability. Labor availability on a given workday is also a factor
mitigating against reliable road maintenance. During workdays, communal labor groups
are typically divided among several development activities. On a given day, there may
not be enough labor available to accomplish all projects.  Routine feeder road
maintenance is particularly susceptible to this circumstance because the tasks are arduous,
repetitive and less enjoyable than, say, helping a large group construct a storage shed.
There may occasionally be too much labor, but this also poses a supervision problem.
Since the community prefers to work as a group, fifty people may be doing what ten
people should do, making it difficult to manage outputs. In either case, there is no
assurance that voluntary labor will accomplish a given set of routine maintenance tasks
or that they will do them to an acceptable standard.
(i)    Competition for Community Labor.  Demands on community voluntary labor are
escalating. Partially as a result of decentralization policies, many other sectors are
increasing their dependence on community participation. Several District Secretaries
noted that competition among projects is increasing and that communities cannot manage
to do everything asked of them exactly when it is asked of them. Voluntary labor is
called upon to construct and maintain secondary schools, pit latrines, small dams, cocoa
sheds, feeder roads, health outposts, storage facilities and other community structures as
well as respond to agricultural, civic and communal activ;ties (such as weddings,



- 54 -
Annex3-
Page 4 of 5
funerals, illness, etc.). Traditionally, communal tasks are performed one time per week,
but this too may vary depending on the season, a given community's cohesion, the
strength of community leadership and a variety of other factors. In these circumstances,
communities naturally decide priorities according to multiple factors. Income generation,
family and communal obligations and immediate problems will of course receive priority.
Performing arduous routine maintenance on a relatively functional feeder road easily slips
to the bottom of the list.
(i)    lse and Length of Road. Usage and length of feeder roads seem to influence voluntary
community participation. DFR field staff consistently noted that there is less enthusiasm
to maintain stretches of transit roads, presumably because communities may feel they are
maintaining roads used as much, or more, by others, as by themselves. It has been
easier to organize maintenance in areas where a feeder road terminates in proximity to
the community supplying the labor because the road's contribution to the community
development is more immediately evident.
(k)    Distance Between Communities.  The distance between communities also affects
maintenance activities. The length of a feeder road poses both a logistical and an
accountability problem. Communities are, in principle, assigned a length of feeder road
to maintain. If there is a great distance between two communities (e.g. approximately
six kilometers or greater) then volunteers have to consume a lot of time and energy to
reach the farthest parts of their road, and they have relatively less time to perform
maintenance activities once they reach it. It is sometimes unclear, or in dispute, which
stretch of road belongs to which community. So the tendency is that parts of the road
mid-way between communities receive less or no maintenance.
4.           Perhaps the most important point emerging from the foregoing observations is that the
road committee system is not at all self-perpetuating as the model envisions. District and village officials
certainly play a role in initially organizing road committees and in many instances make efforts to see
that they continue to operate. But it is clear that road committee effectiveness is highly dependent on
continual personal intervention of DFR field staff. The core of this dilemma is that the system relies on
voluntary community labor. It will therefore always require immense organizational efforts to keep the
system running. If this is the case, demands on field staff will not diminish, but will rapidly increase as
the NFRRMP is implemented.
5.           It is the conclusion of this analysis that the voluntary community labor approach is
extremely problematic, if not unworkable as a long-term primary strategy for routine feeder road
maintenance. Given the magnitude of expansion of the feeder road network envisioned under the
NFRRMP and the size of the Government's long-term investment in feeder road rehabilitation works,
reliance on community volunteerism cannot be recommended as a means to assure proper routine
maintenance so that the system does not rapidly deteriorate.
6.           It is recommended that routine feeder road maintenance be shifted from a voluntary to
a contractor-based system similar to the singleman contractor approach used by the Ghana Highway



- 55 -
Annex 3-5
Page 5 of 5
Authority. This obviously requires a substantial financial commitment. However, the alternative is to
rely on a voluntary system which is unreliable over the long term, leading to an inevitable deterioration
of the rehabilitated feeder roads. The question remains as to how to finance and organize routine
maintenance if it is to be reoriented to a contractor-based system. Since the Government of Ghana has
been pursuing a decentralized development strategy, the idea has been advanced that District Assemblies
must assume this task.
AF41N
November 1991
(VoComLab.NFR)



- 56 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Area Prioritization and Feeder Road Pre-Selection
A.           Introduction
1.           The poor condition of most feeder roads in Ghana has been identified as one
of the key reasons for the current low level of agricultural production. The proposed 4-year
NFRRMP will improve the condition of feeder roads from the current level of 16% "good" to
an estimated level of 30% "good" by 1996.
2.           To achieve the foregoing objective, the project is expected to focus on high
and medium agricultural potential areas in support of the MTADS. The planning system
which was developed for feeder roads includes:
(a)    prioritization of road areas;
(b)    pre-selection of feeder roads on a corridor basis based on agreed socio-
economic criteria;
(c)   socio-economic evaluation of feeder road rehabilitation; and
(d)    engineering design and preparation of bidding documents for feeder road
investment.
B.           Road Area Prioritization
3.           As a result of the limited financial resources available for feeder roads in
Ghana, prioritizing the road areas is a way of ensuring that maximum returns will be obtained
from the investment. All thirty-two (32) road areas (which include 110 administrative
districts) were prioritized using criteria developed jointly by the MTADS team of the MA and
the DFR. Criteria considered in the prioritization of road areas included the following (on a
road area basis):
(a)    agricultural production;
(b)    average transport cost;
(c)    population density; and
(d)    accessibility.
4.           Each road area's agricultural production is the sum of the value of all
agricultural commodities produced within the road area using road area production figures and



- 57 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 5
prices for major crops made available by the MA. Transport cost is the average cost of
hauling agricultural freight over a unit distance within each road area using data from the
Marketing and Credit Division of the MA. Population density was calculated using road area
level census data, and accessibility was also calculated with data on road lengths by road areas
made available from the DFR Planning Unit.
5.           Data collected on these variables for all the 32 road areas were analyzed.
Priorities were developed based on a system of weights and scores. These weights were
established considering the objectives of the MTADS and the NFRRMP following a number
of consultations of the joint MA and the DFR team. The following weights were agreed
upon:
(a)    agricultural production                        40%
(b)   transport cost;                                 30%
(c)    population density                             20%
(d)    accessibility                                  10%
6.           The agreed weights were combined into a linear function from which an index
or composite score (Fi) was derived and used to rank the road areas. The model used in
ranking the road areas is defined as follows:
Fi    =      0.4Gi + 0.3Ti + 0.2Pi + O.lAi
where the road area parameters are:
Gi    =      Agricultural Production
Ti    =      Average Transport Cost
Pi    =      Population Density
Ai    =      i/2(Ri + Ei) = Accessibility
and Ri       =     Road Area Road Density, i.e:
=     Kilometers of Feeder Roads in Road Area
Area of Road Area in sq km
and Ei          =     Extent of Maintenance Activity, i.e:
=     Length of Feeder Roads Graded or Maintained
Total Road Area Network (in km)
Subject to          :      100 > Gi, Ti, Pi, Ai > 0



- 58 -
Annex 36
Page 3 of 5
7.     The following list contains the prioritization of the 32 road areas in Ghana:
Priority Listing of Road Areas
Road Area                   Priority
Techiman *                  High
Cape Coast *                High
Sunyani *                   High
Mampong *                   High
Sefwi Wiawso                High
Bekwai *                    High
Yendi *                     Medium
Kumasi *                    Medium
Ada *                       Medium
Hohoe *                     Medium
Dunkwa *                    Medium
Wa *                        Medium
Akim Oda *                  Medium
Tamale *                    Medium
Takoradi *                  Medium
Nkawkaw                     Medium
Keta *                      Medium
Bolgatanga                  Medium
Somanya                     Medium
Tumu *                      Medium
Gambaga                     Medium
Lawra                       Low
Berekum                     Low
Tarkwa                      Low
Winneba                     Low
Ho                          Low
Bawku                       Low
Sawla                       Low
Nsawam                      Low
Axim                        Low
Accra Tema                  Low
Koforidua                   Low
Note: * Selected Road Areas for NFRRMP
(see also Map)



- 59 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
C.            Pre-Selection of Feeder Roads for Investment
8.            Following the road area prioritization, a pre-selection of feeder roads in high
and medium potential road areas was prepared with socio-economic data that were available at
the road area and settlement level for each feeder road corridor. These data include the
following:
(a)    population of settlements along feeder road corridors which were obtained
from census data of Ghana;
(b)    length and condition of the feeder roads from DFR road registers;
(c)    social services (health and education) along feeder road corridors, which is
also available from the census data; and
(d)    cost of improving or rehabilitating feeder roads to various levels of
accessibility, which was obtained from DFR's quantity surveying section.
9.            The above data were assembled for all feeder road links within the selected
road areas and used for pre-screening with the aid of a computer.
10.          The pre-selection of feeder roads for investment involved three distinct
phases. Eir, roads within 3 kilometers of protected areas were excluded. Second, the data
for each feeder road corridor were assembled into three factors, namely:
(a)    population density;
(b)    linkage to social services; and
(c)    condition of road which is closely related to cost of improving feeder roads to
required levels.
Each of the three variables was normalized and assigned a weight, giving priority to the
benefits but also weighing the costs to consider roads with bridges or large earth works.
_hir, the pre-selection done at DFR Head Office was passed on to the District Secretaries
and DFR regional engineers for comments and correction.
11.          The system of weighing and scoring emphasizes the importance of population
(50 percent), social services (30 percent) and road condition or cost (20 percent). This
procedure was used in pre-screening all feeder roads for investment under the project. In
addition, roads considered to be redundant from a network point of view or those already
included in other development projects or those in a maintainable condition were deleted.
12.           The tentative list of pre-selected roads compiled for each district together with
comments from various District Secretaries and their respective Assemblies as well as
comments from DFR regional engineers were considered in establishing a final list of pre-
selected roads.



- 60 -
Annex 3-6
Page 5 of S
13.           The pre-selected roads were subjected to detailed cost and benefit analysis to
establish a final priority ranking for investment. This process of pre-selecting roads for
investment ensures that local priorities are considered together with socio-economic factors.
AF41N
November 1991
(A=Prio.NFR)



61 -                                             Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 4
REPUBUC OP GHANA                                  AUG. 1991
NATIONAL PEEDER ROADS REHABILITAIION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
REHABLITATION OF I KM FEEDER ROAD
(ROAD WIDTH c 7.32m)
__~~~~~~~ ._ .... .  _...........   . ........... .........  ...... ........  ... . .............. ...... .._ ...........   . ...................    ................... .......... ............ .
UNIT                      Capital-lnteasive      Labour-lItenive
Item             Decription             QTY    UNIT       RATE         TOTAL            in %                  in %
Ial    Foreign       Local     Poreign
.......  ... ... .. ...... ................................ ...... ..........  ..... . ........... ..............  ....................  ..............  .................... .............  .................... .............
A.    Ckl  existingroadof                               -    -Cedis-----
Sevannsh bush                    0.80    Ha       395,122      316,097.60         46         54         98          2
B.     Clear carriageway of gras.
bush                             0.40    Ha       301,000      120,400.00         46         54         98          2
C.     Cear out and deepen existing
side(eaath dmi)                   700    m            148      103,600.00         44         56         98          2
D.    Excavate V' haped drinage
ditches                           400    m3           633      253,200.00         45         55         98          2
E.     Scadfy exisng gavel
uface of wad, she  to
crossfalle aN compact           7,320    m2            76      556,320.00         44         56         85         15
F.     Excavate sub-grade materia
f.m  boow pit, ha not
exceeding 1km, plae and
compact in low-lying areas.       500    m3         1.935      967,500.00         45         55         80         20
0.    Excavate sbgrade mata
in open cut, push, place ad
compact                           200    m3           802      160,400.00         45         55         85         15
H.    Excava unsuitable (wampy)
mterl and dipoe                   100    m3           812       81,200.00         45         55         97          3
1.     Excavate from approved pit,
gmvel sub-bwe mteri
100mm thick, bhul not
exceeding kba, place and
compact                         7,320    m2           210     1.537,200.00        44         56         55         45
J.     Extm for haulage of gave
sub-bas in excs of Ikm
(3km)                           2,635  m3/hn          130      341,232.50         44         56         44         56
K.    Provide materias nd
cosuct scour chlcs as
per drawn                           8    No.        3,000       24,000.00         98          2         98          2
L      Construct Sigle 900mm
diatr precs conrete
pipe culveat. inchding
excamto and bacfing,
formwork and conret
dwjeml ooenpbco
(ProvIio                            I    No.      795000       795,000.00         96          4         98          2
Tola wihout Contencis                           in Cedia      5,256,150.10        53         47         77         23
in USS          14,016.40      7,366      6.650     10,767      3,249
= =man=  s=mfm  .                      .. MM===   ==sue



- 62 -                                               Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 4
REPUBUC OF GHANA                                   AUG. 1991
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABIUTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
REORAVELUNG OF I KM FEEDER ROAD
(ROAD WIDTH = 7.32m)
----   ...... ............ . .......................... ... ..  . ...... .......  ....... _ ....    .... ... .... ...  _      ........ ___  
UNIT                      Capital-tnaive       labour-lntensive
Item             Dcription               QTY      UNIT      RATE         TOTAL            in %                in %
LocAl    Foreign    Local    Foreign
................ ..   .   _.... .... ..... . ........... ........ ... ....  -  --------._  -------- ....._. . ...  -------  ---  --- .   .... .   ..... . .....    ....... . ....  _ ..... .. ....  ...... ...... .
---- uedis -----
A.     Clar existing roud of
neglected bush                   6,000    m2             30     180,000.00        46         54        98          2
B.     Cklr cut and deepen existing
aide (eah; dran                  1,400     m            148     207,200.00        44         56        98          2
C.    Sca* exsting grvel surface
of rout, spe to cmbfafls
nd compact                       7,320    m2            76      556,320.00        44         56        85        is
D.    Excavat sub-grade materia
firom borrow pits, haul not
exceeding lkm, pace nd
compact in low-ing area.           100    m3          1,935     193,500.00        45         55        80         20
.      Excavte from approved pits,
gravel sub-e materil 100mm
thick, haul not exceeding lkm,
pice and compact                 7,320    m2            210    1,537,200.00       44         56        55         45
F.     Extra for haulage of gmvel
sub-hue in exces of lkm (3Mm)    2,635   m3/km        129.5     341.232.50        44         56        44         56
G.    Provide materials and conatict
scour checb as per drwings           8    No.         3,000      24,000.00        98          2        98         2
L      Constwt single 900mm dineer
precast concet pipe culvert,
inclding excavation and
bwckfilling. fowmwork and
concrete munwnd compide
(Provialona)                      0.75    No.       795.000     596,250.00        96          4        98         2
Tota wiout Contingencies                         in Cedis      3,635,702.50       53         47        72         28
in USS          9,695.21     5,142      4,553     6,962      2.734
====an=         n==   ===G=   no==   ==mm=



- S3 -
Annex 3-7
Page 3 of 4
REPUBIIC OF GHANA                                              AUG. 1991
NAThoNAL FEEDER ROADS REHABIUTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SPOT IMPROVEMENT &
RESHAPING OF I KM FEEDER ROAD
(ROAD WIDTh - 7.32m)
UNIT                       CapitalI-n ive         labour-rnmive
Itcm             Dc-Tion                  QTY      UNIT    RATE         TOTAL              In %                  in %
Locl    Feo       }    cal      Pp
----Cedis----
A.     Clear exng rood of
neglected busb                    6,000    m2          30       180,000.00         46          54         98          2
B.     Cla out and deepen exitin
side (caith) dnlm                 1,400    mo          148      207,200.00         44          56         98          2
C.     BIede. gavel uafe to
croa falle and compact            5,850    m2          33       193.050.00         44          56         85         15
D.     Scailfy exit  gavel swface
of rood, &hope to croflls
ed cmpact                         1.500    m2          76       114.000.00         44          56         85         15
E.     Excaat  ub-gade materl
from borrow pit, haul not
exceding 1km ple and
compat in low-ling ares.            100    m3        1,93S      193.500.00         44          56         55         45
F.     Provide materials and coneuct
acour chec  amper dmwiAp              8    No.       3.000       24,000.00         98           2         98          2
Total wltouCondtgence                             inCediC       911,750.00         46          54         84          16
in US$          2,431.33      1,114       1.317      2.054        377
"asta=ct    =-M        Ws=Mu          m===         mm===



- 64 -
Annex 3-7
Page 4 of 4
REPUBUC OF GHANA                                                      AUG. 1991
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABIUTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION OF I NO. SINGLE DIAMTER
900 mm PIPE CULVERT (7.32 m)
UNIT                        Capital-latensive      Labour-Inteive
Item              Description             QTY    UNIT        RATE         TOTAL              in *                  WX
Local    Foreign      Local      Forein
----Cedis----
A.      Trencb excavation                  12     m3          1,600        19,200.00         95           5         98           2
B.      50mm thick coret blinding          10     m2          1,615        16,150.00         94           6         98           2
C.      Provide lay md joint 900mm
dameter P.C. pipes                  8      m         38,500      308,000.00          95           5         95           5
D.      Concete (1:3:6-38mm agg.) in
bed ad surronmda including
fomnwork complete                  8      m3         34,200      273,600.00          94           6         98          2
a       Concrte (1:2:4-20mm sgg.) in
wmngwall headwalH and aprns         2     m3         39,000       78,000.00          94           6         98           2
F.      Sawn founwork to vettical sides
ofwall$                            18     m2          1.020        18,360.00         98           2         98           2
0.      Excate trzoidal dains
by bml                            60      m3           750        45,000.00          98           2         98           2
H.      FMlltoculvertapproaches           320     m3          1.935       619,200.00         45          55         65          35
1.     Extm for haulage of fll
,0-20 kn)                        640    m3/km         129.5        82,880.00         44         5           44         56
L.     Exta for baulge of aggregat
and and (20-100 kmn)             350    m31km          112        39,200.00          44         56          44         56
Total withu Contigencies                          in Cedi       1,499,590.00         70         30          79         21
in USS           3,N08.91       2,803      1,196       3,174        825
=-w1t5G      ===,  -       _.-=    ==E,,   _,,,_



- 65 -
Annex 3-8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Status of Domestic Construction Industry
A.    Classification of Domestic Contractors
1.    The list of registered A, B, and C class domestic contractors as of August 1991,
including the value of contracts they are registered for, is as follows:
No. of      Value of      Type of
Class                Contractors   Contracts      Work
Al                     4           no-limit     Equipment-
A2                     10          C800m        based
A3                     71          C400m        Road Maintenance
A4                     61          C150m        and Rehabilitation
Total "A" Class-      146
BI                     5           no-limit     Bridges
B2                     15          c300m        and
B3                    104          C150m         Culverts
B4                    186          c 60m
Total "B" Class -     310
C                      47          C125m        Labor-based
Road Rehab.
Total "A","B" & "C" - Q
2.     Class "A" contractors are registered for roads, airports and related structures; class
"B" contractors for bridges, culverts, and other structures; and class "C" contractors for
labor-intensive road and culvert works. Class "A" contractors are most essential for the road
sub-sector. However, it would not be justified to assume that the road sub-sector would
provide continuous work for all the 146 registered class "A" contractors. It is therefore
necessary that future efforts to develop local construction capacity should focus on a realistic
assessment of demanded capacity based on a number of good performing class "A"
contractors rather than the present large number of 146 contractors. The screening of good
performing contractors could be done through a detailed assessment of individual contractors
evaluating their problems and constraints.
3.     Class "C" contractors were recently developed by DFR for low volume, low cost
feeder roads; for sections of roads where road site materials are suitable for formation
construction and rehabilitation; and where surfacing materials can be obtained within a short
haulage distance. Presently, these contractors are not expected to carry out structural works



- 66 -
Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 4
except small culverts. They are appropriate for small and scattered works which would not
attract the class "A" contractors.
B.    Road Sub-Sector Stabilization Program
4.    Ghana has 14,400 km of trunk roads and 21,300 km of feeder roads. About 6,000
km of trunk roads are bitumen-surfaced and the remaining 8,400 km are laterite gravel-
surfaced roads. Out of the 21,300 km of feeder roads, only 3,600 km are in a maintainable
condition.
5.    In support of the country's ERP, GHA which is responsible for trunk roads,
developed a road network stabilization program in 1987 with a target of improving the
condition of the trunk roads to 69% good, 21 % fair and 10% poor by 1997. GHA is making
all efforts to meet the stabilization program objective. In 1991 the condition mix was about
29% good compared to 229% in 1987; 32% fair compared to 42 % in 1987; and 39% poor
compared to 36% in 1987. From 1987 to 1991, the percentage of good condition roads has
increased by 7% and the percentage of fair condition roads reduced by 10%, while the poor
condition roads have increased by 3%. Overall this shows a slippage in the stabilization
program.
6.    The increase of roads in poor condition enta,ls higher investment cost to meet the road
network stabilization program. GHA plans to revise the stabilization program in 1992 to
reflect realistic physical targets and financial requirements in meeting the road condition mix
planned to be achieved by 1997. However, because of the magnitude of the required effort,
the program period might have to be extended to 1998/99.
7.    In 1981, when DFR was established, almost all of the 21,300 km of feeder roads
were in poor to very poor condition. From 1983-1991, DFR has rehabilitated about 3,600
km which are now in an all season motorable condition. Assisted by the World Bank and
other donor agencies, DFR has developed the NFRRMP which aims at rehabilitation of 8,400
km of feeder roads by 1999, bringing the total motorable feeder road network to 12,000 km.
8.    The magnitude of the above trunk and feeder road programs, plus the urban road
rehabilitation/improvement program under urban projects requires large construction capacity.
A large portion of the rehabilitation and maintenance program requires a well developed local
construction industry capacity because of the type of work, the geographically scattered nature
of the works and the lower standards required on feeder roads which are less attractive to
international contractors.
9.    GHA, DFR and DUR have adopted the strategy of contracting out almost all
rehabilitation, improvement and periodic maintenance works and a good portion of routine
and recurrent maintenance operations. By doing so they have maintained force account
operations at a small scale and limit them to activities which are not easily adaptable to
contracting.
10.   The move from force account to contracting of road works necessitated the
development of the local construction industry. Under the Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (RRMP 1985-1991), GOG started to provide foreign exchange loans to
45 contractors on an on-lending basis for purchase of equipment and spare parts. DFR,
supported by donor agencies such as IDA, UNDP and ILO, has trained 27 labor-based
contractors who were provided with foreign exchange loans for purchase of light equipment
and tools.



- 67 -
Annex 3-8
Page 3 of 4
C.    Past Performance and Problem Areas
11.   Over the past five years the "A" and "B" class contractors have participated in GHA,
DFR and DUR road contract works up to about 40% of all contract values and about 60% of
the km-length of road works carried out by contract. Single-man contractors (SMC) are
carrying out over 50% of the routine road maintenance works. The 'A" and "B" class
contractors are starting to play a significant role in the overall economic development of the
country and GOG's efforts in developing local construction industry capacity has started to
pay off.
12.   About forty contractors are presently participating in resealing and regravelling
contracts under the IDA financed TRP-1 (1988-1992). They bave completed works or 1,620
km of trunk roads. Contractor quality of regravelling work has been satisfactory ever though
there was a need for more than normal supervision and quality control. However, on
resealing works, almost all contractors have found it difficult to meet the required quality
standards. Assessment of the production capacity of the contractors, in 1991 reveals that
works were completed on average at twice the period specified in the original contracts.
13.   The contractors' problems both in quality and time of completion of contracts can be
grouped into the following nine problem areas:
(a)   insufficient planning and programming capacity for contract work from
mobilization to execution of works, mainly due to lack of experience and
educational level of company managers;
(b)   failure to recognize the advantage of employing capable and experienced
project managers and key field supervisory staff;
(c)   failure to recognize the advantage of paying sufficient incentives to work
crews based on production;
(d)    poor logistical support for materials, supplies, spare parts and maintenance
and repair of equipment;
(e)   low priced bids which resulted in shortage of operating funds and inability to
complete road works;
(f)    government delay in payment during certain periods of the year;
(g)    shortage of foreign exchange for purchase of additional equipment and spare
parts;
(h)    high financial risks in paying back loans due to extreme devaluations of the
cedi and very high loan interest rates; and
(i)    unfavorable commercial lending practices by BHC.
14.   In the past two to three years the local construction industry capacity has been on the
decline such that, unless provisions are made to support the industry in areas of identified
problems and constraints listed above, implementation of road work programs could be
adversely affected. It is therefore essential for the Government to undertake a careful
assessment of the industry and based on findings to develop a strategy and a plan of action to
develop the capacity of the required number of good performing contractors. The project



- 68 -
Annex 3-8
Page 4 of 4
provides 18  /rn consultant services for a local construction industry assessment and
development study. TOR for such services are provided in Annex 4-8.
AF4IN
November 1991
(Conlndus.NFR)



- 6s -
Annex 3-9
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DFR Road Work Accomplishments 1983 - 1990
Rehabilitation
by Region
Region        Road Area   Total Feeder            (to end 90) (km
Road Network
(in km)             Labor Equipment
Based   Based
Greater Accra Accra/Tema       482
Ada             335    817                     100
Volta         Ho               455
Hohoe         1,099
Keta            794  2,348                     142
Eastern       Koforidua        388
Naawam          247
Oda             495
Somanya         190
Nkawkaw         995  2,315            14       214
Central       Cape Coast       880
Winneba         805
Dunkwa          296  1,981                      82
Western       Takoradi         581
Tarkwa        1,006
Sefwi Wiaswo    631
Axim            121  2,339           282       478
Ashanti       Kumasi         1,534
Bekwai          955
Mampong         839  3,328            61       168
Brong-Ahafo   Sunyani        1,102
Berekum         887
Techiman      1,368  3,357            53       462
Northern      Tamale           943
Gambaga         521
Yendi           627
Sawia           290  2,381                     330
Upper East    Bolgatanga       639
Bawku           313    952                      64
Upper West    Wa               677
Lawra           496
Tumu            275  1,448                    260
Totals                             21,266           410    2,300
WORKS DONE BY OPERATION BETWEEN 1983 AND 1990
---------------------------------------------
YEAR      REHAB. REGRAVELING    RESHAPING    CULVERTS
kcm      km            km            No.
1983         100      30          1,920              39
1984         150      55          1,520              37
1985          65       0            245               3
1986         130     320            750              62
1987         305     590            590             224
1988         450     630          1,095             480
1989         505     260            180             276
1990       1,005     425            770             292
2,710   2,310         7,070           1,413



N REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND SOURCES
(Cedis Million)
1983 - 1991
CENTRAL      ROAD    COCOA              IDA      USAID   IDA           CEDIS  EXCHANGE    USS
YEAR     BUDGET       FUND     FUND    IFAD PAMSCAD        APPP CRP/TRP         MILLION   RATE    MILLION
1983      526        -        -        -         -        -        -            526       90      5.84
1984      738        -        -        -         -        -        -            738       90      8.20
1985        -        -       30        -         -        -        -             30       90      0.30
1986      512      207      112        -         -        -        -            831      140      5.94
1987      400      322      677        -         -        -        -          1,399      190      7.36
1988      660      380    2,400        -         -        -        -          3,440      230    14.96
1989      230      915    1,758      288        77      139      356          3,763      300    12.54
1990      564      817    2,495      700       432    1,200      575          6,783      350    19.38
(est.)    1991      450    1,275    2,500       500      300    1,200    1,310          7,535      375    20.10        1
Notes:
1.  The above table contains capital expenditures and sources of funding for feeder roads only; cocoa roads
form part of the feeder road network;
2.   Central Budget and Road Fund are Government funding sources.  The Cocoa Fund comes under the Ghana Cocoa
Board (CocoBod);
3.  Numbers for 1991 are estimates.
(D n
m x
o w
-o



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
FEEDER ROAD NETWORK EXPANSION 1992-1999 (in KN)
........ ......................................................... ......................  ..................................... ........................................
Description                                                             C A L E N D A R   Y E A R S
- In km -                           1992      1993      1994      1995     1996      1997      1998      1999
................ ................ ... ......... ........ ....... ........... .......... ... .......  .......... ... ....... ...... .... .. ...........
1.   Feeder Roads Fully Rehabilitated
under Maintenance                              3,600   4,800   6,000   7,200   8,400   9,600  10,800  12.000
....... ............ .............. ......................... ...... .. . ......  ....... .. ........ ... ........  ............. ....... .......
11.  Feeder Roads to be Regravelted                     450      600       800    1,000    1,200    1,400    1.600    1.800
........... ................. ............... .............. . ...... ..... ... ....... ... ...... ... ...... ... ......... ....... .......
1. Feeder Road Rehabilitation under:
(i)    PAMSCAD                                    150       100
(Cf)  COCOA Road Rehabilitation
a) IDA & COCOA FUND                       400       400       200
b) ADF & COCOA FUND                       450       400       200         -
Clii) NFRRNP-1
(IDA/USAID/DANIDA/GOG)                    200       300       800    1.200
CIv)  NFRRNP-2 (tentative)                   I                                   -   1,200    1,200    1,200
SUBTOTAL FULL REHABILITATION                    1,200    1.200    1,200    1,200    1.200    1,200    1,200
(v)   Spot Improvements uider NFRRMP              180       180      180       180       260      260       260
TOTAL U0RKS                                    1,380    1,380    1,380    1,380    1.460    1,460    1,460
....... ............................. ............... ...... .. ...... .. ...... .. ...... .. ...... .. ...... .. ...... .. .......
Rehabilitation Works:
Labour-Based LCB: 1,000 km x 10,000/km * US$ 10.0 N.
CapitaL-Based LCB:   400 km x 18,000/km a USS  7.2 N.
Capital-Based ICS: 1,100 km x 23,000/km - US# 25.3 N.
2,500 km      costing       US$ 42.5 N. in Terms of Base Cost
US$ 42.5 M/2,500 km * US$ 17,000/km in Term of Base Cost



mEiiIZK Ol' GIANA
1adaul f.st R3b 3mW          . ad Ml        to"es
a,n Wab Cad   R
Teadl Pnmm t992 - 1999
TOTAL                   YEAR I MY 199WUNE IM9                 YEAR 2.* JULY 199MUNE 1994            YEAR 3: JULY 199UE 1995
C05314ENT                                             LOC      TAXES  FORBO   TOTAL   LUCAL  TAXES  FORM    TOTAL    LOCAL  TAXES  FOREDO   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES   OREIG   TOTAL
NATONAL FEEDERU3AIO S DEVE Or    PROGRAM (99199)
O Wa O*b - AD flChcedJ
I.M ilebmi         et_om
ILCvkd4mm"Cfe0.o3br                                          49.79     7.5L     51W7     108.23      7.11     1 m      7.27     Ism        7.11    128       7.27     35.46      7.11     1 A      7.27     15.46
b L.h.C       amm0a(32113h1                                 2353      235      7.73      33.61     J3.6     034       1.10      4.0       3.36    034       1.10      4.        3.36    0.34      1.10      4 3
9Aht1PO RdaMhusk.byCodst                                     73.31     9.93     58.0      141.84    10.47     1.42     8.37      21.26     10.47    3.42      8.37     2026     10.47     1.42      337     2026
2. hdGaic Mah8mm b Cmab
a. Rgsot rc ,uw PeW5                                         28.53    434      29.15      622        13.2    0.28     3.6        3.96      2.n     0.37      2.47      5.27      3.25    0.49      3.32      7.06
*sdau hdaimamby                                              28.53     4.34     29.135     62.02      .82     0.28     2.86       3.96     2.42     0.37      2.47      5.27     3.25     0.49      3.32     7.06
3. SPe viau-dum   by C-
a. spo,mAC4v. CciwO.380h)w                                    7.47    0.n3      2.18      10.38     0.9      0.09     0.26       1.24      0.89    OD9       0.26      1.24     0.89     09        0.26      124
Sbcb3Spot kpM2.4vs.byCAWg                                    7.4      0.73      2.18      1038      0.89     em9      0.26       14       0.89    009        0.26      1.24     989      0.09      0         1.24
4. RualbMecmy Cat
a.uGIDs.hCaah                                                 l.17    025       0.18       3.3      0.21     om       0.l        024       0.29    0.02      0.02      0.33     037      om        0.02      0.42
b. Chwhe                                                      2.27    0.28      0.13       2.5S      0.15    001      0.03       0.17      0.21    002       0.03      0.24      0.27    0.02      0C2       0.30
c.  a      t                                                  2.27    0.38      0.13       258       0.15    0.03     0.01       0.17      0.21    02       03       0.24      0.27    002       0.02      0.30
t. Felsom ?udf                                                3.23     0.26     0.18       3.67      0.22     0.02    O0]        0.25      0.30     0.02     002       0.34      0.38    om        om 2      0.3
b                    cby                                     10.94     0.87      0.62      12.43     0.74     0.06     0.04      0.84      3.0      0.08     0.0        1.15     2.23     0.10      00       1.45
S. Rea      M by C.waJ  AcoJ     t
a. 3R t byCeeuc                                               3.84    0.69      5.32       9.85     027      005      038        0.70      0.37    0.07      0.5       0.94      0.46    Om       0.63      1.17
b. 3   ly9moA=                                                3.9     0.4       4.97       9.21     0.13     002      0.28       0.33      0.26    0AS       0.36      0.6       0.3     em        053       0.99
S     _    b    _     ebCm                                    7.43     1.33      0.29      19.       0.40     0.07     0.56       3.03     0.62     0.11     0o6        I02      0.84     0.15      1.17     2.16
BASENATIONAL FEEDE ROADS DEVELOP8'ENT FROG. OSTF               1279    17.20    3IOC.Z      245.74     14.33     1.91    11.10     27.34     35.42    2.07     12.03     29.51     16.74    2.5      13.19     32.18
m3HSIALCO     aThIGENE                                         12.77     .72      30.08     04.57      1.43    0.39      1.11      2.73      1.54    0.22      1.0       2.95      1.67    0J3       1.32      3.22
W2RI CONT608IElES                                              21.49     2.90     16.29     4161       1.13    0.15     0.37       1.5       157     021       05        2.3       2.20    0.30      2C9       358
TOTALNATIAL FEE3a ROADS DEVELOPM824   WO. LME                  161.95    21.82    127.22    310.99     16.90     2.26    12.57     31.73     I53       2.48     13.82    34.83     2D.61     2.77     15.3D    38.98
>'3
ID  XD
01



REPURMOPOHNA
TEdP"amm 1992 -1999
YEAR4 JULY 1993-jUNE 1996             YEAR5: JIULY 1996iE 1997              YEAR  JtJLY 19974UNE 199              YEAR?7 JULY 199JUNE 399
a)8N80ENT                                             LOCAL  TAXES  FORO   TOTAL   LOC                TAXES  FOREIO   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES  FORMG   TOTAL   LAL  TAXES  FORM    TOTAL
NATIONAL FEEDE  ROADS EVELPM1   3'ROG39919991
03lwa9WbO  - A1IC.mD
3. Fkd RcbB =byO Com
a. CipCb0-OUbe3                                               tl       I 7.13  357  27 .  5.46     7tl       157       727      15.46     7.11     LOS       727      I5.45     7.11     3.x       727      15.46
b, Lab _&mmft C     _lZm O,3W kW                              336      0.34      3.30     4.80      336      034       1.10     4.80      336      034       1.10     4.90      336      0.34      1.10     4.80
SwFd13 cbMud3   tyCatag                                       10.47    1.0       837      2D.26     10.47     1.42     837      2026      10A7      1.42     837      2316      30.47     1.42     L37      2026
L.  I   Mdft     by Cwlxm
.8w_Concea o850ba                                            4<5      0DA2       4.13     B.D       4.85     074       4.96     10.54     5.67     0.86      s.79    32.33      6.47     0.9       6.61     34.06
SIdlEd     a        _u. w by cc                               4as      0.2a      4.33      8D        4.85    0.74      4.96     3034       3S7     086       5.79     12.33      6.47    0.3       6.61     14.06
3. Si bq--u-0DwA-by Cr
4S. sp.o d,tD D.c -    O3 m bn                                0m2      01       02         1.27     129      0.33      03s       1.79     1.29     0.13     033       1.79      329      0.1u     038        1.79
fd SpoAt hoo        2      . by C-                            0.92    O09        0.27      127       129     0.13      033       1.79      1.29    0.33      033       1.79      t2s     0.13      038       3.79
4. R          bmt Ma   by Cmua
. G=w.imbCwb                                                  0.45     0.04     0m        0.53      0.53     0.4      o0m3      o.AD     o03       O.S      0.03      0.3       0.70     o6       0.04      0.79
b. M bC s                                                     0.32     0.03     0m02      0.37      038    o03        002       0.43      0.44     0.04     o03       0t        Om       0.04     0         0.57
.C rd      __                                                 032      0.0       0.02     0.37      038      0.03    o0m        0.43      0.44     0.04     om        050      o05       0.04     om        037
d        .Pw abtm P  d                                        0.46     044       0m       0.2m      0.54     004      0G        0.42      0.6      0.A     O4        071       0.71    0G36      0414      oil
StbowlRattim naW3ieby C _at                                    1.55    0.12      009       1.76      1.3     0.15      0.30      2.       21.2     0.17      0.12      2.43      2.41    0.19      0.14      2.73
S. Rbn  MMbyCw&JFm AroMa
a. 3z bycmm                                                   0.55     0.30     0.76       3.43     0.64     .33       0.89     13.64     0.73     0.13      131       3.       0.82     0.15      1.14     2.11
b. bdap&sby Fam Arom                                          0.51     0Si       0.73      1.32     0.4      0.32     0.89      3.64      0.77     0.34      107      3.97      0.99     0.16      1.24     230
Sa3 RwmUW MAWwn  by CoSiJFPA                                   1.s     0.39      1.47      2.72      1.28    023       1.77      3.29      A s     027       2.0       385       1.72    031       2.38      4.41
BASE NATIONAL FEERDROADS DEVELOPM4ENT PROO. COST                l2.5      2.44     14.33     34M2     19.73     266      i58       37.97    216       2.5      16.74    40.64      236      3.m3     17B8     43.27
sIIYUCALCNTINOENCIES                                            I3.      0.24      1.43     3.48      1.97     0.27     1356      3410      2.11     03        3.67     446       224      0.3       1.79     4.33
PR3 CONr)N   GNlCIES                                            2.93     0.40      1.93     536       3.56     0.48      2.97     701       4.52     0.63      4A4      9.16      .59      0.76      530     31.6
TOTAL NATIONAL FE      RROADS DiEVELOPMENT ROO. cxir            22.38    318       17.70     43.56    2526      3.40     2D.12     48.78    27.8      3.74     22.45     53.J7    30.19    413       24.96     5924
oQl
G   34
0I



OyUW~ Pau  3911Z-359
IOCAL  TAXES  FOM   TOAL                                                   UXD3A1CNG
IDA     0O0                                                              ASSUMED
MATmNAL FEE  ROADS ECVEmLOIwr PROGRAM (2199!              (USMMOW)    Ft        14 NFRi4    3.F.   000  UtSD  DNIDA  OPEC   AIDF  IDA    GO0    IDA        SOI3lE   FtNt3
XMWabOb  - A         UDCr                                              Neab        * 1&2    &C.S.   3.3                              ClP    CS.  PANSA  FUNDG   GO
1. 3S V_wby_
&.C          _    Ob0I,                          62.72   9.     43.4    135.70    69.4<  5s4    0 o0m    0n    0n    s5    6Oil  12.35   3.9         4.V3    117.0   IBM
3. ldat.Cw_  O,343bu)                            21.64   2.9f    9.44    42.2     0404                 2.00    32.    0       3.     65       0 9.64    42h  0D0    sm    Om    I=  lie    om  30 641.43  O0
MaalFi3l&ubC_tt                                  92.36   32.51   7343    177.94   W.    MAC    04    1243    12.4    sim   304    19 43    Go        4.7 4  1S9       39.24
2.  ~uhmcm tgcamlm
a.v g   3t G Wa (333                             3647    5.56   3733    79.51    D3M    253   0om    9.D    6.60   S.0    om    o0m    om           0om      O9m     10.51
t     eMaaCsh                                    36.57   5.56    3733    79.53    23.X   7543   o0m    9.0    6.40   5so    O0       on   o0         o 0.    am       t051
3.S1j0&wwwAmd.um yC- g
ILu S  W     Cuomo (3.)kw                         9.4   0.92    .75    13.15   0o    o0m    043   12.0    c0          04.3    om     om 3    0om            122D 3.95"
_     * Spot  _tM-*       byC-                    9.40   0.92    2.75    13.15    0we    0om    o0   312.3    043   o0        o      om    om       Gm      12.3     0.95
4. 3 t a _by
ILa.                                             4       0.32    0.3     4.91     oiw    0.00   4.    04D   o0m    o04        Om    o04     Om om             4.0   o m
b. D (e_,                                         2.91   0.3    0.17     330    0em    o0m    3.m 0    04      043    043    CAD   043    043       om       330    o043
C. (3n C                                          2.91   0.23    6.17     330    o00    043    330   043    043    omD  o04          043    043      O0      3.3      043
4. VgibSpd   I                                    4.13   0.33    0.3      4.3 e    43  0om    443   o04    o0m    o04        043   o04    o0m        om 0.64 o.4
-tW R     M       by Cat                         1440    1.11    053    3U.91     4A   o0D   15S39  o04        o0m     043   o04    o0 O 043         om      153.9    o0m
5. _a,M tdmav wcJFmm Ao
. bb A                                            4.91    Om    640      12.9     om    o04    12.51  o04      om    O04      om     om o04          043    12.51     om
b       y F    hmAc                              443    03      6.43    1139     0m    o0    313   o0m    o04    o0          om o0  0      o04      043    1338     o0
dRm1 t3 Mat,%b CJFPA                              954   3.73   1332    24.47      040    00    2432   043      0m    o04    o04      04     0o4      o       2432     0.15
TOTAL tATEDNAL FlEE   ROAMS DEVELO3I FRO0. COST   I4.95   23J2   127.32   310.99    92.    4543   4021   33A4     94m   3om    l0m 3 1943    6m        4.90    DiL      3.0
Notes:
1.  IDA NFRRMP 162:  First and Second National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Projects
2.  COG R.F.& C.B.:  Government of Ghana Road Fund and Capital Budget;
3.  COG R.B.:                   Government of Ghana Recurrent Budget;
4.  GOG C.F.:                   Government of Ghana Cocoa Fund;
5.  Assumed Secured Funding:  It has been assumed that IDA, USAID, DANIDA and OPEC would contribute the same amounts   w a
for civil works under the second feeder roads project as under the first one.  GOG R.F.and C.B.
has been decreased while GOG R.B. would cover all routine and recurrent maintenance  costs.                                                            o 1
Funds under ADF, IDA, CRP and GOG C.F. only contribute to the ongoing Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project.



- 75 -
Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DFR Equipment Status
1.    DFR's strategy for execution of road works is to continue using contractors for
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and portion of the routine maintenance operations.
However, there will be need for DFR to continue using force account units to a limited extent
for pothole filling, spot patching, and recurrent road surface blading. DFR has established
Spot Improvement and Maintenance (SIAM) and Mobile Repair and Maintenance
(MOREMAT) units to carry O"f force account operations. The MOREMAT units are
engaged in emergency repair and heavy blading works to restore priority access roads for
which the communities provide fuel and accommodation for the grader and truck operators.
Communities have been encouraged to contribute labor and fuel for the SIAM and
MOREMAT units to repair access roads of community priorities. DFR will continue to use
these units both for recurrent maintenance operations and community priority road repair
works.
2.    The following table provides DFR's equipment requirements, existing, to be replaced
and those to be purchased under NFRRMP. The list was assembled on the basis of a
preliminary maintenance performance and budgeting system (MPBS) developed during the
project pre-appraisal. It will be refined based on the detailed MPBS which will be developed
by consultants financed under NFRRMP. DFR's force account operation involvement will be
periodically reviewed depending on experience of maintenance by contract and extent the
equipment is being utilized by the community.
3.    At present DFR is establishing three regional workshops and, it has started
recruitment and training of mechanics to operate the workshops assisted by an expatriate
mechanical specialist financed under the PPF provided for NFRRMP. Two mechanical
specialists will continue their services for 24 months and will assist DFR in establishing
additional workshops in other regions. To ensure adequate provision for the maintenance and
repair of the force account equipment fleet, the project provides funds for workshop
equipment and tools and spare parts (see following table).



- 76 -                                              Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Feeder Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment. Tools and Spare Parts
To Be       Balance    Require-     Estimated
Item description    Requirement   Existing    Replaced     Existing    ment           cost
________________  ________   NFRRMP    US$ '000
1. Dozer                     5              2           1            1           4          240
2. Loader                    4              4           1            ,           1           70
3. Grader                   32             84          12        -(40)           0            0
4. Roller                   1S             14           5            9           6          240
5. Pedestrian Roller        68             43          10           33          20          260
6. Tractor                 120            107          37           70          50          262
7. Water Tanker             34             45           0           45           0            0
8. Water Pump               34             32           2           30           2            5
9. Lowbed Loader             2              2           1            1           1           90
10. Tipper Truck            55             47           2           45           0          450
11. Motor Cycles           100             58          30           28          72          150
12. Four Wheel
Drive                   21             23          13           10          11          240
Vehicle
13.Pick up                  6(0            71          31           40          20          320
14. Sedan                   10              8           4            4           6           90
15. Mobile Radios           47             11           0           11          36          350
16. Wkshop Equipmt                                                                          600
17. Wkshop Tools                                                                             50
18. Road Maint.,
Hand Tools assorted                                                                         300
19. Spar Parts                                                                            1,000
TOTAL          4,717
AF4IN
Novenber 1991
(Eqipmcnt.NFR)



- 77 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Organization and Management Study
Terms of Reference
A.           Introduction
1.           The Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) of the Ministry of Roads and
Highways (MRH) is responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
country's feeder roads. There are a total of 21,900 km of classified feeder roads in Ghana.
Over the last two decades feeder roads have severely deteriorated due to lack of maintenance,
to the extent that most of the roads are inaccessible even in dry seasons. Since its
establishment in 1981 DFR has grown steadily, and from 1983 to 1991 it has rehabilitated
about 4,000 km of feeder roads. DFR's plan is to rehabilitate an additional 8,000 km from
1992 to 1999 bringing the total rehabilitated feeder road network to 12,000 km.
2.           The Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) which comes also under MRH is
responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the country's trunk roads.
There are a total of 14,430 km of trunk roads of which 6,000 are paved and the remaining
8,430 are gravel surfaced. GHA, which was re-organized in 1974 as an authority is
institutionally well established and adequately staffed. It has well developed organization and
management, and maintenance performance and budgeting systems.
3.           DFR which is a comparatively young agency, has its Head Office in Accra
and 10 regional and 32 road area offices covering its country-wide responsibility for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads. Establishment of workshops has started in
four regions and the future plan is to establish additional workshops on a need basis. Almost
all of the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works are carried out by contract. DFR
plans to contract routine maintenance activities to single-man contractors (SMC or length-man
system). DFR's institutional capacity has developed to the present level without a formal
Organization and Management (O&M) study. The Government now realizes the need for
such a study based on DFR's institutional development to cope with the fast growing
responsibility.
4.           Government has applied for IDA assistance to finance a National Feeder
Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (NFRRMP) and IDA has provided funds from
a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Part of the funds v l be used for carrying out an O&M
study to strengthen the institutional capability of DFR. 1L' .se TOR are for the consultant
services to carry out this study.
B.           Objectives
S.           The objectives of the consultant services under these TOR are to:



- 78 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 4
(a)    determine the most app.ropriate legal instrument to provide DFR with
sufficient autonomy for efficient management and monitoring of its operations;
(b)    develop the most appropriate organizational structure for both headquarter and
field levels for DFR to efficiently manage and monitor its operations;
(c)    determine DFR's work load and level of distribution of civil works between
force account and contract to attain a cost effective performance;
(d)    develop job classifications, job descriptions and staffing requirements for DFR
both at headquarters and field levels taking full account of its increasing
responsibility in feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance;
(e)    develop an appropriate salary scale for each of the job classifications based on
a salary scale review of similar jobs in public agencies and the private sector;
and
(f)    determine DFR's staffing requirements and training needs over the coming
five years to match its increasing work load.
C.            Scope of Consultant Services
6.            The consultant shall study DFR's requirements in organizational structure,
management of its operations, level of autonomy and staff training and recommend
improvements for DFR to operate more efficiently. The consultant shall review all available
studies and identify strength and weaknesses of the present organizational set up. The
consultant shall carry out the study in consultation with responsible Government officials and
senior DFR staff. The consultant shall carry out, inter alia, the following:
(a)    review th- existing organizational structure and the preliminary O&M study
carried out in October 1990 and recommend the most appropriate
organizational structure for DFR headquarter and field levels;
(b)    review DFR's feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance work program for
the coming five years and assess availability of sufficient private sector
contracting capacity to carry out the program;
(c)    assess and recormmend the most cost effective distribution of civil works
between force account and contract; and distribution of engineering design and
contract supervision services between departmental force and consultant
services;
(d)    develop job classifications, job descriptions and staffing requifements of DFR
to effectively implement the program based on work distribution determined
under (c) above;
(e)    review DFR's present functional and administrative relationship with MRH
and other relevant Government agencies including relationship with the 110



- 79 -
Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 4
political districts and 10 regional administrations and recommend
improvements to be made including autonomy to be provided to DFR and
thereby to ensure efficiency in DFR's performance;
(f)   review policies and procedures DFR is required to follow in procurement;
personnel management including hiring, firing and promotion; and utilization
of funds and other resources; and based on the results of the assessment,
recommend level of authority to be provided to DFR in the stated areas to
ensure efficiency and cost effective implementation of the program;
(g)    determine DFR's staff training requirements and the interim institutional
support requirements and develop a training program leading to self-
sufficiency of DFR to carry out its responsibilities;
(h)   review present salary scales of DFR, other Government agencies and the
private sector in the fields of DFR staff; assess its impact on performance and
in close consultation with relevant Government Ministries rezommend a
revised salary scale for the different job classifications.
7.           The consultant, based on his findings will prepare recommendations on the
most appropriate organizational establishment of DFR including the option of establishing a
semi-autonomous Feeder Road Authority (GFRA) similar to GHA. The consultant shall
specify the advantages of the recommended organizational establishment. The consultant's
recommendations shall include DFR's authorities in planning and programming feeder roads
development and maintenance; internal administration of personnel, budget and other
resources; and procurement of works, goods and services.
D.           Data and Services to be provided by Client
8.           DFR will furnish relevant study reports and information on its present
organizational structure; salary structure; personnel management; budget processing and
procurement policy requirements; position classification and status of staffing; etc. DFR will
also make available office space at its headquarters for consultant's personnel. The consultant
shall provide his own secretarial services and office supplies. DFR will provide the necessary
vehicles. DFR will establish an O&M coordination and review committee that will assist the
consultant in obtaining relevant information from Government agencies and that will
periodically review the status of the study as well as assess the approach and practicability of
the consultant's proposals.
9.           The consultant will review the organizational structure of GHA and O&M
studies carried out for the establishment of GHA including the proclamation establishing GHA
and assess its advantages over that of the present DFR establishment.
E.           Staffing and Time Schedule
10.          It is envisaged that to carry out the above assignment, the consultant will
provide 3 experts who, as a team, should have the following skills:



- 80 -
Annex 4-2
Page 4 of 4
(a)    a senior public works expert (civil engineer) with considerable experience in
management of public works agencies including relevant experience in Africa;
(b)    an organization and methods specialist with similar experience as in (a) above;
and
(c)    a road construction and maintenance work programming and execution
specialist, with adequate experience in road work execution by force account
and contract including supervision requirement in the two methods of
execution of works, in particular road maintenance by contract.
11.          The consultant shall prepare and submit inception and final reports. The
report submission, review schedules and copies to be provided are as follows:
(a)   Inception Report (10 copies): within four weeks of commencement of work in
Ghana. In the report, the consultant should outline his preliminary findings, an
outline of the forms of organization to be studied and proposed approach and
schedule for the remainder of his assignment;
(b)    Draft Final Report (10 copies): within three months after receiving comments
on the Inception Report;
(c)    Final Report (25 copies): within six weeks after submission of Draft Final
Report. Comments will be provided on the draft Final Report within three
weeks after submission; and
(d)    proposed terms of reference for follow-up technical assistance to help
implement the recommendations together with the Draft Final Report.
AP41N
November 1991
(O&MStudy.NPR)



- 81 -
Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 8
REPUBI  OQF 9J,NA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATIJN AND MAINTENANCE PRO.ECT
Feeder Road Maintenance Performance Budgeting System
Terms of Reference
A.           Introduction
1.           The Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) of the Ministry of Roads and
Highways (MRH) is responsible for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
country's feeder roads. There are at present some 21,900 km of classified feeder roads in
Ghana. Over the last two decades or so, most feeder roads have deteriorated to an extent that
many are inaccessible even in the dry season. DFR has rehabilitated about 4,000 km of
feeder roads from 1983 to 1991 and plans to rehabilitate an additional 8,000 km from 1992 to
1999, bringing the total of maintainable feeder roads to 12,000 km.
2.           Trunk road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance in Ghana is the
responsibility of the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA). It is responsible for a total of 14,430
km of trunk roads consisting of 6,000 km of paved and 8,430 km of gravel surfaced roads.
GHA, which was established in 1974 as an authority, is well developed institutionally and has
a maintenance performance and budgeting systems.
3.           DFR has its headquarters in Accra and 10 regional and 32 road area offices to
cover the country-wide feeder road network. It is, at present, establishing four regional
workshops. It has a total of 1,431 employees of which 36 are graduate civil engineers. DFR
carries out all rehabilitation and periodic maintenance and a portion of the routine
maintenance works by contract. Its force account operations are limited to road surface
routine and recurrent maintenance and emergency-repair operations. DFR does not yet have a
well developed feeder road maintenance performance and budgeting system for preparation of
annual work program and related budgets. At present, programming and budgeting are being
done on experience basis with no systematic assessment of requirements. With the network
under maintenance expanding and the rehabilitation program increasing, the need for a well
developed maintenance performance and budgeting system (MPBS) has become indispensable.
4.           The Govermment has applied for IDA assistance to contribute to the finance of
a National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (NFRRMP). IDA has
already provided funds for project preparation which is in an advance stage. A portion of the
project funds will be used to finance consultant services for the development of an MPBS.
The scope of these services is defined in these TOR.
B.           Objectives
5.           The objectives of the consultant services under these TOR are to:



- 82 -
Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 8
(a)    develop a methodology for determining annual road maintenance programs
and budget requirements covering activities making up about 90% of funds
required for maintenance taking into account factors such as traffic density,
axle load, weather, climate, terrain and age of the feeder roads;
(b)    determine feeder road maintenance work loads based on (a) above and specify
distribution of the work loads between contract and force account taking into
account availability of labor-based and equipment-based contractors; the cost
effectiveness of the two methods of execution of work; appropriateness of
activities for measuring, quality control, supervision and packaging for
contracting;
(c)    determine funding and resource requirements to carry out the work loads
under (b) above subdivided into contract and force account operations. For
the force account operation determine DFR's requirement for regular and
seasonal labor force; equipment and vehicles; hand tools; and road materials;
(d)    develop an MPBS computer program for annual work programming and
budgeting for both contract and force account operations including
determination of labor, equipment, tools, and materials requirements for force
account operations.
C.           Scope of Consultant Services
I.           General
6.           The Consultant shall examine existing feeder road inventory and condition
surveys, collect data on factors related to feeder road maintenance work programming, cost
data and other works herein described, as required to achieve the stated objectives. In
conducting his work, the Consultant shall collaborate closely with MRH, DFR and regional
administrative officials. The Consultant shall also conduct desk studies regarding O&M
study, GHA's MPBS, and DFR's staffing plan and administrative and accounting systems.
The Consultant shall be solely responsible for the interpretation of all data and studies to be
reviewed and for his findings and recommendations contained in his report.
II.          Road Inventory and Condition Survey
7.           The Consultant shall carry out an inventory and condition survey on all feeder
roads under maintenance applying technically sound procedures. The Consultant shall
develop an appropriate and technically acceptable format and procedure for the feeder road
inventory and condition survey and the task will cover, inter alia, the following road features:
(a)   type of road surface and width;
(b)   road shoulder width, length and surface type;



- 83 -
Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 8
(c)    side, toe, and secondary ditches by shape of construction (V/U), paved and
unpaved, and lengths;
(d)    bridge structures by type of construction, size and location;
(e)    culverts by type of construction, size, and location;
(f)   fill and cut sections by depth and height, location and lengths; and
(g)    condition survey for each of the above features recording maintenance
deficiencies for each of the defined maintenance activities.
8.           The Consultant shall identify all feeder road maintenance activities making-up
about 90% of the annual road maintenance fund requirements and shall produce a clear and
technically acceptable definition for each of the identified activities. The Consultant shall
specify technically acceptable measurement units for each of the identified activities.
in.          Maintenance Work Program
9.           The Consultant shall develop a five year feeder road maintenance work
program covering roads presently under maintenance and those to be rehabilitated during the
five year program period. The program shall be subdivided by road area and road links
normally used by DFR for identification. In developing the program, the Consultant shall
determine annual quantity standards for each of the activities considering factors contributing
to the frequency of the maintenance activities such as:
 age of the feeder road;
* climatic conditions - dry, moderate, wet;
* terrain condition - flat, rolling, mountainous;
* quality of surface materials;
 average daily traffic - up to 30, 30 to 50, 50 to 100 etc.; and
* frequency of occurrence of each activity.
10.          The Consultant shall defme the method used to develop the quantity standards
showing weightings applied to the above listed factors in determining the quantity standards.
For example, the condition of road surface is affected to a high degree by traffic, rainfall and
quality of road surface material and to a lesser degree by terrain and age. The Consultant
will give weightings to relevant factors to show their effect in the occurrence of each
maintenance activity.
11.          The Consultant, based on the developed quantity standards and the road
condition survey, will calculate total annual work programs for the roads under maintenance
for each of the five year program period. Seasonal peaks of quantity of work will be leveled
over the number of working days available to execute each of the activities. This would mean



- 84 -
Annex 4-3
Page 4 of 8
that ditches eroded or filled with sediments will have to be corrected before the next rainy
season starts.
12.          The Consultant shall identify the maintenance activities which are appropriate
and easy for contracting and group the total work program into contract and force account
methods of execution. The Consultant in specifying maintenance activities by contract shall
consider availability of equipment-intensive, labor-intensive and length-man contractors to
execute the work. The Consultant shall also provide methods for quantifying and packaging
works for contract, technical specifications, contracting and supervision of contracts,
procedures for quality control, and method of measurement of works done as well as contract
work payment system and frequency.
IV.          Methods of Work
13.          The Consultant shall develop methods of work to be used to carry out each of
the maintenance activities. The methods of work shall describe the tasks ^o be performed to
complete the work of a maintenance activity. For example, the method of work for spot
patching/gravelling could include placing of signs to protect the workers, shaping the potholes
to retain the material to be added, hauling and dumping gravel at appropriatL places,
spreading of gravel in the potholes to required level, compacting the spread material,
removing any excess material and removing the traffic signs. The work method should
clearly define each of the tasks to be performed to attain a good quality of finished work.
V.           Work Force
1.4.         The Consultant shall develop the composition of equipment, tools and labor
required for a typical work force needed to carry out each of the maintenance activities. The
work force will be developed for all maintenance activities assuming that contractors will be
used to carry out all activities. For short distance gravel haulage the Consultant will consider
use of farm tractors with trailers and for long distance haulage appropriate size of tippers.
Hand tools would be those normally being used in Ghana. For material production and
loading the Consultant will consider the cost and benefit as well as the factor of mobility
between loader and dozer combination and that of using a traxcavator to do both operations.
15.          The Consultant shall determine hourly production rates for each work force
and convert the hourly production rates to daily production rates taking into account travel
time to and from work. Then from the daily production rates the annual production rates will
be calculated using the actual working days available in a year by subtracting official
holidays, weekends etc.,. To develop the production rates for the work force, the Consultant
shall carry out a survey on production rates presently being achieved by GHA and DFR work
forces and contractors working for GHA and DFR. The Consultant shall adjust the rates
obtained from the survey using his experience as well as by averaging variations in the survey
data.
16.          The Consultant shall, based on the work force developed, calculate
requirements of equipment by type and size, tools by type and labor force by job classification
for the total program for the five year program period subdivided by road area and road link.
First the total force input for each of the five years will be calculated for the total annual
program and then requirements per specified operation will be separately provided. Where



- 85 -
Annex 4-3
Page 5 of 8
only a fraction of an equipment is required in a road area the sharing road areas will be
specified taking into account the mobility of the equipment.
VI.          Maintenance Costs
17.          The Consultant shall develop maintenance cost per unit measure for each of
the identified activities using the production rates developed for each work force under para.
15 above and by adding cost of materials and considering that all activities will be carried out
by force account. The unit costs developed will be adjusted to reflect headquarters and field
direct overhead costs. The cost will be broken down into equipment, tools, labor and
materials. The equipment cost shall show the equipment owning and operating costs
separately. The Consultant shall then convert the force account unit costs to contract unit
costs by applying relevant variations between the two methods of operation such as profit
margin, business tax etc., which are not considered for force account costing.
18.          The Consultant shall, using the unit costs, calculate the cost for the total
program broken down into the following three categories:
(a)   total program cost using force account unit costs;
(b)   total cost of works specified for contract using contract unit costs; and
(c)   total cost of works specified for force account using force account unit costs.
VII.         MPBS Computer Program
19.          The Consultant shall develop computer programs for the effective application
of the MPBS. The program should allow entry of basic MPBS data on road inventory,
condition survey, quantity standards, work force composition and unit cost per unit measure.
From such basic data, the computer program should establish: (a) work program by activity
for country-wide, road area and individual road link; (b) work force requirements broken
down into the force composition for total country, for each road area and individual road link;
(c) annual road maintenance fund (budget) requirement by activity for country-wide summary,
by road area and by individual road link.
20.          The computer program should allow entry of work accomplishment and
expenditures for each activity for specific road links and be able to give comparison between
physical accomplishment and target and budget allocation and expenditures. It should also
provide a system of carrying forward backlog in program accomplishment to the next year
program. Such carry forward backlogs will be checked and compared with annual road
condition survey and the program should allow for adjustment of basic data. inputs on quantity
standards, work force, production rates and unit rates shall be arijusted.
VIII.        Implementation of the MPBS
21.          The consultant in consultation with DFR shall select an appropriate pilot road
area to test the MPBS. DFR will ensure that the pilot road area has sufficient qualified staff
to understand and test the MPBS. DFR will also arrange that other road area staff are
periodically sent to the pilot road area and receive training by the consultant on the



- 86 -
Annex 4-3
Page 6 of 8
implementation of the MPBS so that they will be fully trained to introduce the system in their
own road areas as soon as the country-wide implementation of the MPBS starts. Based on the
results obtained in the pilot road area, the Consultant shall adjust the MPBS data inputs to
ensure that the system does reflect as much as practically possible the actual field conditions.
The Consultant will develop a program of action for DFR to implement and monitor the
MPBS country-wide.
IX.          Key Personnel and Time Schedule
22.          The Consultant shall develop the MPBS within six months of start of
assignment in Ghana and shall test the MPBS in a selected pilot road area over a twelve
months period thereafter. The services are estimated for input of 43 man-months. The
consultant is free to propose his own composition and duration of assignment of key
personnel. The client-proposed composition and duration of assignment of key personnel is as
follows:
(a)    Civil Engineer/Team Leader: - with at least 15 years of experience of which
the last seven years should be in road maintenance programming and
management, portion of which should be with a public works agency
responsible for roads. He shall have sufficient experience in an up to date
computer based road maintenance performance budgeting system and has
about three years cumulative work experience in the Africa Region - for the
first ten months on continuous basis and intermittently another six months
during the pilot road area testing of the MPBS;
(b)    Budgeting and Cost Accounting Specialist: - with at le2st 15 years experience
of which 7 years are in public works agencies responsible for road
construction and maintenance - for six months during the development of the
MPBS and for the last two months of the MPBS pilot road area testing;
(c)    Computer Systems Specialist for four months intermittently as required;
(d)    Civil Engineer: - with at least 15 years experience of which last eight years
shall be in road construction and maintenance and has at least three years
experience in Africa Region - for 12 months during the pilot road area testing
of the MPBS; and
(e)    Equipment Specialist: - with at least 15 years experience of which eight years
are in road construction and maintenance equipment - for three months during
the system development period.
X.    Training
23.   The full benefits of the MPBS will be captured only if the right caliber and sufficient
number of DFR staff are fully trained on the development and application of the MPBS; on
the development and application of the computer program; and on the methods of updating the
input data. The Consultant shall give due attention to the training requirement under this
assignment, and DFR will ensure that required caliber of counterparts are assigned to the
Consultant from the start of the services. The Consultant and DFR will select the right



- 87 -
Annex 4-3
Page 7 of 8
counter- parts based on selection criteria that will be developed by the Consultant and agreed
upon by DFR. DFR will ensure that the counter- parts will continue to work on the tasks
after the Consultant has left Ghana. DFR's MPBS staff will train their replacements in the
event that they have to change their assignments.
XI.          Reports and Time of Submission
24.          The Corsultant shall submit the following reports at the times specified for
each:
(a)   Inception Report (8 copies): - within six weeks after start of assignment in
Ghana;
(b)    Road Inventory and Condition Survey Report (12 copies): - within three
months after start of assignment in Ghana;
(c)    Draft Maintenance Work Program Report (8 copies): - within six months after
start of assignment in Ghana. DFR will provide the Consultant its and Bank's
comments on the draft report within one month after submission by the
Consultant;
(d)    Final Maintenance Work Program Report (20 copies): - within seven months
after start of assignment in Ghana;
(e)    Draft Report on Method of Work and Work Force (8 copies): - within five
months after the start of assignment in Ghana. DFR will provide the
Consultant its and Bank's comments on the draft report within one month after
submission by the Co: isultant;
(f)    Final Report on Method of Work and Work Force (20 copies): - within seven
months after the start of assignment in Ghana;
(g)    Draft Maintenance Cost Report (8 copies): - within eight months after start of
assigrnment in Ghana. DFR will provide the Consultants its and Bank's
comments on the draft report within one months after submission by the
Consultant;
(h)    Final Maintenance Cost Report (20 copies): - within ten months after the start
of assignment in Ghana;
(i)    Draft MPBS Computer Program Report (8 copies): - within six months after
start of assignment in Ghana. DFR will provide the Consultant its and Bank's
comments within one month of submission by the Consultant;
U)    Final MFBS Computer Program Report (20 copies): - within eight months
after start of assignment in Ghana; and



- 88 -
Annex 4-3
Page 8 of 8
(k)    PMBS Implementation Report (8 copies): - Two months before MPBS
implementation for testing in a pilot road area ends.
AF4IN
November 1991
(PerBudSy.NFR)



- 89 -
Annex 44
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NA=TNAL FEEDER ROADS REHABIfITATION AND MAINTENANCE PRO.ECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Terms of Reference
A.    Background and Introduction
1.           The Government of Ghana and IDA intend to monitor the NFRRMP in order that
experiences gained can be taken into account in ongoing projects and other future projects such as the
proposed German grant for rural roads in Northern Ghana. The indicators to be monitored have been
compiled from experiences gathered by DFR from the many projects that it has handled in the recent past
including the Sefwi Wiawso Pilot Labour-Based Project and other donor assisted projects.
2.           Reliable estimates of the NFRRMP impacts on agricultural production and productivity
as well as other sectors of the economy would require detailed sample household survevs. The sample
size will have to be carefully selected such that both accuracy and reliability are not sacrificed in much
the same way as not to make it too expensive. In view of the geographical spread of the NFRRMP
projects areas, it may not be possible to undertake a baseline study of all road areas and, hence, other
available data in DFR collected by consultants, as well as secondary data, should be used as much as
i          possible and inferences made, where possible.
3.           Methodology to be used in monitoring the program will be developed by economic
consultants to be engaged to assist with data collection. The project will also be designed such that
DFR's district and regional offices would be responsible for monitoring physical progress, technical
performance of project components, and the performance of contractors.
4.    Objectives of Monitoring:
(a)   to measure economic impacts of feeder roads improvement on the areas served and to
compare these with the costs of rehabilitation and maintenance;
(b)   to monitor project performance and provide data needed for estimating actual ERRs on
feeder roads selected for rehabiiitation and maintenance;
(c)   to measure changes in agricultural production of specific crops brought about as a result
of improved access;
(d)   to measure increasces in ADT volumes and any changes in farm gate prices of agricultural
produce attributable to improved access;
(e)   to provide other data which will assist DFR to improve upon its method of pre-selecting
feeder roads for investment;



- 90 -
Annex 44
Page 2 of 3
(f)   to provide DFR with a scientific basis for assessing the performance of all NFRRMP
components.
B.    Scope of Work
5.            Data to be used in monitoring and evaluating the NFRRMP will be supplemented with
secondary information. Specialized consultants will be used in collecting primary or survey data but DFR
will attach counterpart staff where possible.
6.            The consultants to be engaged will help DFR define a cost-effective method to measure
program impacts and also define measurable indicators, selection of appropriate sample sizes, design and
pre-testing of questionnaire as well as the collection of data. Consultants will ensure that the sampling
method, frame and procedure capture both daily and seasonal variations.
7.            From empirical evidence available at DFR, impacts of road improvement will include the
following: increase in agricultural production, reduction in transport cost, reduction in head porterage anA
shifts in modal usage, increase in traffic volume, employment generation as well as other non-quantifiable
benefits.
8.            Attempts will be made to isolate the impact of improved access on different types of crops
within the project road areas. This will be done considering sampled farm families and standardizing
farm and family sizes. Consultants will ensure that appropriate farm models are used.
9.            Increase in traffic volumes will be assessed on the basis of traffic surveys, taking account
of vehicle types and modal usage. Duration, times and survey points are to be determined by consultants.
Attempts will be made to estimate both generated and diverted traffic by analyzing the rural road network
anid the conduct of an origin and destination survey.
10.          Transport costs are to be estimated from surveys of road users on project and non-project
roads using data gathered before, during and after the NFRRMP. Distances covered by vehicles as well
as the cost and extent of head porterage are to be assessed.
11.          Consultants will be required to develop other measurable indicators for project monitoring
in broad sectors such as non-agricultural production, income, crop marketing and commerce, social,
institutional and demographic changes. The real importance of the NFRRMP is its impact on agriculture
and the other sectors, and not the other changes they cause directly. This basic principle is therefore to
guide consultants in the choice of variables for the monitoring and evaluation. The emphasis of
monitoring and evaluation will be on these social, economic and related variables wh;ch are essential to
obtain better estimates of the impact of NFRRMP.
C.    Manpower Requirements
12.          The study is initended to be undertaken by a consi'lting firm. Each shortlisted firm will
be required to propose a team comprising, but not limited to the following:
*     Project Coordinator;



- 91 -
Annex 4-4
Page 3 of 3
*     Agricultural Economist;
*     Regional Planner/Transport Planner; and
*     Systems Analyst/Statistician.
The monitoring and evaluation component of the NFRRMP will require about 27 person-months of
consultants' efforts.
13.   Schedule of Activities:
(a)    Development of consultant's work plan. This should include a detailed methodology of
the study plus schedule of all interviewing forms, dates and monitoring plan.
(b)    Submission of Inception Report one month after signing contract.
(c)    Annual reports covering all monitoring topics and indicators as outlined above.
(d)    Major report would be prepared before project mid-term review on the basis of available
information on all project indicators.
(e)    Preparation of sections of the Project Completion Report which would contain the
-economic evaluation of the project and summaries of the main conclusions as regards
economic benefits and  costs as well as other conclusions and  appropriate
recommendations.
AP41N
November 1991
(MoniEval.NFR)



- 92 -
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Recommended DFR Organization
A.         DFR's Institutional Status
1.         The assignment of feeder road functions to a single institution is entirely appropriate.
It ensures that feeder roads are not neglected in favor of trunk roads. Responsibility for
performance is not diffused over a number of agencies and therefore accountability is more easily
achieved. DFR's separate status has allowed it to develop a successful labor-based technology and
a philosophy of promoting private contractors. There is therefore no case for any fundamental
changes in the structure of responsibility for feeder roads. The proposed formal 0 & M Study will
built on the recent DFR organization analysis, which was executed as part of project preparation,
and will thoroughly analyze DFR's institutional capacity as needed for the implementation of the 8
year NFRRMP.
B.         Headquarters Setup
Proposed Planning and Contract Administration Division
2.         This new division would comprise the existing Planning, Quantity Survey and
Accounts Sections. Its functions would be:
(a)   Project Preparatvon
*    Project identification
*    Feasibility studies
*    Tender documentation
*    Procurement of consultants, equipment and works including calling of bids, evaluation
and award
*    Checking of tender documents, bills of quantities, etc. produced by the regions or
consultants
(b)   Financial Control and Allocation
*    Account for funds spent
*    Report to donors on disbursement
*    Monitor disbursements, compare to programs, check for expenditure performance, etc.
*    Ensure availability and allocation of programmed funds
*    Check and prepare payment certificates as necessary
*    Create and maintain assets register
(c)   Monitoring
*    Devise and operate arrangements for effective monitoring of implementation and
physical performance, including computerized databases



- 93 -
Annex 4-5
Page 2 of 4
*    Prepare and implement DFR's computerization program
|    Organize collection of unit cost data for use for budgeting and preparation of Bills of
Quantities
(d)   Planning and Budgeting
*    Provide guidance to regions on planning and budgeting for feeder roads
*    Coordinate and prepare annual budget for all categories of expenditure
*    Develop a planning methodology for use by the regions which will integrate
rehabilitation and maintenance operations into a physically and financially sustainable
network
*    Review action plans prepared by regions using the methodology
*    Coordinate action plans into a sub-sectoral strategy
3.         There are a number of important features to note about the proposed division. First, it
will combine the three disciplines: quantity surveying, planning and accounting which have
important linkages and interrelationships throughout the project cycle.
4.         Second, it will act as a common resource or service unit for both the existing
Development and Maintenance Divisions. This will help ensure that no bias develops towards
either kind of activity. It will provide monitoring information on physical performance which is
essential for both divisions to carry out their activities. The mechanical and procurement sections
of the Maintenance Division will have a strong linkage so as to ensure that its procurement of
equipment is coordinated with the implementation of donor supported programs.
5.         Third, the creation of the new division will not remove the need for support by a
contract management specialist to assist in DFR's procurement operations. Much of the work to be
carried out by the contract management specialist is of a mechanical, albeit complex nature. It is
essential work for the efficient implementation of donor supported projects. There is neither the
capacity nor experience within DFR to do this work. It is clear that a more concerted training
effort should be made in order to ensure that DFR can carry out these functions in the future. DFR
quantity survey and accountancy staff of the appropriate training and experience will need to be
attached to the contract management specialist.
6.         Fourth, there remains the issue o1 now much pre-contract work can be undertaken in
the regions. It is desirable that as much as possible is done at this level. Almost by definition,
procurement of consultants has to be carried out at headquarters. However, judgement will need to
be made on a case-by-case basis as to whether a region has the capacity to undertake procurement
of all local works contractors. This will depend on staffing quality and quantity, their existing
workload, familiarity with donor procurement procedures, and the workload involved in the project
concerned. If work cannot be undertaken in the regions, it should be done by consultants.
Checking of such work will always have to be done at headquarters, but the work itself should
rarely, if ever, be undertaken there.
7.         ED, staffing for the new division will need to be augmented. The chief quantity
surveyor has iimrited line support. As soon as possible, senior staff should be hired to fill existing
positions within the organization. If necessary, this should be done through contract appointments.
The conversion of DFR to a subvented authority would make such action easier.



- 94 -
Annex 4-5
Page 3 of 4
Existing Development and Maintenance Divisions
8.         The Development and Maintenance Divisions should continue to operate in the flexible
way in which they do at the moment. However, they should be prepared to cooperate in ensuring
that there is a proper baiance between their two activities at regional level and that planning by
regional staff is give l a high profile. The Administration Division would contain personnel and
training, and administration sections only.
C.         Regional Setup
Planning
9.         The role of planning at regional level needs to be promoted. Therefore, training needs
to be given to regional engineers who will ultimately have to take responsibility for planning. They
also need to be given the support of a small Planning and Programming Unit. The function of this
unit would be to:
*    make an inventory of feeder road conditions in the region;
*    determine feeder road priorities in the region, in close coordination with District
Assemblies;
*    devise costed maintenance programs (Action Plans) which maximize unit cost
efficiency and concentrate on the top priority feeder roads in the network;
*    determine rehabilitation and periodic maintenance requirements in the context of likely
available resources to maintain the whole priority network and incorporate into Action
Plans;
*    prepare annual budget proposals;
*    provide planning advice to District Assemblies and their District Road Committees on
feeder road prioritization and incorporate community preferences into Action Plans and
budgets.
10.       It is envisaged that a typical Planning and Programming Unit would have a staffing
complement of three comprising a transport planner/economist and a civil engineer, supported by a
technician.
Donor Support Strategy
11.        There should be maximum possible devolution of responsibility to field level.
Concern has already been expressed that a number of regions are below strength and that the
rehabilitation program could place additional strains on maintenance capabilities. It is a matter of
concern that projects designed to enhance maintenance capability do not mesh with rehabilitation
projects nor priority maintenance requirements.



- 95 -
Annex 4-5
Page 4 of 4
12.        There is a considerable degree of complexity in current donor support arrangements
which impose a complicated management burden. It is therefore difficult to determine how the
various donor projects reinforce institutional capability, if at all. Future donor arrangements need
to be more clearly focussed on supporting institutional strengthening and promoting effective field
management.
13.        To achieve this end, it is therefore suggested that:
*    there should be a reappraisal of the regions in which NFRRMP activity is initially to
be concentrated;
*    rehabilitation programs should not be expanded into new regions before those that are
initially selected are fully operational;
*    first priority should be given to those regions which combine a high proportion of
maintainable roads and high agricultural potential rankings derived from socio-
economic studies;
*    NFRRMP concentrates on developing overall capacity within selected DFR regional
organizations, including the creation of convincing maintenance capacity, as an
essential precursor of rehabilitation operations.
14.       It is proposed that NFRRMP concentrate initially on Central, Ashanti, Brong Ahafo,
and Northern regions. Special arrangements currently apply to Sefwi Wiaswo, which should
continue given that the labor-based contractor program was started there, but the general upgrading
of the regional organization should not receive priority. The same argument must apply to
Koforidua, as it would be undesirable to move the labor-based training school again.
15.        Likewise, there should be reconsideration of the priority given to the Upper West
region. It is realized that this may prove a difficult issue, but it should be understood that the price
of going ahead in this region may be the neglect of a maintainable road network in another region.
16.        The entire program for regional institutional strengthening between 1991 and 1996 is
as follows. This has been developed by comparing the maintenance priority targets with the
prioritizations of road areas resulting from the socio-economic analyses undertaken for NFRRMP:
1990/91         Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Central, plus Sefwi Wiaswo and Koforidua
road areas.
1992            Northern.
1993            Eastern, Upper West.
1994            Upper East, Greater Accra.
1995            Volta.
1996            Western.
AF41N
Novenber 1991
(DFROWan.NFR)



- 96 -
Annex 46
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DFIR Starrng Requirements
A.         Regional Level
1.         The following table projects demand and supply for engineers in the regions. It is
based on numerous assumptions in addition to those mentioned in the notes to the table, for
example, on the numbers of extra staff needed to implement NFRRMP in the field.
DFR Regional Staffing Requirements - Professional Engineers
Note   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Minimulm Requirement       1       45      46       47      49      50      50
Cocoa Rehabilitation       2        4       4       4        4       4
Project                    24               4       44
Other Projects             3        5       5       3
NFRRMP                       =       =      5       10      10      10      10
Totals                             54       60   164        63      64      60
Staff inPost               4       33       38      43      48      53      58
Postgraduate Training               1        1 1    2        3       3       3
Shortfall                          22       23   118        18      14       5
Notes:     I.   This figure includes all engineers needed for basic administration, SIAM,
MOREMAT, etc.
2.   DFR engineers on attachment to consultants.
3.   TRP-1, TRP-2, PAMSCAD etc.
4.   Assumes intake of 6 graduate engineers per year, al; allocated to field positions,
with attrition of 1 engineer per year.
2.         It is estimated from the table that the ultimate field establishment of professionally
qualified engineers should be 60. This total would cater for normal, not peak, workloads, over the
NFRRMP project duration, assuming that the workload will not alter significantly after 1996. It
also broadly incorporates the principles regarding the proportional assumption of design and
construction supervision responsibilities by DFR and consultants. In the above table, it is assumed
that this consultancy input for construction supervision will mainly be absorbed by the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project throughout the projection period.
3.         Before the theoretically desirable staffing complement is achieved, there will be a
serious shortfall of DFR staff, especially over the short term. This is clearly indicated in the above



- 97 -
Annex 4-6
Page 2 of 4
table. Unless management of ongoing maintena'ce operations is relinquished in a number of
regions, almost all construction supervision must be undertaken by consultants over the projection
period. Even then, staff numbers will be barely sufficient to run minimum requirement needs on
the basis of existing staffing ratios and the implementation programs for strengthening of regions
(see Annex 4-5). This means that consideration must be given to one, some or all of the following
alternatives:
*    that some staff must "double up" and accept additional responsibilities;
*    that the program for NFRRMP must be slipped;
o    that induction and training of new staff must be stepped up over the next three years;
*    that technician engineers are used more frequently in place of professional engineers
where shortfalls occur;
*    that additional consultants or technical assistance must be hired to meet the shortfall.
It is suggested that, under all circumstances, there is a reworking by DFR management of the
projection shown in the above table once the NFRRMP implementation starts.
4.         It is not so straightforward to predict requirements for other important groups of staff.
The current role of technician engineers in particular is largely to substitute for civil engineers.
Their major formal task within the current structure is to act as road area engineers, for which there
are ultimately 32 positions available. They will be required to oversee MOREMAT units once they
are fully set up, which will require another 10 positions. There are 17 technician engineers
currently employed in DFR, with a ceiling of 37. This number includes all mechanical and
geodetic as well as civil technician engineers. Approrimately 25 additional positions for civil
engineer technicians will be required to cope with a fully fledged regional network.
5.         The demand for foremen is very high. The present output of trained foremen is
insufficient to meet the scheduled contractor output and support the proposed program of regional
institutional strengthening. A revision is proposed to the training program for foremen, involving a
reduction in the numbers of contractors (and consequently contractor supervision foremen) trained
in 1992/3. The impact of this is shown in the following table. This will allow the phased program
for the introduction of SIAM, MOREMAT and community-executed routine maintenance
arrangements to be properly staffed. The only training of foremen that would be needed after 1996
would be to compensate for natural wastage from the workforce, or for in-service training. This
revised training program has been reflected in the projections of labor-based contractor capacity.



- 98 -
Annex 46
Page 3 of 4
Foreman Manpower Requirements (Revised Training Program)
1990/91         1992        1993         1994       1995      1996
Regions subject to    Ashanti          Northern    Eastern      Upper      Volta     Western
Comprehensive         Brong Ahafo                              East
Upgrading             Central plus                             Gr. Accra
Sefwi Wiaswo
I ____________________  Koforidua         __I
NumberofRoad           11               4           7            4          3         3
Districts                                                                                      l
Number of Political    50              13           16          11          12        8
Districts                                                                                      I
No. of SIAM Foremen   22                8           14           8          6         6
- Towed Grader and
Culvert Teams                                                                                  l
No. of District        50              13           16          11          12        8
Foremen
No. of MOREMAT         14
Foremen (1)            _             _           _
No. of Contractor      49              12           12          12          12        12
Supervision Foremen
Total Annual                           33           42          31          30        26
Additional DFR
Foremen Required
Total DFR Foremen      135             168         210          241        271       297
Required
Total Trained (2)      86              118         150          182        214       246
Shortfall              49              50           60          59          57        51
Notes:
(1) No. of MOREMAT units reduced from 18 originally estimated by DFR to 14
(2) Assumed annual output of training program at Koforidua is:
48 contractors staff (= 12 contractors)
12 contractor supervision foremen
20 other DFR foremen
B.         Headquarters
6.         The major new initiative recommended for headquarters is the creation of a Planning
and Contract Administration Division. Otherwise there is little need seen to change the current



- 99 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
headquarters administrative structure. There are a number of unfilled posts at headquarters. These
need to be filled as soon as possible, through outside recruitment or short-term consultancies.
Particular mention needs to be made of the need to fill all vacancies in the Survey and Design
Section and Quantity Survey Section. There will be an additional need for ongoing technical
assistance to the Quantity Survey Section.
C.         Staff Availability
7.         Some 40 civil engineers graduate each year from the Civil Engineering Department at
the University of Science and Technology in Kumasi. DFR is a favored destination of recent
graduates and there are no problems in recruiting six new graduates each year. It is doubtful
whether DFR could cope with a larger influx than this. It is likely that, as the organization
becomes more mature, the possibilities for fast-track professional development that now exist will
become less common and consequently DFR will have to compete harder to attract graduate
engineers.
8.         Twenty diploma holders are produced each year by the UST. The general demand for
these is not as strong as for civil engineers. DFR should be able to recruit for its needs
successfully from amongst this group.
AR4IN
November 1991
(DFRStaff.NFR)



- 100 -
Annex 4-7
Page 1 of 2
REPVBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PRQJC
DFR Traininm  Program
A.         In-Service Training
1.         The labor-based training course that is now run from the Koforidua Training Institute
has been highly successful. It is intended that technical assistance by external agencies such as ILO
be provided for the institution. The success of Koforidua should be used to provide an anchor for a
broader training ;nitiative. If training is to be successful, it should have a permanent base to
operate from and a constituency continually promoting it. Otherwise it is almost inevitable that
training will be relegated to last priority as more urgent, shorter term considerations crowd it out.
2.         It is therefore suggested that a project is designed to define the scale of investment in
buildings, plant and permanent staff complement needed to run Koforidua as a full-time training
institution. This should be accompanied by a full financial plan, including assessment of charges
that should be levied. It is expected that the training institute will continue to run courses in labor-
based technology for contractors and DFR staff. Interest in attending such courses may be attracted
from other West African countries or they may wish for their instructors to be trained. There is
scope for liaison with the Civil Engineering Department at the University of Science and
Technology at Kumasi to instruct undergraduates. GHA may also wish to participate. It is
expected that the institute would take the lead in providing in-service training for DFR staff at all
levels.
3.         DFR has already devised an in-service training program for 1991 and will continue to
do so every year. It comprises induction courses for new recruits as well as training for more
experienced staff. Details are shown in Attachment 1. The induction courses are designed to give
new staff exposure to all relevant aspects of DFR organization over a 24-month period. It is well
thought out and requires no further comment.
4.         The topics proposed for training more experienced staff are quite comprehensive. The
orientation of the training topics emphasizes technical skills. However, the emphasis of DFR's
operations is very much on management and planning and course modules need to be designed to
enhance capability to undertake these tasks. Complementary to this is a need to understand
financial and accounting procedures, procurement and reporting and monitoring. It is highly likely
that computer technology will be introduced into regional offices, especially in connection with
planning, budgeting, monitoring and accounting over the next few years, and this must be
accompanied by training. Some instruction is needed on the procedures associated with major
donor project cycles. Although headquarters staff might benefit from general management courses,
regional staff in management positions particularly need exposure to the subjects outlined above.
5.         It is essential that course structure and content is ultimately driven by managers and
not by the permanent training staff it is suggested be employed. This will ensure that courses are
not over-academic and will yield practical results. Project design for the Koforidua center must
include a system for monitoring the impact of training activities to ensure that a beneficial impact
on efficiency and productivity is achieved.



- 101 -
Annex 4-7
Page 2 of 2
B.         External Training
6.         A target of approximately one-third of professional staff should receive postgraduate
training. The prospect of such training will also be an important incentive for staff to remain with
the organization. All postgraduate training must be uDw. aken abroad. A potential problem is that
not all those who go on such training abroad return to Ghana. Opinion within DFR (and experience
with GHA) is that this has not been a problem for them to date. It is therefore intended under the
NFRRMP to set aside funds for some three students from DFR to undertake postgraduate training
annually, assuming funds will not become available from other sources. The number sent each year
may have to vary depending on the demanus of the projerts DFR is carrying out. Proposed
postgraduate training shown in Attachment 2 has been adjusted in early years to accommodate such
considerations.
7.         Technician engineers should continue to be given the opportunity to pursue
undergraduate training. The School of Engineering at Kumasi needs to receive some attention if its
students are to receive training appropriate for employment in DFR. There are no staff currently
available who specialize in highways or transportation. This situation is claimed to be a function of
poor salaries at the University and the consequent loss of staff. There are also problems of shortage
of teaching space and equipment. A proposed project (costing $3.9 million in 1989 prices) has been
formulated by the School to provide new facilities and to fund ten additional staff. No donor has
yet been found to support the project.
AF4IN
November 1991
(DFRTrain.NFR)



- 102 -
Anex 4 
Attachment 1
RKUILIC OF GIMANA
Annual. Schedule  of Tn-House  Training  Pro.rain.
1.   Course 8
Promotion Course for TechnicaL Assistant        4 weeks          Mid February to mid March
2.   Course 8
Promotion Course for Senior TechnicaL Ass.   4 weeks             Mid JuLy to mid August
3.   Course C
Maintenance Management Course                   6 weeks           July to mid August
4.   Course D
Introduction to Personnel Management           4 weeks                February
S.   Course E
Project Supervision Course                      3 days                June
o.   Course F
Office Management and Administration            4 weeks               July
7.   Course G
Stores Management                              4 weeks           Mid April to mid May
8.   Course H
Administrative Seminar                          11 days               August
9.   Course I
First Grader Operators' Course                   4 weeks         Mid January to mid February
Second Grader Operators' Course                  4 weeks              March
11.  Course K
Third Grader Operators' Course                   4 weeks              May
12. Course L
ORT/GHA RTPU Training                            8 weeks          March to April
13.  Course M
Training of Trainers                             6 weeks         August to mid September
14.  Coursg N
SemIinar on four years of L.I.P.                 1 day                March
15. Course 0
Contracts Management Seminar                     I day                May
16. Curse _P
Third Passcad Training                          23 weeks          January to mid June
17.  Cggrse 0
Fourth Pamscad Training                         23 weeks         July to mid December



No.   Courae/Seminer/Conference           '92    *93    *94    *95    Duration         Tuition      Per        Air         Cost/       Total
Fees        Diem        Fare       iNnee        Cost
1.    ke  .n High Engineering                                   ~~~~~~--------------in US$ -------------------
1.    Nsa '.. Highway Engineering                                                                        h    S
for   veloping CoLmtries             1      1       1       1     12 mos         13,000      11.000     2.300       26,301i      105,200
2.   Mtc in Transportation and
Road Engineering in
Developing Countries                 -       I      -             24 mos         12,000      47,753      2.500      62,253        62,253
3.    Nsc in Transport
Engineering                          I                            24 mos        34,000       11,540     2,800       48,340        48,340
4.    Course on Bride Inspection
and Maintenance                      I      -       1       -     24 mks         6,500        6,552      2,800      48,340        48,341
5.    Road Nointenance
anagement Course                     -       1      -       1     12 ks          15,700       5,30       2.300      23,300        46,60D
6.    International Course for
Labor-Based Road
Maintenance and  nagement
Program                              6      6       6       6      6 wks         5.000          120      1.150       6,270       150,480
7.    Organization                         1       1       I      1       4 mks           -          1.100     1,900       3,000        12,000
8.    Course on Techno-Eromamic
Feasibility of Road Design,
Construction and
Naintenance in Developing
Coumtries                            1      1       1       1      4 wks            -           500         -          S00         2,000
9.    Nsw in Transportation
Plamiing                             1      -       -       -     24 mos        34.000       11t540     2,800       48U340        48,340
10.   Msc in Construction
NMaagement                           1      1       1       1     12 as          13.000      11.000      2.300      26,200        52,600
11.   Project Management Program           1       1      1       1      4 mks            -         1,100      1.900       3.000        12,000
12.   Nsc in Transport Plaming
and Engineering                                     I -  S  -     12 mas        13.000       11,000     2,300       26,300        52.600
13.   Rural Transport Investment           1       1       -      -       4 wks         5,000         512      1,150       6,662        13.325
14.   Post-Graduate Diploma
in Human Resource
Development                          1      -       -       -      9 mos         12,300       8,400      2,300      23,030        23.000
15.   Training - Its Design                                                                                                                           r 0
and Management                       1      -       -       -     12 wks        15,700        5.300     2,300       23.300        23.300        l D
16.   Advanced Logistics                                                                                                                                 4
Management                           1       -      -       -     12 mks         15,700       5.300      2.300      23.300        23.000              
r2t



17.   Pcst-OrWwte  pld
Cutus  In Survaylun                 I      1      1       1     12 me         17.300      11.000     2,300      25,600       102,400
1J.   N  In Irwpwrtat1an                  1      -       -      -     12            10,000       7,000     2,800      19,800        19.800
rt



- 105 -
Annex 4-8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Pro'ect
Domestic Construction Industry Capacdtv Assessment and Development Study
Terms of Reference
A.    Objectives
1.    The objective of the consultant services under these TOR is to make an in-depth
assessment of the problems and constraints the domestic construction industry is confronted
with and to develop a strategy and plan of action needed to be undertaken by GOG, user
agencies, donors, commercial banks, contractors etc., to support the development of the
industry within limits of job availability.
2.    The objectives of the consultant services under the TOR are to:
(a)   assess the present and potential capacity of the "A" and "B" class domestic
contractors in skill and experience of business management; construction work
planning; programming and execution; manpower, equipment and financial
capacities; and technical capability to meet international quality standards;
(b)   assess the business environment and policies of government and the private
sector to create an enabling environment for the improvement of a better local
construction industry;
(c)   recommend short and long term measures and actions to be taken by the
government, the private sector including commercial banks, external financing
agencies and by the industry itself to introduce an enabling environment so
that the available demand for the industry could be fully catered for.
B.    Scope of Consultant Services
3.    The consultant shall conduct the tasks of the assignment specified herein, to fully
achieve the stated objectives. In conducting the assignment, the consultant shall apply sound
technical, financial and business practices relevant to attaining the stated objectives. The
consultant shall obtain required data and information on the industry from MRH, GHA, DFR,
DUR, contract supervisory consultants, contractors, relevant financing agencies and
commercial banks.
4.    The consultant shall collect and review all studies, reports and financing agency
project documents related to the support and development as well as performance of the
industry. The consultant shall be solely responsible for the interpretation of all data, studies,
reports, reviews, etc., and for the findings and recommendations contained in his final report.



- 106 -
Annex 4-8
Page 2 of 4
5.    MRH, GHA, DFR and DUR will, upon consultant's request, provide needed
documents, reports and studies relevant to the consultant's assignment and shall assist in
coordinating contacts with relevant govermnent agencies, banks, contractors and consultants.
6.    The consultant shall carry out, inter alia, the following tasks:
(a)    review all reports and records maintained by the contracting advisor engaged
under the IDA financed Project Management Unit (PMU);
(b)    obtain from Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) loan application
evaluation documents; lists and value of equipment, holdings, tools, and spare
parts and operating loans provided to individual contractors; and loan
repayment records. The consultant shall assess the capacity and credit
worthiness of the individual contractors; assess reasonableness of the interest
rates charged by BHC including financial risks borne by contractors and the
effect of devaluation of the cedi;
(c)    obtain from commercial banks contractors' loan and loan repayment status and
assess the soundness of the loan interest rates charged by the commercial
banks;
(d)    obtain from GHA, DFR, DUR, and other relevant agencies contracts
undertaken by the "A" and "B" class contractors over the past five years
including details of performance of the contractors both in quality and contract
completion time and assess the performance of the contractors over the past
five years;
(e)    produce representative lists for Al to A4 and Bi to B4 contractors based on
data obtained under (d) above and conduct a survey leading to a contractor
business performance review using a well designed survey questionnaire;
(f)    obtain contractor performance assessment from user agencies (GHA, DFR,
DUR etc.) using a questionnaire to obtain realistic performance rating;
(g)    obtain contractor performance assessment from contract supervising
consultants using a questionnaire to obtain realistic performance rating;
(h)    review and assess policies and procedures of lending provisions of public and
private banks to the construction industry;
(i)    carry out a survey of training provisions which have been made available to
the construction industry by GHA, DFR, DUR and other institutions such as
technical training schools, universities, and business management training
institutions;
(j)   identify main problems and constraints affecting the development and
performance of the local construction industry based on information and



- 107 -
Annex 4-8
Page 3 of 4
performance evaluations undertaken from (a) to (i) above, clearly defining
reasons, causes and effects of the identified problems and constraints;
(k)   identify implementable policy and procedural reforms to be undertaken by
GOG, the private sector and public and commercial banks to support the
development of the local construction industry;
(I)    assess and determine roadwork availability until the year 2000 using realistic
work programs of GHA, DFR, DUR and other agencies;
(m)   determine the local construction industry capacity needed to meet the
roa.dwork availability determined under O) above;
(n)   recommend measures and actions to be taken by GOG and client agencies to
support the local construction industry to carry out the workload determined
under Q) above in terms of training assistance; applicable bidding documents;
timely payment of monthly certificates; mobilization advances etc.;
(o)   recommend measures to be taken in providing provisions to meet contractors'
needs for foreign exchange for purchase of equipment, spare parts, materials
& supplies; and
(p)   carry out an assessment of the role and contribution of the local construction
industry to the macro-economic performance of the country including possible
negative impacts on the economic development of the country in the event that
the industry's capacity for development does not materialize.
C.    Staff Composition and Duration of Assignment
7.    The consultant services under these TOR are estimated to require about 18 man-
months. Proposed composition and duration of assigmnents of consultant's key personnel is
given below. However, the consultant is free to propose his own staff composition and
duration of assignments to produce sound recommendations meeting the stated objectives.
(a)    Construction Industry Development Specialist with Civil Engineering degree
and a minimum experience of twenty (20) years in civil engineering work of
which a minimum of about ten (10) years experience have been in private
construction industry; for about eight (9) months.
(b)    Financial Specialist with a degree in Accounting/Finance with a minimum
experience of fifteen (15) years of which at least 8 years were spent working
as Finance Specialist in the private construction industry; for about five (6)
months; and
(c)    Macro-Economic Development Planner with a degree in Economics and an
experience of at least fifteen (15) years of which at least seven (7) years



- 108 -
Annex 4-8
Page 4 of 4
experience have been in national macro-economic planning; for about 3
months.
D.    Timing of Reporting Requirements
8.    The consultant shall prepare and submit the following reports within the submission
time specified for each:
(a)   ten (10) copies of Inception Report within three (3) weeks of start of
assignment in Ghana. Government and the Bank will communicate their
comments on the Inception Report within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
Inception Report;
(b)   ten (10) copies of Interim Report covering Consultant's findings of problems
and constraints of the local construction industry and plan of action in
completing the draft final report within five (5) months of start of assignment
in Ghana. Government and the Bank will communicate their comments to the
Consultant within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the Draft Interim Report;
(c)   ten (10) copies of Draft Final Report within seven months of start of
assignment in Ghana. Government and Bank will communicate to the
consultant their comments within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the Draft Final
Report; and
(d)   thirty (30) copies of Final Report within eight (8) months of start of
assignment in Ghana.
AP4IN
November 1991
(ConatTOR.NPR)



- 109 -
Annex 4-9
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Rural Mobility and Environment
A.           Bicycle Trailers and Single-Wheel Farm Vehicles
1.           The Bank has already provided funds to improve rural mobility under TRP-1
and TRP-2. The Northern Region Pilot Project under TRP-2 is concerned with the
demonstration and introduction of the following two intermediate means of transport (IMT)
which are new to Ghana:
a single-wheel, hand propelled small farm vehicle (SFV) for use by rural
households as a more efficient alternative to head-loading in order to meet
local transport needs, particularly between the farm and village; and
a two-wheel cycle trailer to increase the load carrying capacity of bicycles, for
use by rural households and for goods delivery and collection in small towns.
2.           The pilot project focuses primarily on introducing bicycle trailers and farm
vehicles. The former carry about 120 kg and can be hooked to a bicycle or pushed and
pulled separately. The latter has one wheel at the center, so that the weight is on the wheel
and not the arms which push it, and are suitable as carts on bush tracks. So far about 600
vehicle units were manufactured and distributed to user groups in villages, mainly women.
The design has been modified based on feed back of their use. Rural women were the main
beneficiaries, since head-porterage is generally done by them. Reception of these vehicles
mainly the trailers, has been enthusiastic.
3.           The bicycle-trailers, and single-wheel farm vehicles are being tested under a
pilot program carried out in the northern region where bicycles are popular, but not many
own them because the villagers lack the funds to invest. The newly introduced bicycle-
trailers, and single-wheel farm vehicles are now readily accepted as a substitute for head-
porterage. Surveys show that women would like to own them but cannot raise the funds to
buy them. An NGO recently bought some bicycles for distribution to women's groups in
some villages, and women have avidly taken to using the bicycles and demonstration trailers.
There has been no cultural resistance to the change.
4.           The objective under the proposed NFRRMP is to provide seed money (from
bilateral financing) to reduce the problem of affordability. DFR will, through NGOs and
cooperatives, operate and monitor the use of the seed money as a revolving fund for purchase
of bicycles and material for manufacturing single and two-wheeled trailers for sale on credit
basis to rural households in regions where the motor vehicles are usable and accepted by the
households. The initial proposal is to engage presently available five private blacksmiths who
previously were involved in assembling bicycles purchased by DFR and in manufacturing the
single and two-wheel trailers for which materials were purchased and provided by DFR.
About 40 sets of cycles, trailers and farm vehicles will be supplied in two tranches to each of
100 NGOs



- 110 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 2
and cooperatives for sale on credit basis to households in the Brong-Ahafo and Northern
Regions at a total cost of US$ 1.5 million. Potential blacksmiths will be entrusted to stock
needed spare parts while the repair and maintenance of the non-motor vehicles will be done
by rural households.
5.           The introduction of the non-motor vehicles will be the appropriate IMT from
which rural communities will benefit by reducing considerable amounts of time which rural
community now spend on head-porterage for the transport of farm products from farms to
households and/or to nearby market places. This will allow farmers to allocate more time for
farming which will in turn increase production. Moreover, the use of the non-motor vehicles
will reduce the physical strain and health problems arising from head-porterage.
B.           Planting of Fruit Trees
6.           The project will also provide funds for planting fruit trees along feeder roads
which will be rehabilitated through labor-based contractors. The fruit trees will be planted at
an appropriate distance from the road centerline thus avoiding the need to cut the trees as and
when the roads are widened. The fruit trees will have a lasting benefit by providing
food/cash supplements and environmental improvements. NGOs and cooperatives will be
entrusted with the nursing, planting and after care of the fruit trees at about US$2.0 fee per
tree for the operation and management of this sub-component.
C.           Beneficiaries
7.           The rural community as a whole will be the beneficiary of the rural mobility
and environment component under the NFRRMP and the TRP projects. Women who usually
do head-porterage of farm products will significantly benefit from the non-motor vehicles as
well as by earning cash income due to the opening of rural access roads. The component will
also have a major contribution in creating awareness to be technologically creative to tackle
constraints in the effort to generate income and improving their living standard. The
component will also create jobs for private entrepreneurs such as the blacksmiths who will be
involved in the assembly of the bicycles; the manufacturing the trailers; and the supply of
spare parts.
AF4IN
November 1991
(RuMobEnv.NFR)



- 111 -
Annex 4-10
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Institutional Arrangements for District Routine Maintenance
A.           Introduction
1.           Districts have been proposed by tlhe Government as the agency that should be
responsible, with DFR assistance, for routine feeder road maintenance. This is primarily to insure
that NFRRMP's activities will meet the letter and spirit of GOG's decentralization policy. It is also
based on the belief that districts will tend to perform better than DFR could in reflecting local
knowledge of road conditions and local preferences re maintenance priorities in their maintenance
decision-making.
2.           All forms of "force account" routine maintenance have been eliminated from
consideration because experience with force account routine maintenance has been almost universally
disappointing throughout the developing world. Force account routine maintenance was discontinued
by Ghana Highways Authority because of unsatisfactory results. Given the relatively low public
sector wages in Ghana, further experimentation seems pointless.
3.           Among the alternatives that remain, four appear to have some potential in rural
Ghana: (1) combined rehabilitation and maintenance contracts, (2) single-man contractors, (3) labor-
based contractors and (4) contracting with intermediary organizations.
B.           Combined Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contracts
4.           This phrase refers to a situation in which contractors might bid simultaneously on a
contract from DFR to rehabilitate a road and on a contract from a district to maintain that same road
for -n extended period (e.g. 3 years) following rehabilitation. The bids must be evaluated on the
basis of the best "package" for rehabilitation and maintenance. All bidders must bid on both contracts
and accept both if they win. Combining rehabilitation and maintenance responsibilities offers one
very significant advantage. It gives the contractor added incentive to perform rehabilitation work
well, because shoddy rehabilitation work will increase his/her maintenance costs.
5.           In practice, there are likely to be a number of difficulties in combining contracts for
rehabilitation and maintenance. First, DFR is likely to prefer the contractor with the best or lowest
rehabilitation bid, while the district might prefer the contractor with the best or lowest maintenance
bid. Procedures for resolving this situation, should it arise, would have to be worked out. Secondly,
contractors are unlikely to accept a fixed price, long term maintenance contract if they believe that
abuse of the road (e.g. frequent overloaded trucks) might result in significant damage to the road and
an increase in their maintenance costs. It is likely that the contractor would want guarantees that use
would be regulated, either by himself or by the district. Third, it may be that contractors would be



- 112 -
Annex 4-10
Page 2 of 6
uninterested in making a long term commitment to routine maintenance, which is "small potatoes"
compared to other rehabilitation contracts. This difficulty might be lessened by adding to the scope
of the maintenance side of the contract by including routine, recurrent and even periodic maintenance.
C.           Single-man Contractors
6.           The single-man contractor system of routine maintenance involves a contract between
an individual and the district government, in which the individual agrees to perform all routine
maintenance activities to specified standards for a predetermined payment on a fixed length of road
using hand tools provided by the government. The single-man contractor (also known as the "length-
man") system is widely used in developing countries and has produced excellent results when used in
relatively well populated areas in which each single-man lives along side or close to the stretch of
road s/he maintains. Living in close proximity to the road means that the single-man has easy access
to the work and can devote "spare" moments to the work when that is an advantage. Close proximity
also strengthens the tendency for single-men to be "known by the quality of their work." Superior
performance may bring a small measure of status and recognition from local people, while it is easy
to identify the "culprit" if performance is poor. Single-man contractors are normally local farmers or
laborers who are underemployed. Their work as "single-men" varies seasonally, but usually is
calculated to average about twelve working days per month in order to leave time for their other
work.
7.           One of the keys to a successful single-man system is the quality of the overseers (in
this case probably DFR's road foremen, posted to the districts involved), who must inspect the roads
at regular (initially frequent) intervals, issue and account for tools, keep pay records, and pay the
single-man contractors. Single-man contractor systems require timely payment of the contractors and
close monitoring of results. Irregular payment quickly leads to deterioration in the quality of work,
just as regular payment for shoddy work also leads to rapid deterioration. Payment must be
contingent on satisfactory performance and only satisfactory performance. Overseers must be subject
to supervision (in this case probably the DFR Area Engineer and a responsible official from the
district government). Supervisors must inspect the roads at regular intervals (perhaps once a month),
spot check wage payments and arbitrate any disputes which may have occurred between overseers and
contractors.
8.           NFRRMP should not simply adopt the GHA single-man system without first
considering its suitability for feeder roads. Descriptions of GHA's system seem to suggest that it may
be "force account conducted by another means." Also, GHA's single-men are providing routine
maintenance for mostly asphalt surfaced roads, while NFRRMP contemplates the maintenance of
gravel surfaced roads. Finally, a quick, "roadside inspection" of GHA's single-man system suggests
that its results are far from satisfactory. One wonders whether there is actual positive impact on the
useful life of the road from the "maintenance" performed.
D.           Labor-Intensive Contractors
9.           The labor-based contractor system of routine maintenance would involve a contract
between the district government and a labor based contractor for performance of all routine
maintenance activities over a fixed length of road for a fixed time period. Discussion of a labor



- 113 -
Annex 4-10
Page 3 of 6
based contractor system has to be a bit more hypothetical than the discussion of single-man systems,
because there isn't nearly as much experience with maintenance by contractors (particularly labor
based contractors) as there is with single-man (or length-man) systems in developing countries.
10.          Use of labor-based contractors for maintenance would have two significant
advantages: (1) the labor based contractor could provide a flexible and diversified maintenance system
and (2) the labor based contractor has an incentive to innovate more efficient and effective ways of
organizing the work. The labor based contractor owns some equipment and has certain technical
knowledge which might be useful in insuring quality maintenance. The labor based contractor would
be free to deploy and redeploy laborers, to choose to use his equipment or hire more laborers and to
perform maintenance works during those periods in which it is economically and technically most
feasible rather than having the timing of maintenance activities driven by agricultural seasons. If he
felt that it would be efficient, a labor based contractor might simply set up his/her own single-man
system of maintenance. In this case, he would assume the role of the overseer discussed with
reference to the single-man system. As an owner, the labor based contractor has the right to
appropriate all residual funds as profit. This right creates a powerful a priori incentive for the labor
based contractor to make rational use of resources and to innovate more efficient ways of organizing
the work.
11.          The biggest drawback to a labor based contractor system of routine maintenance in
Ghana may be the small number of such contractors. In theory, some of the savings which a
contractor may realize through innovation will be captured by the district when the maintenance
contract is re-bid. However, this theoretical possibility depends on the existence of genuine
competition, which is very difficult to insure in the absence of a large number of potential bidders.
Since there are only a small number of such contractors in all of Ghana, it would appear unlikely that
several of them would be available to bid in a particular district. DFR should do all that it can to
increase the number of labor based contractors. Further easing of the constraint caused by the
relatively small number of labor based contractors could be sought by using the "pool" of labor based
contractors that have been trained, but not yet equipped. There are currently twenty-five equipped
contractors of this type. NFRRMP and the districts may wish to consider making all contractors,
equipment based and labor based, eligible to bid on maintenance contracts.
12.          DFR and NFRRMP may wish to encourage the use of labor based contractors for
routine maintenance simply to increase the opportunities available to labor based contractors. It
would add some diversity to the work opportunities that labor based contractors have and it might
help smooth out seasonal fluctuations in their work load and cash flow.
13.          If one can assume genuine competitive bidding, the labor based contractor system
might be the simplest system for districts and DFR to administer. The burdens of organization of the
actual maintenance work, daily supervision (if that is required), payment to workers, provision of
tools and the accounting that must accompany these activities are accepted by the contractor.
E.            Contracting with Intermediary Organizations
14.          The term "intermediary organizations" is very nebulous. Its use in this context is for
lack of a better term. The term is intended to emphasize that this organization may have been formed



- 114 -
Annex 4-10
Page 4 of 6
to represent and promote the interests of its members. Frequently, the organization has no "natural"
or obvious connection to feeder roads. Poverty oriented non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are
the most conmmon developing country example of intermediary organizations that sometimes contract
for road maintenance. A second "class" of intermediary organizations might be broadly labeled as
"user groups," where the term denotes groups whose members have an identifiable economic interest
in the condition of the road(s) in question. For example, such groups might consist of the owners of
commercial transport services or the producers of products whose value is highly sensitive to
transport costs or timeliness. The basic distinction between the two types of intermediary groups is
the presence or absence of an economic interest in the road.
15.          There is a way in which NGOs and user groups may be alike. Both kinds of
intermediary groups may be and frequently are organized as "nonprofits." This does not mean that
the group cannot profit from its activities, but it does mean that profits are not directly and
automatically appropriable by individuals, whether they be group members or employees. This
contrasts with the situation in a for profit organization, e.g. a labor based contractor, in which the
owner can be very certain in advance of undertaking the work that s/he will immediately and
automatically benefit from efficient work. The implication is that members and employees of non-
profits are likely to have a weaker motivation to innovate more efficient ways of working than owners
of for profit firms.
16.          Poverty oriented NGOs can be organized as for profit firms, but this type of
organization is relatively rare, especially in road maintenance --- for apparently good reason if one
looks at the incentives involved. Poor persons are relatively risk averse. They will usually prefer the
security and frequent, regular payment of a wage over dhe uncertainty and infrequent payment of a
profit. Theoretically, poverty oriented NGOs might orgarnize as for profit firms, with all employees
receiving a more or less certain wage and a less certain profit. However, the use of labor intensive
technologies and the costs of contracting decrease the likelihood that profits will serve as a significant
motivator of individual workers in this context. Labor intens.ve technologies and contracting costs
tend to increase the number of workers involved per contract. 'Therefore, the individual worker has a
very weak incentive to work hard or efficiently; since any profits due to these special efforts will be
shared with a very large number of other workers. Conversely. s/ht may have an incentive to shirk
because large groups make shirking more difficult to detect and the effect of shirking on his/her total
income will be negligible.
17.          Relative to poverty oriented NGOs, user groups may have a number of advantages in
undertaking feeder road maintenance. These advantages arise out of their relatively explicit economic
interest in roads. Because user groups are organized around these interests, they tend to be more
aware of their interests and more able to calculate the extent of their interests. Improving road
maintenance may or may not be a part of the user group's agenda. This depends, in part, on how
open to influence responsible officials have been in the past.
18.          Users groups are the only potential maintainers of roads who might contribute to the
costs of maintenance. Where the benefits of maintenance are large relative to the costs, users may
fund and organize maintenance with little reference to the responsible government agency. There are
instances of sustained maintenance efforts of this type in developing countries. One even senses a bit
of this in Ghana with respect to log haulers and bus operators. District officials report that they are



115 -
An-nex 4-i10
Page 5 of 6
frequently approached by individual users who are willing to contribute to maintenance of a particular
road that they use. Granted, these users are not seeking routine maintenance. They rarely approach
officials until the road is badly deteriorated.
19.          Members of road related users groups tend to be in a position to accept more risk than
members of poverty oriented NGOs. They could accept the risk of organizing a for profit group, but
they have no specific need for profits or wages from the users group. They have other sources of
income. Because they are not seeking jobs, they may be more objective in choosing between labor
intensive and capital intensive technologies for maintenance.
20.          User group members who, based on their economic interest in road services, assume
part or all of the costs of maintenance have a set of incentives that are very different than members of
a poverty oriented NGO. Whereas NGO members want to engage in production of road maintenance,
that is they want to clean ditches, cut the grass, etc; user group members have an incentive to have a
say in the decision making about how much maintenance should be done, how it should be organized,
who should do it, etc. They would do this in order to protect their investment and to control the
costs to themselves. These decision making activities are referred to by economists as provision
activities. The distinction is significant because normally one thinks of governments as the providers
of public goods such as roads.
F.           Summary
21.          In summary, user groups have superior incentives to maintain particular feeder roads
in which they have an economic interest. They may actually contribute to the costs of maintenance,
but they are likely to want, in retum, to influence decision making about maintenance.
22.          Furtl.er investigation of existing and potential user groups should be undertaken. The
following potential and actual user groups were identified:
(a)    The various road transport unions, including Ghana Private Road Transport Union
(GPRTU), Ghana Cooperative Transport Union (GCTU) and Ghana Progressive
Transport Union (GPTU). GPRTU is by far the largest in terms of membership and
geographic coverage. GPRTU collects and remits to central government certain
revenues (taxes and/or fees?) at transport terminals. It is believed that the other two
associations also do this at the terminals that they "control."
(b)    Local and/or national associations of market women. Whether such associations exist
is not known.
(c)    Associations of producers and/or transporters of products whose value is highly
sensitive to transport costs, quality or timeliness. Examples of such groups might
include producers and/or transporters of logs, fresh seafood, pineapples, fresh
tomatoes, etc. Whether such associations exist is not known.
(d)    Log hauling is an important economic activity with substantial impact on the condition
of feeder roads in some Digricts. Log haulers are involved in both the "demand" and



- 116 -
Annex 4-1O
Page 6 of 6
"supply" sides of feeder road maintenance. They contribute to demand for road
maintenance because they are among the heaviest vehicles to use the road and heavy
vehicles tend to do more damage to the road surface per trip than light vehicles.
They contribute to the supply of road maintenance by providing part of the funding
for the limited, sporadic "maintenance" which currently occurs.
23.          GPRTU and its rivals should also be investigated further. One important
characteristic to be determined is the degree to which local "chapters" have autonomy to undertake
locally initiated and controlled activities.
24.          Tlere may be other types of intermediary organizations potentially interested in
routine feeder road maintenance. For example, the traditional structures of Ghanaian societv, tribes,
may be worth investigating. It is difficult in this brief report to cover the topic exhaustively.
25.          The preceding sections serve as an example of the kind of analysis that might be
applied to additional intermediary groups, to contractors, to the district governments and to DFR
itself during the early years of NFRRMP. There will be a need for much analysis, experimentation
and implementation support if the project is to succeed in achieving its objective of sustained feeder
road maintenance.
APUN
November 1991
(RoutMain.NFR)



- l117 -
Annlex 4-11
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GH? NA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROAD$ REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
District lResource Mobilization Potential
1.           District Assemblies obtain revenue from a variety of soucces including, but not limited
to
(a)    Rate collections, based on the value of property and possessions;
(b)    "Special rates" which can be collected from persons over 18, resident district-wide or
in differentiated sub-districts for specific purposes;
(c)    Fees on various trading, marketing and productive enterprises;
(d)    Licenses for various business activities such as hawking, hotels, restaurants, liquor
sales, taxi cabs and lorry parks; and
(e)    Miscellaneous collections such as court fees, fines and town hall receipts.
2.           The major source of locally generated revenues is rates collected on property and
possessions. District Assemblies set property rates and fees within national guidelines. Fees, licenses
and miscellaneous local collections account for very little and are directly dependant on the size and
economic condition of the district. Income taxes are neither collected by, nor allocated to, local
governments.
3.           There is wide variation among districts in revenue generating capacity. Districts in
which major economic activities are located, e.g. mines or timber harvesting operations, generate
significantly more income from business registration fees than do districts in poorer regions. Districts
in the northern areas of Ghana arc especially poor.
4.           Some local government revenues defined in PNDC Law 207 are collected by the
national government's Internal Revenue Service (IRS) because taxation and administration of
collection are more efficiently organized at the national level. These are known as "ceded" funds;
since IRS turns revenues over to the Ministry of Local Government, which then disburses funds to
districts on the basis of a revenue sharing formula in order to balance disparities between districts.
5.           The revenue sharing formula employs fairly coarse indicators which result in
disbursements based on:
-     A be amount provided to all districts;



- 118 -
Annex 4-11
Page 2 of 3
-     A population factor including relative numbers and density; and
-     A dQvelopment status factor based on rough indices of poverty levels, relative access
to development resources, level of infrastructure development, etc.
6.            A rough estimate of funds collected from and redistributed to all 110 districts under
the revenue sharing system is:
1989         C 230 million (US$658,000)
Note: several estimates were given for this year, the highest being C
300 million. The estimate given by MLG headquarters has been used
here.
1990         C 260 million (US$743,000)
1991         C 1 billion (US$2,858,000) The increase over 1989 and 1990 figures
is due to the addition of billboard advertising tax and transport owners
tax to the ceded \inds pool.
The dramatic increase in 1991 ceded revenues is a significant indicator of the central govermnent's
commitment to increasing district revenues.
7.            Additional evidence of the natior al government's commit-ment to increasing local
government revenues is provided by the following facts:
-     A national effort to improve collecti ' of local government revenues has been
organized by the National Mobilization Program in which local branches of the
Committee for the Defense of the Revolution are organizing village trade associations
(e.g. tailors, hair dressers, etc.). The local heads of these associations are collecting
the relevant taxes, fees and license charges from the membership and being paid a
commission to do so.
As of 1991, agencies of the national government are required to pay property rates to
the districts in which properties are located. Previously, government agencies were
exempt.
-     The intention to funnel most of the resources presently controlled by the decentralized
departments to the districts remains intact.
8.            Some district governments have set up local enterprises (e.g. bakeries, concrete block
manufacturing and others) to be operated by the district government on a "for profit" basis. This
should be discouraged due to the consistently poor performance of such enterprises in the past and the
chilling effect of such enterprises on private entrepreneurs.
9.            Three studies concerning district finances have recently been initiated. Topics of the



- 119 -
Annex 4-11
Page 3 of 3
studies are (1) revenue sharing, specifically including the possibility of revising the present formula
for calculating district shares; (2) fiscal decentralization, focusing on acceptable standards for
accounting and auditing at the district level; and (3) the property rate (tax) structure, focusing on
inconsistencies between Legislative Instrument 1049 and Basic Law 42.
AF4IN
November 1991
(ReMobPot.NFR)



REPUBLIC OF BHANA
National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
CHECK FORPULAS                             Summary Project Costs
Local    Taxes    Foreign     Total              Local    Taxes    Foreign      Total
A.REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                         (US$ million)                                       (CedS mi?tion)
1. Rehabilitation by Contract                        21.95     2.98     17.58      42.50               8,231    1,116      6,591    15,938
2. Regravelling by Contract                           9.83     1.50     10.05       21.38              3,687      561      3,767     8,016
3. Spot Improvement/Culverts by Contract              3.60     0.35      1.05       5.00               1,350      131        394     1,875
4. Maintenance & Uorkshop Equip., Tools & Spares      0.30     0.20      3.54        4.04                112       76      1,327     1,515
5. Design and Supervision                             1.27     0.08      1.36        2.71                478       30        508     1,017
Subtotal                                             36.96     5.10     33.57       75.63             13,858    1,914     12,587    28,360
S. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
1. Management Line Positions                          0.25     0.02      0.98       1.24                  93        6        366       465
2. Technical Line Positions                           0.25     0.00      1.43        1.68                 95        0        536       630
3. United Nations Volunteers (UNV) Support            0.08    0.01       0.09        0.18                 32        2         34        68
4. Studies                                            0.25     0.00      0.61        0.86                 94        1        228       324
5. Training                                           0.30     0.03      0.97        1.29                113       10        362       485
6. Local Construction Industry Support                0.50     0.23      4.07       4.79                 186       84      1,525     1,796
7. Rural Mobility and Environment                     0.77     0.10      1.11        1.98                289       37        417       743
8. DFR Decentralization Support                       0.76     0.05      0.56        1.36                286       17        209       512
Subtotal                                              3.16     0.42      9.80       13.39              1,187      157      3,677     5,021
Total Project Base Cost                                40.12     5.52     43.37      89.02              15,045    2,072     16,264    33,381
Physical Contingencies                                3.79     0.52      3.46       7.77               1,421      196      1,297     2,913
Price Contingencies                                   5.08     0.70      3.47       9.25               3,831      525      3,211     7,567
Total Project Cost                                     48.99     6.74     50.30      106.03             20,297    2,793     20,771    43,861
0I



1b ~ik                                                                                    R@8MC OF GAN
TOTAL.                 YEAR 2: 1A14-DEC 1992           YEAR 2: JAN-DEC 1993          YEAR 3: JAN-DBt 1994            YEAR 4: )AN-DEC 29M            YEARS5: JAN-DEC 199
(38FOM109                                       LOC  TAX  FOR  TOT  LOC TAX  FOR  TOT  LJOC  TAX  FOR  TO`r  LOC  TAX  FOR   TOTl  LOC TAX  FOR   TOr  LJOC  TAX  FOR   TOTr
A. FEEER ROADS REIInJAULTA1 N* AND MADIT8ANCE PROGRAM
.. RibmM.48. by Cusad
a. Cqvku2&ow Caiaot 4I.RXIm k4,9    2,2   1  5,27   32.38    2,24                             341   2,291   4,87    3.738    30   3.819  8,123   4.483    683   4,583   9.75D  3.738    569   3,829  8.125    748           114    764   2,623
b. Lmbhcw~bamloCgs4tAO0=b*                           7,96     780   2,323  A0.X)  2.40        203    343   2,38    1.730      17$    373   2,MW    2.IOD    210    69    3.OM3   1.738    175    575   2,30         350      33    115    596
RSaOa Rebb    Udw a by Caom                         21,938   2,97   I7?37   42.38    3.293    446   2,636   6.37$   3.438    744   4.394  10,625   6.583    893   S,273  22,750   5,488    744   4394  10,825   1.098    14         879   2,125
IL C92aa2-bcmEw CbduaabE2MM3                         9,433   1.496  10,046  21,373    983     153   2003   ,238   1,367    299   2,00    4,27    2,930    449   3,024   6,413  2,950    449   3,014   0,415    083          238   2,003   2,38
Sub 28Rq      tCuin b   o8a                          9,833   1.496  10.046  21.375    33       238   1.96    2.23    1,967    299   2.009   4.275   2.938    449   3.014  6,413   2,93       449   3,014  6.413   933        238   2.965   2,138
3. So  bopmoxam0hiona byCo   *b
&. .Lhar4~~molCaamast7Ub0                            3,30     330   2,050   3.0010    36D      35    203    SOD    720         38    210   2.00W   2,08      205    32$   2.30   2,0801   203       315  1.500    396        35    205    SOD
S-W 1S   i.*wA3dvAW. tCcd*                           3,810    350   1,050   SAW0       36D      33    203    930    72D        38    210   2.0W0   2.080    10$    32$   2."    2,08         205    325   SAW0      3D       35    S0$      SW0-
4. u.M mm  Wa   .p Equip, Taah & Spam.
s, Rcuaum  akommSOO=                                   43      43    820    gm          0       0       0       0      23      23    405    438       23      23    405      438      0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0
b. RVIW MUL 59A AW WOWYCVO3S                     s0    30   2.000         0       0       0       0      23      23    430    30        23      23    450   5S0         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
c. R         m    c2m  2s03nmm Humbools               los     2I       LU3D    3       26       4      43      15      26       4     43   75         26       4      43     75      26       4      45   73          0       0      0       0
&.Wc.bepEquigamas Toob,Sp- P.                          30      30     340    600        0       0       a       0      Is    I1$    238    XC         is      1$    238      3W       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
*. VoMbu frDER                                          a6     A      720    80        20      20    360    410        20      2D    360    400        0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
t. M3bil As"                                           Is      Is    238    XC          0       0       0       0       a      8     235    238        8       8    235    238        0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0
g. OS3m-Eqdpl                                         a22       4      56      38       0       0       0       0      $       2      28      33       5       2     38      35       0       a       0       0       0      0       0       0
ILTk ini; qu2pmw 2AWd                                   4       4      63      38       0       0       0       0       2      2      32      35       2       2      32     33       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0
8.hoa2E.AwkTcoa        A Spom.                         299    292   3.39 4,W           46      24    405    473    123         97   1,725   2.943    103      77   2.363   t.543      26       4     43      73       0       0       0       0
1. R.gdamisim
S.re            o_(tw3 lm1                            593  3X         6312   ,262    297       19   326    631    297         29    316    6312        0              0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0
b. Wmb SWM.vlinCWf*A230mhz0                           682      43    723   1.449    102         7     109    217    178       22    l82    362    238         22    182     362    238       it    l82    362       68       4      72    243
SdW*W 3mlgmad Suinvislo                              1.274      8t   2.33    2,711    399      25    424    84        467      30    497    993    238        22    182      362    238       22    282    362       St       4      72    243
BASE Ir         ROADS RENA MAlNT. MROO. COSl    36,956   3,035 33,36   73,626   .082    68    4,57  10,336   8,764   I,"    8,83   28,838  20,88    1,34  10.147  22,538   9.714  1.312   7.949  28,975   2,509                338  2,062   4,907
PWYSCAL CONTD         e bCIES                          3,#1D    5S2   3      :22i  7.292    468  63  423    949    830    122          834  2,783   1,07      2152    997   2,221    954    13        577   1.861    244       33    199    476
PRICTCONTIN4GENIES                                     4,728    652   2,875   8,242    347       47    140    534    894    227    433   1,434   1,438    203   8m     2,748   I.S            24   2,039    2.I 9     434      61    392    9072
TOTAL FSEDER ROADS RDL & MAWN. PROG. COSr  43,242   6,2$9  39.6S9  92.2160  3,896    79    3,230  11,819  10,488  1.488  2%0,20   22,07 123.338  I.89  21191  27,269  22,25    1,637   9.195  23.383   3.1207    432  2.62   6,291 
X  b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
021
4t WTS



1. awfi3ITWALsu3JwO FtOGRAM
I. -mp    UN 3 ad
C C M04k=P       SSpd Kb   0i  NW                    g        0     5t6      639        9       0       St      do      23       0     1 0      ISO      23       0     I3       330      23       0     133     133      14       0       7?      g0
bUO3Ast. I          T 3pc.(3O1- .0                   50 S     0     331      330        0       0       0        0      20       0      132     132      2)       0     132     132       to       a      56      66       0       0        0       0
O. .*Mbh433I (hW56mS o3                              39       6      66      It0        4       I        7      II      30t      I      3 7     20       30       I      1 7     20       30       I      37      20       6        3      t0      3?
&06wh wjmi by  M au                                 20       30     In       239        I       3       12      20      is       3      20       so      Is       3      20      SD       i3       3      20      so       It       2      33      20
MAWI   M             LM   U    PO                   268       If    977    3,20        20        2      30      93      0p        4     20      360      0        4      236     360      60       4     MD0    294        30       2     30      3.37
LT*dw  opa
L M.MIM" pCWM  b                 NN03M                      0      573      672       0        0       0       a       so       0     20      336      SD        0     236     336       0       0        0       0       0       0        a       a
un iat b            cm                               30       0 206          336       0        0       0       0       20       0     143     363       25       0     343     163       0        o       a       o       0       0        0       a
C. Ro     1bft 3  pewbp4C wh                        S         0     216      336       0        0       0        0      20       0     143     163      20        0     l4a     163       0       0        a       a       0       0        0       0
&dN"4MAw1yUMW                                        in    0   286   336    a                   0       0        0    20    0   143  log   20    0   I43  M6                              0    0    0    a                 a    a           0    0
SAWAITS"WLk* PhOW252    03,.433,1630                                       0       0    0           0   126    0   734   30   326    0   734   40                             0       0    0    0              0       0    0    0
mR.M    &Ih 4u" me5I                                   5      go       I 0       0        0       0       0      42        3      45      90      42       3       45      so       0       0       0        0       0       0       a       0
aftu..Vd(Uism"Ma9u                                   Is    5   go   lo0    0                     0    0          0    42          3    45   go   42               3    45   90    0    0    0    a                          a    0    0    0
an. &Uhad a   o3wtt11 n)o M"                        72    0   216   263   72    0   216  3M                              0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    a
kFsmos Raw an M0m.giinmQ0s                          320    0   30    410               0        0    0          0   320    0   360  410                  0    0    0              0    0    0    0                 0    0    0              0    0
c- sodeommmbhm- sm    mob5                       3      33       95       9        0       5       14      I5       I       a      24      35        I       a      24      i5        I       3      24       6       0        3      30
SOWdShdbo                             ~~~~201    3    63       3so        33       0      233     302     135        3    36B    304        35       I       3       24      3s       I       a      24        4       0       3       to
S.Tubb
" mnamodTabbs                          1~~9    13    63         60        0       0        0       0       6        4     132     392       6        4     332     192       6       4      132     192       2       3       63      64
b. t    Lm em  4wre"Tubbe3                          236d  Z  14      42      282      333       7      21      343     113       7      21    343        0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0
e..lhTm   Tuhbs T.A,   CH5 6                                  0     336      372       14       0      79       93      14       0      79      93       14       0      19      93      34       0       79      93       0       0        0       0
MWATob                                              23m      27    967       ,294     I2V        7     360    234      133      II1    203      426      20       4    261    335         20       4     261     285        2       3      63      64I
6   d mwd ,4                 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I.-
a.Lmdam.'- Awme(I33                                  72    0   216   38    12    0   216   381    0    0    0    0                                        0    0    0    0                0    0           0    0          0    0           0    a                        N)i
k.  m &okCmt.hhsViqiini                             420      25      so      300        0       0       0        0     339       3      IS      330     120       3      35     33D      138       3      Is     330      43        3       5      so0N
. WI Ldin.U.iCul dmm39Sipt                           0     20D   3.101    4,6001       0       0        0       0       0     MD   3,3601  4,00          0       0       0        0       0       0       0       a        0       0       0       0 
MWA Od  AdCInMCdl3rfSqIp.                           49?     225   4,06    4.73         72       0      216     38      I3      MB   3,335   4.350       320       3       I5     130     339       a      I5      330      43       3       S      91
7. Ro uf =I Emk,             .
a. bm=Wbu   M        u (opmn                       310       74   1.036    1.480       56      II1    135     222      93       39    259      320     III       22    331    444        93       39     259     320      39       4       52      74
kTmrl d                               233       33      20      23        32       2        4      33      53       3       6      63       64       4       3      75      53        3       6      63      33        I       3       33
C. S NMiOadWSewmapo                                 3n       33      30      250      28        2       3      38       47       3      3 3     651     16        4      is      75      47        3      3 3     63       9        I       3      33
SAWARMd'sI-) u73                                99   3,333    3.910)    116        IS  3167    297        393      20     213      495     231      30     333     594      393      20     213     493       39       5      56      99
L. MR DmMvd  Vw
e.liilmaAmil(2=f)                                   29        0     363      192        7       0      43       43       7       0      41      43       7       0       41      43       7       0       43      43       0       0       0        a
kDwIaff09s2m4n)2"                                  333       20     260      672      96        5      67      l63      96       5      67     363      96        S      67     363      96       5       67     163       0       0       0        0
&t.   uIinWmtuIDW m ad  k*FtrA                     350       25     125      SW)      a         6      31      120      so       6      33     320      a3        6      31    320       63       6       31    325        0       0       0        0
a0FfDM mmab&Wm iyw3                                 743      45     57    3.364       190      I33     139     341     190      33      3 39    341    390       33     3 39    341    390        331    139     341        0       0       0       0
LMEgI3ummITMIAL31SU9ORT FROG. COSTr                  3,365    420   9,104   33,33        MS       35      933   3.5    3,035    262   5,928   ?,205        323      60   3.303   2,633      du4      52     932   3,53       U39      II1    220    359
1IIYUCALCOKTU~~~~~~~IO8                3ZI       20      207      417      42        3      33      73      6         5      64    132       55       5       67     120      52       5      63      Ila       3       3      32      23
M 3CUHI3KM 4M                                     365       46     so9    I,lo9      41        2      27      09      303      20     263     394     305       3      341    254       97       3      3in     zz       23       2      42      65
TOrAL M MIRNOAL UflOT PROG. COST                     3,73      435  30.40   14,675                41    972   1.701   3,179    29    6,210   7,731    912           73   2,030   3,065      7S3      65   3,335   1.934      343      34   233       445
LMEFW0 mIcOS                                        60.121   5,524  403,30   319,015   5,63      715   5433  33,33    9,779   l,3K2  14.762  26,044  33,209   1,594  11.930  20,203  10.316   3,34   3,33   30,56    2,62            349   2,29    5.256
F83TmaLa3ITlGmom                                    3.7183    522   3,456    7,763      530      09     448   3,07    393        126    397   1,916   1,327       358   1.064   2,348   1.006    1335      8     1.979    202       34      233     496
?      03KTU61ENCM                               5.M3      G97   3,472    9.252      389       49     367     603     995     152      31   3,843   1,543    233       973   2,M3   3,632       223   1.191   3,096      475      63     434     972                      , 
TOrM.DROSWTO3ST                        43,~~~~~~993   6,744  33   1030,035   6,534  333   3,102  13,519  11.667   3,78D10 33,63  29,8108  34,310   3,962  13.991 30,333  33,006   1.7n3  30,930  250.63    3,355        446   2,935   3,736                           :
0H1LD 1313029    2,793  20,77    43,363    Mot3    329   2,430   5,30   4,725                                                     723   6,626  32.01    5,963      814   5,306  12,513   5,3        73    4,6537  30.39    3,476     196   3.29    2,964                      M (
BASE ftWfl~ff OTfC5        X - MMLIN                135.045   2,07   13,264   33.381   2,332     263   2,053   4,438  3,667       563   5.536   9,766   4,393      591   4.433   9,420   3,86       532   3,320   7.711    35s    1333        59   3975                       L)x
FUTCAL C3muIGR4EN 413 (C               3dU.L10)    1,423      196   3,297    2,933      393      26      363     335    335       47     336     739      423      59     39   9  33      377       531    334     742      95       33      79     It374
ftKC1NflU GE7UC8ES(CEDI-MI3,UAOt)                   3,33      520   3,233    7,567      Mfi      335     134     497     723     330     754  31567   1,354       157     927   2,233  13231    120    9M         ,443    396        53     354     U20                              
TOTAL IWO18T  COST (C .  MUAJON)                    2029    2,793  A77        43,361   2.603     329,  2,410   5,340   4,725      723   6.66  32,07    5,963       314   5,306  32,3   S"5          73    4,637  106396   347        396   3,29    2,964                          N)i
aHEL39f                                            43,99    3,744  3200306,035O   3,534         833   3,302  33,59  11.367    .7130  36,36   29.33  34,310   3.962  13,993  30.33   13.036   1.m2  10,90  250.3    3,35             446   2,935   3,736



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Detailed Financing Plan
LOCAL    TAXES    FOREIGN    TOTAL
-----    .....    -------    -----                                           COFINANCING
(Total Cost with Contingencies)                                 ---------------------------------
. fEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM              (USS '000)                        IDA      GOG        USAID   DANIDA     OPEC      JAPAN
1. RehabiLitation by Contract
a. Capital-Intensive Contracts (1,500 km)       18,322    2,788    18,101       39,211       31,565    5,146                          2,500
b. Labor-intensive Contracts (1,000 km)          8,579       858     2,726      12,162                             6,003     6,159
Subtotal Rehabilitation by Contract              26,901    3,646    20,827       51,373       31,565    5,146       6,003     6,159    2,500          0
2. Regravelling by Contract
a. Capital-Intensive Contracts (2,850 kIn)       12,135    1,847    12,028      26,010       13,932    2,456       4,684     2,438    2,500
Subtotat Regravelling by Contract                12,135    1,847    12,028      26,010        13,932    2,456       4.684     2,438    2,500          0
3. Spot Improvement/Culverts by Contract
a. Labor-Intensive Contracts (720 km)            4,443       432     1,257      6,132                              6,132
Subtotal Spot Improvements/Culvs. by Contract    4,443        432     1,257      6,132             0                6,132         0        0          0
4. Maintenance and Workshop Equipment, Tools & Spares
a. Recurrent Maintenance Spares                     55        55       944       1,054          999       55
b. Routine faint. Equip.& Spares/Motorcycles        61        61     1,049       1,171        1,110       61
c. Routine Maintenance Handtools                    128       18       211        357           339       18
d. Workshop Equipment, Tools, Spare Parts           37        37       630         703          666       37
e. Vehicles for DFR                                 47        47       821        916           869       47
f. Mobile Radios                                     18       18       315        351           333       18
g. Office Equipment                                  13        4        65          82           78        4
h. Training Equipment and Aids                       4         4        73          82           78        4
Subtotal Equipment, Tools & Spares                  363       245     4,109      4,717         4,472      244           0         0        0          0
5. Design and Supervision
a. Engineering Design Consultants (200 m/m)        639        41       654      1,334           292       40                                     1,002
b. Works Supervision Consultants (230 km)          760        49       784      1,593         1,544       49
Subtotal Design and Supervision                   1,400        89     1,438      2,927         1,836       89           0         0        0      1,002
SUBTOTAL FEEDER ROADS REHAB. & MAINTENANCE PROGRAM   45,242    6,259    39,659        91,160       51,805    7,935      16,819     8,597    5,000      1,002
4I-
0 



B. INSTITUTIOAL SUPPORT PRIOMM
1. MIrgemet Line Positfons
a. Contract Manageeent Specalit (56 Wrm)             101        0       556         657           657        0
b. iLo Ltbor-b sed Training Spec. (30 Wnm)            55        0        301        356           356        0
c.  ualifled Accoimtants in  RN (2x56 Wm)             43        6         72        121           121        0
d. ProJect Swpprt by NRN                              79       11        131        220           206       14
Subtotat Management Lfne Positlons                   278        17      1.059      1,354         1,340       14           0         0         0         0
2. Technical Line Positions
a. Medinicat Specialists (2x24 sNV)                 112        0       605         717                      0                   717
b. Plannfng Specialist (24 Wim)                       56        0       303         359                      0                   359
c. Road Maintenance Specialist (24 r"r)               56        0       303         359                      0                   359
d. Ceputer Systems Analyst (24 Wim)                   56        0       303         359                      0                   359
Subtotol Technical Line Positions                     279        0      1,514      1.793             0        0           0     1,794         0         0
3. United Nations VoLunteers (UMV) Support
a. Field Civil Engineers CSx24 rWM)                  94         6        95         195           189        6
Subtotal U.N. Volunteers (tEV) Support                 94        6         95        195           189        6           0         0         0         0
4. Studies
a. Organization & Management Study (18 m/m)           77        0       222         299                      0                                       299
b. Feeder Road Ntce Mgmt. System (30 rm/)            131        0       376         507                      0                   507                                     1
c. Socio-Economic Iqect Study (27 n/M)              66         3         36        105           105        3
Subtotal Studies                                      273        3       634         911           105        3           0       507         0       299
5. Training
a. OFR External Training                              24       16       729         769                     16         753
b. Koforidua Labour-based Training School           267        17         48        332                     17         315
c. Short-Temn Training T.A. (24 r/n)                  62        0       338         399                      0         399
Sultotal Tre!ning                                    353        33      1,115      1,500             0       33       1.467         0         0         0
6. Local Construction Industry Support
a. Local Constr. Industry Assesment (18 0sm)          77        0        222        299                      0                                       299
b. Oomestic Contractor Training Program              526       31         60        617                     31         586
c. Light Labor-Based Contractor Equipment              0      219     3.970       4,189                    219       1,976     1.994
Subtotal Local Construction Industry Support          602      250     4,252       5,104             0      250       2.562     1,994         0       299
7. Rurat Mobility and Environeunt
a. Intermediate Means of Transport                  453        91      1,228      1,772                     91                 1,687
b. Tree Planting                                     260       15         30        305                      15        152        138
c. Environment and Women Support                     230       15         59        304                     15                   289
Subtotal Rural Nobility and Environment              944       121      1.317      2,382             0      121         152     2.108         0         0
8. DFR Decentralization Support
a. Institutional Analyst (12 rn/)                    35         0        192        227           227        0
b. Decentralization Staff (144 m/m)                 466        25       316         806           761       45                                                            >
c. Decentralization Support and Study Fund          426        30        147        603           573       30                                                         P
Subtotal DFR Decentralization Support                927        55        654      1,636         1,561       75           0         0         0         0               (D X
x
SUBTOTAL INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROGRAM                   3.750      485    10,640      14,875         3.195       502      4,181      6,403        0        598              N) z-
0 P
TOTAL PRJECT                                            48,991    6.744    50,300    106,035         55,000    8,437      21,000    15,000    5,000       1.600



-125 
-   -   ________   ___________ __________--A nnex                           4-14
6'                               a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PaeIo 
ay                                                     a



Reoublic of Ghana
National Feeder Roads Rehabiitation and Maintenance ProLect (NFRRMP)
Schedule for Processina Procurement and Implementation
1992                      1993                       1994                               1995                       1996
Components   pcurinet ddwerie                Q2Q3Q4QIQ2Q3                          Q4    QI  Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4
A. Civi Wodcs
2. Regmavling
a. Sdction d design
phas I                                    Done
Phase 2                                   xxzxxxxx
Phase 3                       _
Phase 4                                                                                  _KTVVxVTxTYWTxVWTWxW
b. Tendering
Phaw I                                    xxxxxx
Pbase 2                                                      _
Phase 3                                                                                  _
Phae4 4xx
c. Execution
Phan I 
Phase 2                                                                                _                                                                                      I..'
Phase4 3 
Q2   Q3   Q4  QI    Q2   Q3    Q4    QI-  Q2  TQ3    Q4    Q                   l Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql    Q2    Q3    Q
M0 D
0'



127                       Annex 4-14
Page 3 of 6
a! 'aL ]X  |  ]] j
E l
&   It
Ga_   j _ N                     a .  V 1  3 i
a                            ai



Republic of Ghana
National Fecdcr Roads Rebabilitation and M itenn  Proje  NFRRMP)
Schedule fo Processing Prorenent and Imlementation
1992                      1993                     1994                               1995                     1996
Coa-poneu & procurementdeiries              Q2  Q3IQ4IQlIQ2IQ3    IQ4    Ql    Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql    Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3
B. Equipment and Spa]
a. P      _ocuremat documcnts             ruxxx
b. Tedring                                      xxxxxx
c. EvWluationa                                        xMDLXXXX
d. Ddhevy                                                         XXXXXXXmm
C. Studies
1. OhM
a. Procureman documents                   Done
b. Proposls                               Done
c. Evaluation                             xxx
d. Execution                                XXXXXXXXXXXX
0. hnzplemieitation
0I
T.1-
.  a
,   .   .   _   .-  .     .  .              _              -  .               -            .                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



- 129 -
______________                                     ~~~~~~~~~Annex 4-14
:      = J  _      _    |                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PageS of 6
6i11x 



- 130 -                                  Annex 4-14
Page 6 of 6
SI
iC I
rS



- 131 -
Annex 4-15
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILLTATION AND MAINTENANCE PRO.ECT
Supervision Plan
IDA input into the supervision effort as outlined below is in addition to regular
supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc., estimated to require 12 staff weeks per year for the first two project years, and 8 staff
weeks per year thereafter.
Approximate
Dates of Input                           Expected Skill
(mo/yr)              Activity            Requirements                Staff Weeks
6/92                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     5
(Project Launch     Road Engineer
Workshop)           Institutional Specialist
Transport Economist
10/92               Supervision Mission   Task Manager                      3
Road Engineer
2/93                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     3
Institutional Specialist
6/93                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     5
(Coordination with    Road Engineer
USAID and DANIDA) Institutional Specialist
Transport Economist
10/93               Supervision Mission   Task Manager                      3
Road Engineer
2/94                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     3
Institutional Specialist
6/94                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     5
(Coordination with    Road Engineer
USAID and DANIDA) Institutional Specialist
Transport Economist



- 132 -
Annex 4-15
Page 2 of 2
10/94               Mid-Term Project    Task Manager                        6
Review              Road Engineer
Institutional Specialist
Transport Economist
Environmental Specialist
2/95                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     3
Road Engineer
6/95                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     5
(Coordination with    Road Engineer
USAID and DANIDA) Institutional Specialist
Transport Economist
10/95               Supervision Mission   Task Manager                      3
Road Engineer
2/96                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager
Institutional Specialist
6/96                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     5
(Coordination with    Road Engineer
USAID and DANIDA) Institutional Specialist
Transport Economist
10/96               Supervision Mission   Task Manager                      3
Road Engineer
2/97                 Supervision Mission   Task Manager                     5
(PCR Preparation and Road Engineer
Coordination with    Institutional Specialist
USAID and DANIDA) Transport Economist
AF41N
November 1991
(P.NFR)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AN MINTENANCE PROJECT
MONITORING MATRIX
COMPONENT                     ACTIVITY                       PERFORMANCE                    MONITORABLE                    MONITORABLE
INDICATOR                     TARGET BY 6193                 TARGET BY 6194
1. Physical Works             a) Rehabilitaton
Ph. I1- 540Jln
i) Preparation of
Engincrnag Design         Stage of Final Report          Cleared by WB by January,
& Bidding Document                                       1991
ii) Pocurement for           Stage of Completion            Complkt with WBIGOG
Contractors                                              clearance thus:
LCB - October, 1992
ICB - January, 1993
iii) Procurment for           Stage of Completion            Completed. Cleared by
Supervision Consultant                                   WB/GOG. Consulants on
board by April, 1992                                                 w
iv) Actual Construction      Length (km) or percentage of    At least 60% of LCB           At least 100% of LCB,
work done                             30% of ICB                      90% of ICB
completed                      completed
b) Rehabilitation
Ph. 11 - 1140km
i) Preration of              Stage of Final Report         Cleared by WB by October,
Engineering Designs                                      1992
& Bidding Documents
ii) Procurement for          Stage of Completion            Complete with WB/GOG
Contractors                                              clearance thus:                Completed by September,
LCB - July, 1992               1993
ICB - September, 1993
0 I
la%



COMPONENT                    ACTlVITY                     PERFORMANCE                  MONITORABLE                   MONrTORABLE
INDICATOR                    TARGET BY 6193               TARGET BY 6194
Physical Works (cont'd)      iii) Procurement for         Stage of Completion          Complete with WBIGOG
Supervision Consultant                                clearance. Consukant on board
by April, 1993
iv) Actual Consruction      Length (km) or % age of work   Contractors mobilizing to start   At least 95% LCB
done                         LCB                                 66% LCB
c) Rehabilitation
Ph. 111 - 800km
i) Prepartion of           Stage of Fnal Reports        Cleared by WB by June, 1993
Engineering Design &
Bidding Documents
ii) Pocurment for           Documents to be cleared by   Prqualification documents    LCB ready to start
Contractors              WB                           ready                        ICB cleared by WB, being
. _________________                                        __________________           cleared  by  GOG
iii) Procurement for        Documents to be cleared by                                 Proc irmnent documents
supervision consultants  WB/GOG                                                    clearcl by WB. Invitation for
._________ _  proposals issued
iv) Actual Construction     Length (KM) or % age of                                   Contractors mobflizing to
work done                                                 start work
d) Regravelling
Ph. I - 510km
i) Preparation of          Stage of Fmal Reports        To be cleared by WB by
Engieering Design &                                   March, 1992
Bidding Documents
ii) Procurement for         Stage of Completion          Completed and cleared by WB
Contractors                                           by August, 1992
iii) Actual Construction    Length (kin) or % of work     Al least 90% completed
done
c) RcgraveUing
Ph.2 - 670km
i) Prqpartion of           Stage of Final Reports       For clearing by WB by June,                                         >
Engineering Design &                                  1993                                                            oQ:
l __________________              Bidding  Documents
0 l



COMPONRNT                   ACTIVITY                     PERFORMANCE                  MONrrORABLE                  MONITORABLE
INDICATOR                   TARGET BY 6/93               TARGEr BY 6194
Phyeal Work (oont'd)          n) Procurement for          Sta  of Compldion           Ready for WB Clearance by
Contractors                                          June, 1993
iii) Actual Constuction     Legth (kim) or % agc of work   Contuction shtuts July, 1993    At least 90% (LCB)
done                                                     completed by June, 1994
t) Regaveding
Ph. 3 - 870bn
i) Preparation of          Stage of Final Reports       For clearing by WB by June,
Engineing Desin&                                      1993
Bidding Documents
ii) Procurement for        Stage of Completion                                       Completkd and cekared by
Contractor                                                                        WB January, 1994
ii) Actual Constnuction     Lcngth (kin) or % age of work                             At last 30% competed
done
g) Regravelling
Ph.4 - 1070nkm
i) Preparation of          Stage of Final Reports      Ready for clearmg by WB by
Engineering Design &                                 June, 1993
Bidding Documents
ii) Pocurement for         Documents ready                                           Bids ready and being
Contrators                                                                        evaluated, 50% compktd
by June, 1994
iii) Actual Construction    LAngth (lkn) or % age of work
done
h) Spot hmprovement          LeAgth (kin) covered by      300 kn (92/93) designed. 75%   400 km (94195) designed.
designs and extent of       of 92/93 program compleed    60% of total progrm
Construction                                             completed
2.1 Studies                 a) OrgaWnaon and             Reporting stage reached      Final study report submitted  Implementation of
Management (O & M)                                     by Decenber, 1992            recommendation
b) Maintenance Performance   Reporting stage rtached      Final study report subnitted  Pilot knplementation
budgeting system (MPBS)                                by May, 1993                 complded by April, 1994         o 
o m
xh
.Io
0I



COMPONENT                    ACTIVITY                     PERFORMANCE                  MONITORABLE                   MONlTORABLE
l________________                                          INDICATOR                    TARGET BY 6193               TARGET BY 6194
Stdi_ (_oo'd)                c) Local Contracbing         Reporting stage reached      Draft Final submited May      Iplementation of
Industy (LCI)                                           '93. Fmal report in progress    recommendation being
(50%)                        finalzed
d) Socio-economic Impact     Reporting stage reached      First Draft Final Report on   Draft Final Report on short-
Studies                                                 Immediate Impact submitted   term impact for RegraveDing
for Regmavefling and Spot    and Spot Impsovement and
Improvement                  Draft Fial Report on
Immediate Impact of 560 km
LCB
2.2 Implenentation of Study    a) ODM                     Stage reached                Open ended. To be based on    To be based on study report
Recommendations                                                                      study report
b) MPBS                        i) No. of pilot road
disticts
ii) Coverage of rcievant DFR
Professional & Technical   (i), (ii) & (iii) started  (i), (ii) & (iii) 100%
staff                                                 completed
iii) Stage of computerization                            __                  _
c) LCI                       Stage reached                Not started                  Implementation 100%
______ _____ ____    .                              com pleted
d) SEIS                      Extent recommendation used   Open ended                    Open ended
to refine socio-economic &
selection criteria
3.1 Institutional Support    a) Contract Managemnent      Stage of recruitment         On board by April 1992        On board
Specialist (CMS)_
b) Finance/Accounting        Stage of recruitment         On board by April 1992        On board
Specialists (FAS)
c) Mechanical Specialist (MS)   Stage of recruitment      N/A - already on board        N/A - already on board
d) Planning Spocialist (PS)  Stage of recruitment         On board by November 1992
e) Computer Specialist (CS)  Stage of recruitment         N/A - already on board       __ _
f) Road Maintenance Engineer   Stage of recruitment       On board by July 1992 under                                      X
l  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        (RME)                                                                                                                  o I _



COMPONENT                    ACIIVISY                       PERFORMANCE                   MONITORABLE                   MONITORABLE
l________________                                            INDICATOR                     TARGET BY 6193                TARGET BY 6194
3.2 Staffing                 a) Proftesional staff          Nwnber in place               Open ended to be based on     Open ended to be based on
ODM                           ODM
b) Technical Staff            Number in place               Open ended to be based on     Open ended to be based on
ODM                           ODM
c) Managenent Staff           Deputies in place             3 Deputies including Deputy
Diector (Planning) in place
3.3 Training                 a) Professional                No. Trained Overseas          Open ended                    Open ended
No. Trained In-Country
No. Trained In-House
b) Technical                         - do -                        - do -                        - do -
i_________________  ic) Management                                  - do -                        - do -                        - do -
4. Budgetting &              Consolidation of Annual        Level of preparation          92193 ready                   93/94 ready
Expenditurs                Budgets & Expenditures for all
Funding Sources               _
5. Disbursaemnt              Effecting Payments (IDA only)  Level of IDA disbursement     25% as per SAR                52% as per SAR
DZ 0
oq a
o  l



PROGRAM OF KEY EVENT
RMPlIATM!ON WORKBS
PH. 1- 560KM                   PH. 11 - 1,140KM                 PH. m - 800KM
1. Pqwation of En&axing Deigs and Biding             January, IM                    October, 19                      Juno, 1993
Doenmn com;     wih World Bank Clea_nce                                      _
2. P    Ranent for Coator compld with                LCB June, 1992                  LCB August, 1993                LCB May, 1994
WBIGOG/ clearance                                 ICB Daember, 1992              ICB Septmber, 1993               ICB July, 1994
3. Poemeci_t for Supevision Consullants complet      April, 1992                     December, 1992                  Fuary, 1994
with World Bank clearance
4. Actual Conslulc    arts and ens                   LCB  Oct., 1992-Oct., 1993      LCB Dec., 1992-May, 1994        LCB July, 1994-July, 1995
ICB Jan., 1993-Jul., 1994     lICB Oct., 1993-Mar, 1995         ICB Aug., 1994-Dec., 1995
co
x
0 1
0 I.
B0'
oo 



Reoublic of Ghbu
Natio    Feeda Roads 1 RHbiation nd Maintena    Proieet (IFRRM
rme basd Insiutionm Stqena inn SuSoit jna_
1992                      1993                       1994                                1995                      1996
______ Q2   Q3 |Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3    Q4    Ql    Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql    Q2    Q3    Q4
1. I_kutaISuot - CoQsttAT.A.
1. M _anmen lin -P
a. Cosac Manageno_ t Specaist
(i) Poessing of pocuranen: DFR             done
(it) Review & clearance:    WB              done
(rii) Approval of conact:    GOO             xxxxx
(lv) Pcriod of assigninmen
b. IL0 Labor-based Tmining Speiis
(i)  ip ing of p    mocet DFR                     xxirn
(ii) Review & cleaanc:      WB                    xxxix mx
(iii) Approval of conact:    000                              xxx
(IV) Period of
c. 2 Acco_un     MU
(i) Pcessing of procmae  DFR 
(ii) R cvw & clearance:    WB                     xxx
(dii) Approval of contrct:   GO                     xxx
(w) Period of assigment:
d. Projea Support by MRH
(i) Proessig of procaent: DFR                                 xxxxxxxxxxx
(-d) Review & cleaance:    WB                                              xxx
(iii) Approval of coutrac:    300                                             xxx
(iv) Paeiod of asig_ment_
2. TechnI   LAe Positions
a. Mechanial Specialsu (2)
(i) ProceiSg of procremt: DFR              xxxix
(i) Review &  learance:    WB                     xxx
(di) Approval of contct:      00                      xxx
(C) Period of assignment:
Q2   Q3   Q4   QI  Q2 IQ3  IQ4    QI    Q2   IQ3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4
>
o  1



1992                      1993                     1994                               1995                     1996
_________________________   Qi   QI3                  Q4  Qi   Q2   Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4    IQI    Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4
b. PRa        _Specit
(i) Nming of procurnft DPR 
(ii) Rwie & cleerme:       WI                    xxx
(iii) Appoval of contUac    000                     xxx
(lv) Period of asigmma
c. Road MabnteaaSpeclit
O) P _toceief p_m      :ut DFR            xxxx
(ii) Revie & dc ance:      WB                    xxx
(ri) Approval of conrac:    000                     xxx
(iv) erd  ofasgnn
d. Compute Spechialit
(I) hPceng of procurement DFR                          xxxix
(i) Review h dckranc:      WB                                xxix
(m4i) Appv  of contra:      000                                   xxxx
(iv) Period of signment
3. U.N. Vduntes
a. Fded Ci EnAieer
(I) Procesing of prourment: DFR           xxxxx(2)
*                                   m~~~~~~~~~~~xxxx()
*                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xxxxx(1)
(     .) Revie &  lerne    WI                    XXX(2)
.                                                     xxx(2)                                                                                                        0
ZR&c:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XXI IBa 
(i) Apprva of contrct:      00                          xxx(2)
*                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xxxv2)
*                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XXX(I)
(lv) Paiod of aigment
*                                                           ..f....wnwyT.._l.yrvv..ty.n
4. Trang
a. Trmining Overse
(i) Sdectlon of lnsutions: DFR               Xxxxx(Group 1)
.         .                                                              xxxxxx(Group 2)
.         .                                                                                                   xxxxx(Group 3)
(ii) Period of taining:
Q2   Q3   Q4   QlI  Q2   Q3    Q4    QlI  Q2    Q3    Q4    QlI  Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql    Q2    Q3  IQ4
, CD
0D 1
Ns



1992                     1993                     1994                             1995                     1996
________________________   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql  Q2   Q3    Q4    QlIQ2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4  I    IQ2    Q3    Q4
b. Kmwiib dEsb.umd Taing
leod of srIinbF                                                   cp)
.                                                                                  (ckoup)
.*                                                                                                       :koe3 )
.  .                                                                          s      _        4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAXPW) 
c. I4am  TeaaingT.L
(i) Pe@emg of pocazeaca DFR                    uxx uc 
(-) Review & d_wmnc       WB                         xxx              xxx                 xxx
(i Apovd of comza          000                          XO              xxx                 xxx
f(w) Perid of _4gfae:                                      irixx Uxxx
*                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xxuxxxxxxxxm
. x   _   ___ .
S. OFR DsmftuimCm
a. Dhccua1iution Staff h Suppon
Os) Erdotion of reqvuimna               xxxuxxxxXXXuXuXXXzXXX                                    XXzrnXXXXX
0      i2) DeIeatraiihn)                                                                                                                                           l
.                                                                            =       2xxxxxxxxxxxx(Smage2)
.                                                                                                     xxxxzxxxxxxxx(St&Xe3)
n I__kiaa Sunol &Siudes 
1. rpoaficla MA_m           (aamat CO ) SWdy
Os Pm agof p _umc  DFR                   urn
(. 6 iiRv#*  &4=cw&         WBB 
(m-) Appravat ofacon:z     MGOO                   xxxX
Ctw) Swid p=Wb:           C ,sARgI              x   =XXK
(V) k_uuon f R           :omnaim
2. Rood Ilamenanc Peformace Budgeing
Sygm t) Swdy
) PN gins of plucumef:                   xx
(H-) Revie&    .earanoe:                 xxx
(ii) Appoa of conrat                      xxxXX
(IT) StudY pew: 
(v) h     nten of RPc_mmendatim:
Q2IQ3   Q4  QI  Q2  Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3
O>
CD 0
-Q 3
M JD
0 1



I992                    1993                     1994                            1995                    1996
_Ql I  QQ  IQ3   Q4   Ql   Q2  Q3 I Q4 I Ql I Q2  I Q3    Q4    QlI  QQ    Q3    Q4    QI  Q2QI                      Q4
3. CanstraouiIm1uoWy
fi) P_mmmigof pocumcnmR DFR 
(i) Rcwew &  _bm:s       WB                 xxmt
(iii) Appf. -a of cmiram  000                xxx
(s) Study pelod:         Cuka
(v) ImPluatation of R
4. Soci:bo.oaoi Impac Study
(I) Poceuia of pwcemax
fal) Reviw & dwauc              |Xxx
(W) Stuy paiod:                                   xxxmxxxxx                         xxmxxxxxxx                             xxxxxxxxxxxxx            xxxxxxxxm
QI  Q2    Q3   Q4   QI Q2   Q3   Q4   QlI Q2    Q3    Q4    QlI  Q2    Q3    Q4    QlI  Q2    Q3QI
e >
t'J
(D tD
oq,
0tg
l1 I-



- 143 -                                               Annex 4-18
Detailed Procurement Table
(UtS Million Equfvalent) (I.D.A. shown in parentheses)
Ice       LCU     OTHER    SHOPP.       NA      TOTAL
PROJECT ELEMENT
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1 C.-I. Road Rehabilitation   31.20        8.00       *        -         -        39.20
(27.14)    (4.42)                                 (31.56)
1.2 L.-I. Road Rehabittation                                             12.16       12.16
0.00
1.3 Regrovelliig                  13.09      5.80       -                 7.12       26.01
C11.39)    (2.55)                                 C13.93)
1.4 Spot Improvement/Culverts                                    -        6.13        6.13
0.00
1.5 BuildIng Works                                 -                      0.33        0.33
0.00
....     ....... .. ..... . ...... ......  ....... ....W.... ........
Subtotal Civil Works         44.29      13.80     0.00      0.00    25.74       83.83
(38.53)    (6.97)    0.00      0.00      0.00     (45.50)
2. GO0S
2.1 MaintenAnce Equipnent,         3.29                                   4.19        7.48
Spares & Tools                (3.11)                                            (3.11)
2.2 Vehicles                       0.92                 .                             0.92
(0.86)                                            (0.86)
2.3 Mok*Le Radios                             '                 0.35                  0.35
(0.33)               (0.33)
2.4 Office Equipmant L Aids                                     0.16                  0,16
(0.15)               (0.15)
Subtotal Goods                 4.21      0.00     0.00      0.51      4.19       8.91
(3.97)     0.00     0.00    (0.47)    0.00        (4.45)
3. T.A. & STLIDES
3.1 Management Lirn  Positions      -0.9                                              0.98
(0.97)                         (0.97)
3.2 Technical Line Positions        -         *         -                 1.79        1.79
0.00
3.3 U.N.V  Support                  -          -       0.20                           0.20
(0.19)                         (0.19)
3.4 Studies                         -          .       0.70               0.51        1.21
(0.10)                         (0.10)
3.5 Training T.A.                   .          -       0.36       -       0.40        0.76
(0.35)                         (0.35)
.... ..... ... ...........   ......... _........   ...... ........   .  .....
Subtotal T.A. & Studfos        0.00      0.00     2.24      0.00      2.70       4.94
0.00      0.00    (1.60)    0.00       0.00       (1.60)
4. ENO., TRAINING, OTHER SUPPORT
4.1 Eng. Desfgn & Supervision                  -       2.93                -          2.93
(1.87)                         M1.67)
4.2 Rural Nobility/Environment    .            .        *                 2.38        2.38
0.00
4.3 DFR & Contractor Training       -                   .                 1.39        1.39
0.00
4.4 DOcentralitation Support                   -       1.64       -        -          1.64
(1.58)                         (1.58)
Subtotal Eng., Training,       0.00                4.57     0.00      3.77        8.34
Other Support                  0.00      0.00    (3.45)    0.00       0.00       (3.45)
m            _        _        _          _          -         _        _ -                  _
ORMQ TOTAL                              48.50      13.80     6.81      0.51    36.40      106.02
(I.O.A.)    (42.50)    (6.97)   (5.05)   (0.47)    0.00        (55.00)
PERCENT OF TOTAL                        45.75X    13.021    6.421    0.481   34.331          1001
CI.D.A.)     77.28X    12.67X    9.19X    0.86X   O.00            100X
ininin                                -                    -         -u                  m



- 144 -
Annex 4-19
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OE GN
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule a/
Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter       Appraisal     Cumulative    Standard Disbursement Profiles
Ending        Estimat           %            Ghana        Africa Region
All Sectors    Transportation
(US$ Million)
FY92
June           0.50           1%                    0%            0%
FY93
September      3.40           6%                    3%           2%
December       6.30          11%                    6%            3%
March          9.20          17%                    8%            7%
June          12.00          22%                   10%           10%
EY2A
September     15.70          28%                   14%           14%
December      19.40          35%                   18%           18%
March         23.10          42%                   22%           24%
June          26.90          49%                   26%           30%
2Y9S
September    30.50           55%                   32%           38%
December      34.10          62%                   38%           46%
March         37.70          68%                   44%           52%
June          41.20          75%                   50%           58%
FY96
September    43.80           80%                   54%           62%
December      46.40          84%                   58%           66%
March         49.00          89%                   66%           72%
June          51.60          94%                   74%           78%
PY97
September    52.50           95%                   78%           80%
December      53.40          97%                   82%           82%
March         54.30          99%                   86%           86%
June          55.00          100%                  90%           90%



- 145 -
Annex 4-19
Page. 2 of 2
EXf
September                                         92%            92%
December                                          95%            95%
March                                             98%            98%
June                                              100%          100%
a/ Credit assumed to become effective on April 1, 1992
AF41N
November 1991
(Dubumm.NFR)



- 146 -
Annex 4-20
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
A.           Direct Enviromnental Impacts of Feeder Road Rehabilitation
1.           Feeder road rehabilitation by labor-based methods results in some, although
minimal, direct environmental impact on the immediate area if the roads remain in good
condition. The construction methods applied provide for adequate side drainage and the
dispersion of water from side drains by means of culverts placed in topographically
appropriate locations. Culvert siting is done by the regional or road area DFR engineers and
is determined using 1:250,000 scale topographic maps when available. Larger-scale maps
would be better, but currently are unavailable in Ghana. Similarly, aerial photos do not exist
to supplement the culvert sitings. Du'e to the expense and the difficulty with placing
reinforced pipe culverts with sufficient fill under the labor-based program, DFR has
developed a new type of box culvert in 1-meter or 2-meter sizes. The bottom and the sides of
the box culvert are constructed of concrete and the top of locally supplied hardwoods. In the
future, DFR is planning on pi viding reinforced concrete slabs to the box culverts instead of
using the hardwood planks.
2.           The corract camber placement, if maintained, should improve local runoff
characteristics. Presently, most of the unimproved roads are in such poor condition that sheet
and gully erosion results along the center line of the roads. In addition, the side drains of the
unimproved roads have disappeared, leading to increased destruction of the soil and road
embanhnents. The improved roads provide for adequate dispersal of water into the side
drains and the disposal of the water down the side drains into small streams and natural
drainage systems through runouts. Erosion in the side drains is slowed by periodic scour
checks. The labor-based construction methods appear to consistently produce better camber
than the equipment-based construction methods. However, if the assumed spot improvement
and maintenance of the labor-based roads is not provided by DFR through its MOREMAT
units and the communities, the destruction of the camber and the side drains could exacerbate
increased soil erosion and sedimentation of surface water. Continued road maintenance is
crucial to mitigating the environmental impacts of the feeder road rehabilitation.
3.           Equipment-based construction of feeder roads has a more adverse effect on the
environment. The use of large graders and bulldozers scour the side banks, especially in
areas where streams had been temporarily diverted for the placement of pipe culverts. Along
the Addah Junction-Mepe feeder road in Volta Region, for example, rather large areas on 15
to 20% slopes had been cleared in the placement of side banks and culverts. In one case, the
erosion of a sideslope near a small stream indicated increased erosion and sedimentation of the
waterway, which bas environmental and health impacts on the community. Equipment-based
construction is also more energy consumptive than the labor-based technology and, given the
diffnculty in acquiring spare parts, more likely to result in the abandonment of equipment in
rural areas.



- 147 -
Annex 4-20
Page 2 of 6
4.            A negative environmental consequence of both labor- and equipment-based
technologies is the excavation of borrow pits in the vicinity of the roads. In the case of the
equipment-based construction method, the excavation leaves a much larger area that tends to
fill with water. With the labor-based method, the excavations are smaller, locally placed, and
relatively shallow. In both cases, the contractor is required by contract to remove and store
the topsoil and replace it and revegetate the area after completion of the work. Contractors
interviewed have not done this and it appears that they do not consider this an obligation of
the contract. The larger pits, not being revegetated, collect large amounts of rainwater runoff
which potentially contributes to an increase in diseases such as malaria and bilharzia. The
smaller pits, no longer being used for other beneficial land uses, contribute to increased soil
erosion. At two of the sites visited (Addah Junction-Mepe and Datano-Sunienso model roads
in Sefwi-Wiaso), signs of significant soil erosion were evident. In some cases, the excavated
pits are to be left ope-i for future maintenance activities.
B.            Indirect Environmental Impacts of Feeder Road Rehabilitation
5.            Since a large number of unimproved feeder roads in Ghana are almost
impassable, the rehabilitation can be considered to open up rural areas similar to new road
construction. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate the potential indirect impacts of the
rehabilitated feeder roads on regional environments. This is especially true when rehabilitated
roads pass through or are contiguous with environmentally sensitive areas, such as forest
reserves, wetlands, or wildlife sanctuaries (see map). Increased access to markets and
opportunities for production of high-value cash crops for rural households could, conceivably,
lead to increased pressure on natural resources. The rehabilitation of feeder roads represents
only one of the variables compared to another. However, in the future, there are two cases
where the rehabilitation of feeder roads could have negative indirect environmental
consequences and which need to be investigated.
6.            The rehabilitation of feeder roads in cocoa-producing areas improves the
efficiency of cocoa evacuation and, therefore, could induce increased production or a shift in
land use. This could result in increased pressure on the forest reserves, since land for
expansion of production is generally scarce in these areas. However, it is unclear which
variables affect the intensification or the expansion of cocoa production the most. Prices have
been favorable to producers and rain has been above average for the last several years.
Improved roads definitely increase the potential for better marketing, but since producers can
store cocoa up to one year on farm, the road access is not as crucial as with perishable food
items. Also, the Cocoa Marketing Board (COCOBOD) has an extensive network of cocoa
depots (within not more than a five-mile radius from all producers and, in fact, probably close
to one mile from most producers) that facilitates the transport of cocoa to the depots by
farmers. Improved roads decrease transport costs and increase ease of remuneration, but it is
difficult to state categorically that improved roads are the incentive for increased production.
They are probably a factor, but may not be the overwhelming one. The improved roads
probably do not affect the collection of cocoa at the depots by COCOBOD, since most of
their trucks are 40 tons and the maximum accessible load of the feeder roads is 5 tons.
7.            Improved feeder roads may also affect the amount of national forest logged.
It is not expected that this will result in increased production by the timber concessionaires,
since their quotas are strictly imposed and regulated. However, the independent loggers are



- 148 -
Annex 4-20
Page 3 of 6
harder to monitor and it is possible that the improvement of the feeder roads through forest
reserves could increase the pressure on the resources from this group.
8.            The Forest Department is starting to inventory and monitor the cutting of all
primary species. Class I species (see Attachment 1) are all individually identified and
concessionaires cannot cut these trees until they reach a mini num girth. Due to the
encroachment of agriculture, certain species, such as odum (Milicia excelsa and Milicia regia)
are facing extreme pressure. The export of these hardwoods is now limited, but the
rehaoilitation of feeder roads could have an impact on the amount of trees felled by un-
licensed cutters.
9.           In the charcoal-producing, areas of the country, the rehabilitation of a feeder
road could increase the cutting of trees. The rehabilitated road would make it easier to get
the charcoal out of the area, increasing the economic potential of the product. Data from
Nkoranza District indicate the importance of good roads to the price of charcoal. The price
of charcoal in the rural areas of Nkoranza is C400 per bag. If the producer is able to
transport it to Nkoranza, the price rises to C800 per bag. In Sunyani, the cost is C1,200 and
in Accra, charcoal sells for C2,000 per bag. An economic analysis of the supply and demand
and the amount of the sale price that is attributed to transport cost has not been done, but it is
clear that the rehabilitation of feeder roads in the district will impact on the amount of
charcoal produced and, the price offered in Nkoranza and possibly further away. The
incentive to produce more charcoal will have definite adverse environmental impacts if not
controlled.
10.           A significant indirect impact of feeder road rehabilitation could be the
increased soil erosion if the roads are not routinely maintained by the communities.
Sustainability depends on the contribution of labor by the communities served by the roads.
Therefore, it is crucial that a planning process be developed that provides methodologies and
techniques for facilitating community participation in feeder road miaintenance to minimize
future environmental impacts.
C.            Overall Recommendations for Mitigating Environmental Impacts
11.           Both the potential direct and indirect impacts of rehabilitated feeder roads
were considered in developing the recommendations that follow.
Recommended Changes in Feeder Road Maintenance Practices
*     Encourage labor-based road rehabilitation technologies as much as possible.
*     Require, before the final payment is made to contractors, that stockpiled
topsoil is replaced and gravel pits revegetated. This provision should also be
specified in the bill of quantities of future tender documents so that contractors
recognize the requirement during the preparation of tenders.
*      Minimize the number of excavated pits and practice soil stabilization in areas
where steep slopes exist to minimize erosion.



- 149 -
Annex 4-20
Page 4 of 6
*     Replace the hardwood timber culvert tops with reinforced concrete slabs to
preserve the primary species or work closely with the forestry department to
determine the quotas for certain species and the amount of wood that DFR can
cut.
*     Deiciop an environmental section of the ILO Training Handbook that would
iemonstrate to contractors the procedures for minimizing soil erosion, gravel
pit use and restoration, and minimizing destruction of contiguous areas.
*     Develop procedures for the compensation of landholders who lose land to
gravel pits. This is an issue in certain areas and one which could affect future
community participation.
*     Develop environmentally sound procedures for both labor- and equipment-
based technologies for crossing wetlands cr streams.
*     Provide decent topographical maps and adequate training to engineers for the
design of drainage control systems.
Planning for Mitigating Indirect Impacts
12.          First, problems with consistent labor supply for routine maintenance have
developed due to a lack of understanding on the incentive systems of the communities. A
better understanding of available labor and incentive structures of rural communities is
necessary to facilitate the community participation in feeder road maintenance. To enhance
this understanding, an applied research effort would be necessary. Several communities in
diverse ecological and socio-economic situations would need to be selected for case studies
that identify the following key variables affecting community participation in feeder road
j        ~~~maintenance:
*     the seasonal household and community labor profiles (by gender) and
constraints;
*     the spatial location of households in relation to the rehabilitated feeder roads
and their participation in routine maintenance;
*     the role and influence of traditional and other leaders in mobilizing community
work efforts;
*     the role of direct incentives in community participation in feeder road routine
maintenance;
*     the role and influence of road committees in the community;
*     the major beneficiaries of the road in the community and their contribution to
routine maintenance;



- 150 -
Annex 4-20
Page 5 of 6
9s    the influence of DFR and other training programs on community-based routine
maintenance;
o     the relative importance of the rehabilitated feeder road to the community; and
*     the potential role of the community in evaluating direct environmental impacts
of feeder road rehabilitation.
13.          Second, DFR should develop mobile training seminars for communities on the
necessity of routine maintenance for the sustainability of feeder roads. DFR would use videos
and other media to explain the damaging effects of soil erosion on the conditions of the roads.
These seminars could also be used in collaboration with other extension services, such as
functional literacy campaigns, mobile planning units, the Ghana Information Services, and the
Ghana Education Service, to expand environmental awareness. For example, discussions on
the control of soil erosion in the side drains could be expanded to discuss village and
agricultural soil erosion. DFR has produced one video presentation of labor-based
rehabilitation for education purposes and this recommendation would fit in well with DFR's
training focus.
14.          Third, DFR should liaise and coordinate with the Enviromnental Protection
Council (EPC) on the development of criteria and a planning process to identify feeder roads
that may have direct and/or indirect environmental impacts. This would include, but not be
limited to, those feeder roads that cause direct impacts in crossing or passing wetlands, forest
areas and reserves, wildlife sanctuaries, and other environmentally sensitive areas. In
addition, DFR and EPC should develop procedures for conducting environmental assessments
(EA) on feeder roads that are considered to potentially impact on the environment.
15.          Fourth, after the road area prioritization of roads to be rehabilitated, DFR will
coordinate the final selection with MA, the Department of Forestry, and the EPC to determine
which of the roads could possibly have environmental problems. It is necessary for the
Forestry Department and DFR to work together to insure proper identification of potential
problem areas and methods for enforcing cutting regulations. In the case of feeder roads with
potential adverse environmental impacts, it must be determined which organization will be
responsible for conducting the EA.
16.          Fifth, DFR should consider the development of a spatial data base, such as a
Geographic Information System (GIS), to assist in recording maintenance activities, designing
culverts and drainage systems, and storing information on land use in road influence areas.
The EPC has both ERDAS and ARC/INFO GIS setups and would be available to assist DFR
in establishing a relevant system. The data bases developed could also be used to assist the
Department of Forestry and the Ministry of Agriculture in identifying changing land-use
patterns and impacts on the communities due to these changes.
17.          Sixth, DFR will continue to use consultants to conduct engineering studies and
the preparation of documents suitable for international and local competitive bidding in
accordance with World Bank requirements. The consultants should consider all of the above
recommendations in completing their studies. This is especially true when the consultants



- 151 -
Annex 4-20
Page 6 of 6
assess the condition and structural adequacy of existing drainage structures and facilities with
a view toward recommending improvements to meet hydrological and hydraulic needs.
18.          Seventh, training for DFR staff and local contractors should include
workshops, seminars, and field trips to institutionalize environmental awareness into DFR
programs. During future design phases of the NFRRMP, World Bank staff should identify
methods, approaches, and programs to train DFR staff on the integration of environmental
concerns into DFR planning, design, and training activities. Additionally, Bank staff should
investigate ways to assist DFR in the establishment of a library on environmental irmpacts of
physical infrastructure projects. Additionally, several DFR staff should be trained in EA
methodology.
AP41N
Novembr 1991
(EnwiAsew.NFR)



- 152 -
Annex 5-1
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A.           Evaluation Methodology
1.           The methodology used in evaluating benefits and costs for feeder road
selection was based on Beenhakker's and Lago's "Simplified Operational Procedures for
Screening and Appraisal" (see World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 610, 1983). This
methodology outlines various options for analyzing the returns from rural road investments.
2.           The economic evaluation was based on estimates of internal rates of return for
each of the proposed feeder road investments. Cost estimates for rehabilitation and
maintenance of phase-I feeder roads (560 km) were obtained from engineering studies carried
out by three local consulting firms in four high to medium agricultural potential zones. These
zones are Accra-Ada, Ejura-Kintampo, Salaga-Bimbila, and Wa-Tumu-Fian (see map).
3.           Phase-2 feeder roads (1,140 km) are located in Mampong, Sunyani,
Techiman, Bekwai, Cape Coast, Hohoe, Yendi, Tamale, and Tumu road areas.
Rehabilitation cost were estimated by socio-economic consultants who did the feeder road
selection, following procedures for cost estimation and unit cost data established by DFR.
The same procedure will be applied for the economic analysis of the remaining phase-3 (800
kIm) feeder roads.
4.           Engineering studies for phase-2 roads still need to be done. Rehabilitation
cost estimates reflect each road's present condition and the anticipated maintenance
requirements after rehabilitation. Average costs of routine and periodic maintenance of
US$350 and US$7,150 per km and year, respectively, were used. These cost estimates are
based on analysis of recent projects executed by DFR.
5.           On all feeder roads pre-selected for the project, the main benefits from
rehabilitation are estimated with the producer surplus approach. The formulation used to
assess economic benefits is the one prescribed by Beenhakker and defined as follows:
(1)   B = Pm(Q2 - QI) - (C2 - CI) - (K2Q2 - KIQI)
or
(2)   B = B1 + B2
with:



- 153 -
Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 5
B1 (Benefits accruing to farmers) and B2 (Benefits accruing to transporters) calculated
according to:
(3)   B1 = P2Q2 - PIQI - (C2 - Cl)
(4)   B2  F2Q2 - F1QI - (K2Q2 - K1Q1)
where:   P., =      crop's local market price ($/ton);
P1,P2 -     farmgate price of product in the without and with project situation
($/ton);
Q,,Q2 =        exports of products from the road's zone of influence in the without
and with project situation, respectively (tons);
CIAC2 =        economic cost of producing the entire agricultural product under
consideration in the with and without project situation, respectively
($;
,  ,FJ2=       fare for transporting one ton of exportable surplus over the rural road
in the without and with project situation, respectively ($/ton); and
K1,K2 =        economic cost of transporting one ton of exportable surplus over the
rural road in the without and with project situation, respectively.
6.           The evaluation of the proposed feeder road investments was done with the
second formulation (equation 2) using farmgate prices. Data for the rate of return calculation
of each proposed feeder road investment was based on household surveys, road area
secondary information, and a cross-sectional study conducted in four zones for phase-i and
nine road areas for phase-2 feeder roads among households in accessible and inaccessible
feeder road corridors.
7.           From these data, the stimulus attributable to improved access was inferred.
This stimulus was obtained by considering data on average per household outputs obtained
from some 2,700 households along both accessible and inaccessible corridors and controlling
for different farm and family sizes. The stimulus attributable to improved access varies
considerably according to crop and road area.
B.           Data Input and Assumptions
S.           Detailed household data from a total of 2,700 households in about 54 feeder
road corridors and other data from each of the selected corridors were collected for phases-I
and -2. The household data were analyzed controlling for variations in areas cultivated and
household size to estimate the differences in production of major crops between accessible and
inaccessible corridors. Additional data from an estimated 1,200 households along 24 feeder
road corridors will be collected for roads still to be pre-selected for phase-3. The following
data for the zone of influence of each road corridor (defined to include a band of 3 kilometers
on each side of the road) were collected for phases-I and -2:



- 154 -
Annex 5-1
Page 3 of 5
(a)    population data using census and other data from district assemblies (at the
village level);
(b)    regional and road area level production data for each of the main crops,
average areas cultivated and costs of production from the road area
agricultural offices and the Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department of the MA;
(c)    household level data on areas cultivated on major crops, production, storage,
losses, sales, consumption, mode of transport, average trip distances, and
information on modal split (e.g. intermediate means of transport, vehicles and
headloading).
9.            For the economic appraisal, the "without" project situation assumes that DFR
will not be able to rehabilitate and maintain the selected project roads due to an assumed lack
of financial resources. The "with" project situation assumes full rehabilitation and
maintenance of these feeder roads over a 15 year analysis period, using the resources
provided by IDA, cofinanciers and GOG. For the anticipated benefits to be realized during
the life of the feeder roads, adequate resources are assumed to be allocated for both routine
and periodic maintenance activities.
10.          Economic returns are calculated using border prices of both cost and benefit
streams. Border prices consist of estimated import prices of all foreign inputs estimated at
c.i.f. prices, excluding taxes but including internal transport costs. Local components are
converted to border prices using a conversion factor of 0.93. An exchange rate of Cedis 375
= $1 is used and kept constant over the period of analysis. All prices relate to mid-1991.
Economic costs exclude price contingencies but include physical contingencies of 10 percent.
11.          The two principal benefits are (i) increased value added arising from farmer's
ability to produce and market more, and (ii) reductions in transport costs. The calculation of
benefits emphasizes the impact of improved accessibility and does not consider possible
changes in the rate of population growth as a result of better access.
12.          Quantity and value added for the major exportable crops in each corridor was
calculated based on household data collected on quantity produced, consumed, sold and lost in
inaccessible (QJ) and accessible (Q) corridors. The results from a cross-sectional study
indicate that on average production is 20 percent higher in households in accessible corridors
than in inaccessible corridors. The difference between means for the major crops in each
corridor was statistically significant and corroborated findings in similar studies elsewhere.
13.          Average output figures for the road corridors were converted to a value basis
using average sales, consumption and loss data, as well as farmgate prices in accessible and
inaccessible corridors (Pl and P2, respectively).



- 155 -
Annex S-1
Page 4 of S
14.          The increases in economic cost of producing the main crops in the accessible
and inaccessible corridors (Cl and C2, ,peib) were calculated as a function of the gross value
of production for each crop less direct expenses (i.e. variable cost).
15.          Average fares for transporting one ton of exportable surplus over the feeder
road were obtained for inaccessible corridors (F,) and accessible corridors (F2) in each area
from the survey.
16.          The economic costs of transportation according to the mode used were
estimated separately for the inaccessible corridors (K,) and accessible corridors (K2). In the
case of vehicles, vehicle operating costs for different road conditions were compiled from data
gathered by GHA.
17.          The anticipated shifts in modes for produce evaluation were estimated by
simply comparing the pattern of modes used in hauling marketable surplus in the inaccessible
and accessible areas. Based on empirical evidence it was assumed that a proportion of the
exportable produce or surplus will still be headloaded from farm to market even after road
rehabilitation. When a road improvement results in better access (e.g. as it passes from
"poor" to "good" access), there is a reduction of 15 percent in ton-km headloaded, while only
10 percent reduction when the road passes from "fair" to ngood".
C.           Results
18.          The above methodology was followed in assessing the economic viability of
feeder roads selected for phases-i and-2 of the NFRRMP. Of 800 km evaluated for phase-i,
560 km of feeder roads resulted in ERR above 10 percent. For phase-2, 1,140 km out of
1,920 km of feeder roads evaluated have ERRs in excess of 10 percent. For the NFRRMP
phase-3 feeder road rehabilitation works, additional cross-sectional data will be collected from
an estimated 1,200 households along 24 road corridors in 8 additional road areas.
19.          Annex 5-1, Table 6 shows a sample of the format used in calculating each
road's ERR. The economic rates of return calculated for each of the individual road links
considered under phases-i and -2 are included in Annex 5-2, Tables 1 and 2, respectively.
Out of the 66 individual feeder road links analyzed for phase-i, 42 (or about 65 percent) with
a total length of 560 km were considered to be economically viable with economic rates of
return in excess of the 10 percent. For phase-2, 121 out of 206 individual feeder roads with a
total length of 1,140 km are economically viable. The rates of return on the selected roads
range from 10 percent to well above 100 percent.
20.          Annex 5-2, Tables 1 and 2 also show the various feeder road links with rates
of return below 10 percent. Most of these feeder roads are quite long and therefore have high
rehabilitation cost compared to the expected benefits in the form of increased value added and
benefits accruing to transporters.
21.          Annex 5-1, Table 1 summarizes all ERRs that were calculated including the
results of a sensitivity analysis of different project components and the project as a whole.
Annex 5-1, Tables 2 to 5 gives the results of ERR calculations for phase-i (560 km), phase-2



- 156 -
Annex 5-1
Page 5 of 5
(1,140 kn) and phase-3 (800 km) (estimated) feeder road rehabilitation works as well as the
periodic maintenance (regravelling) program (2,850 km). Cost-benefit analyses for the
remaining 800 km of phase-3 will be conducted soon by local consultants.
AP41N
November 1991
(EconEval.NFR)



-  157 -                                         Annex 5-1
Table 1
SUSUARY OF ERR AND SENSITIVITY
Alt Figures in Percentages
ERR with
ERR with       ERR with     Costs up 20%
Percent of Total   E R R          Costs up    Benefits down   and Benefits
Components          Project Costs   Base Case          20%             20%          down 20%
..........         .................... .......... ..................... ............ ....................w*.  ,b..  
1.  PHASE-1 (1992)                  14             47              37             35              27
Feeder Road
Rehabilitation
Program (S60 km
selected and designed)
2.  PHASE-2 (1993-1994)             22              47             37             34              26
Feeder Road
Rehabilitation
Program (1,140 km
selected and
to be designed)
3.  PHASE-3 (1995-1996)             15              42             34             32              25
Feeder Road
Rehabilitation
Program (800 km
to be selected and
to be designed)
4.   Feeder Road Periodi            25              83             56             51              33
Maintenance Program
(2,850 km to be selected
and to be designed)
5.  Components with Ben             24              --             --             --              --
not quantified
6.  Coposite ERR on                 36              47             37             35              26
Items  and 2
7.  Conposite ERR on                51              45             36             34              26
Items I to 3
8.  Coqnosfte ERR on                76              58             42             39               28
Items I to 4
9.  Composite ERR on               100              44             32             30               21
Items 1 to 5
Total Project



-  158 -                                         Annex  5-1
Tabl e2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN OF PHASE-1 (560 KM) FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATITION PROGRAM
(IN CEDIS)
......... .. .... ... ................... ................................. ........................................................................
PERIODIC AND
ROUTINE
REHABILITATION  MAINTENANCE       TOTAL         BENEFITS TO     BENEFITS TO      TOTAL
COSTS          COSTS          COSTS           FARMERS       TRANSPORTER    BENEFITS        NET FLOW
YEAR  1    1,888,844,173      61,692,852  1,950,537,025    329,262,862    64,619,220    393,882,082 (1,556.654,943)
YEAR  2      834,930,210      62,340,132    897,270,342    666,337,045    68,601,850    734,938,895   (162,331,447)
YEAR  3                       62,340,132      62,340,132  1,003,411,228    72,458,131  1,075,869,359  1,013,529,227
YEAR  4                       62,340,132      62,340,132  1,340,485,410    76,314,413  1,416,799,823  1,354,459,691
YEAR  5                       62,340,132      62,340,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,362,317,426
YEAR  6                      122,790,132    122,790,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,301,867,426
YEAR  7                    1,153,857,882  1,153,857,882  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558    270,799,676
YEAR  8                       75,82S,132      75,825,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,348,832,426
YEAR  9                       62,340,132      62,340,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,362,317,426
YEAR 10                       62,340,132      62,340,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,362,317,426
YEAR 11                      122,790,132    122,790,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,301,867,426
YEAR 12                       62,340,132      62,340,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424.657,558  1,362.317,426
YEAR 13                    1,153,857,882  1,153,857,882  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558    270,799,676
YEAR 14                       75,825,132      75,825,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,348,832,426
YEAR 15                       62,340,132      62,340,132  1,348,296,731    76,360,827  1,424,657,558  1,362,317,426
ERR (IN X) e             47



- 159 -
Annex 5-1
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN OF PHASE-2 (1,140 KM) FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(IN CEDIS)
......... "....   . ..._.................. ....... .......................... ........................ ....................................................... 
PERIODIC AND
ROUTINE
REHABILITATION  MAINTENANCE     TOTAL        BENEFITS TO    BENEFITS TO       TOTAL
COSTS         COSTS         COSTS          FARMERS       TRANSPORTERS    BENEFITS       NET FLOW
. ........................... .............................................................. ............ ................... ..... .........................
YEAR  1
YEAR  2  2,608,530,919    143,044,120 2,751,575,039   515,654,761       76,861,146    592,515,906  (2,159,059,133)
YEAR 3   2,608,530,919    143,044,120 2,751,575,039  1,031,309,521    118,026,111   1,149,335,632  (1,602,239,407)
YEAR 4               0    143,044,120    143,044,120  1,79,604,765    125,196,065   1,918,800,830   1,775,756,710
YEAR 5               0    143,044,120    143,044,120 2,555,900,008    132,711,553  2,688,611,561   2,54S,567,441
YEAR 6               0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,049,180,973    137,549,631   3,186,730,604  3,043,686,484
YEAR 7               0  1,176,049,380  1,176,049,380  3,052,020,987    137,563,698  3,189,584,685   2,013,535,305
YEAR 8               0  2,460,862,120  2,460,862,120 3,054,972,732    137,578,339  3,192,551,071       731,688,951
YEAR 9               0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,058,040,720    137,593,579  3,195,634,299  3,052,590,179
YEAR 10              0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,061,229,650    137,609,442  3,198,839,092   3,055,794,972
YEAR 11              0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,064,544,414    137,625,955  3,202,170,369  3,059,126,249
YEAR 12              0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,067,990,111    137,643,144   3,205,633,255   3,062,589,135
YEAR 13              0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,071,572,048    137,661,037  3,209,233,085   3,066,188,965
YEAR 14              0 3,493,867,380  3,493,867,380 3,075,295,755    137,679,665  3,212,975,420    (280,891,960)
YEAR 15              0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,079,166,991    137,699,059  3,216,866,050   3,073,821,930
YEAR 16              0    143,044,120    143,044,120 3,083,191,755    137,719,251   3,220,911,006  3,077,866,886
ERR (IN X) *             47



- 160 -
Annex 5-1
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECON01MC RATES OF RETURN OF PHASE-3 (800 KM) FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(IN CEDIS)
............. ........................... ........ ................ .. ...... ......... . ........... .. . ... ....... ...........     ...
PERIODIC AND
ROUTINE
REHABILITATION  MAINTENANCE     TOTAL        BENEFITS TO    BENEFITS TO       TOTAL
COSTS         COSTS         COSTS          FARMERS       TRANSPORTERS    BENEFITS       NET FLOW
YEAR  1
YEAR  2   1,404,000,000    31,500,000  1,435,500,000     99,187,200     47,232,000     295,200,000  (1,140,300,000)
YEAR  3   1,638,000,000    68,250,000  1,706,250,000   248,169,600      73,860,000     738,600,000    (967,650,000)
YEAR  4   1,638,000,000    105,000,000  1,743,000,000   270,438,336     56,341,320     804,876,000    (938,124,000)
YEAR  5                   105,000,000    105,000,000    635,241,600     94,530,000   1,890,600,000   1,785,600,000
YEAR  6                    105,00C,000    105,000,000    779,637,600    116,017,500   2,320,350,000   2,215,350,000
YEAR  7                   105,000,000    105,000,000    767,541,600    114,217,500   2,284,350,000   2,179,350,000
YEAR 8                    703,500,000    703,500,000   854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   1,840,500,000
YEAR 9                    803,250,000    803,250,000   854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   1,740,750,000
YEAR 10                   803,250,000    803,250,000   854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   1,740,750,000
YEAR 11                   105,000,000    105,000,000   854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   2,439,000,000
YEAR 12                   105,000,000    105,000,000    854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   2,439,000,000
YEAR 13                   105,000,000    105,000,000   854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   2,439,000,000
YEAR 14                   703,500,000    703,500,000    854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   1,840,500,000
YEAR 15                   803,250,000    803,250,000    854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   1,740,750,000
YEAR 16                   803,250,000    803,250,000    854,784,000    127,200,000   2,544,000,000   1,740,750,000
ERR (IN X) =             42



- 161 -
Annex 5-1
Table 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN OF PERIODIC MAINTENANCE (2,850 KM) FEEDER ROAD PROGRAM
(IN CEDIS)
............................... ...................................................................... ... .... ... ................ ....... .
PERIODIC       ROUTINE
MAINTENANCE   MAINTENANCE      TOTAL        BENEFITS TO    BENEFITS TO    TOTAL
COSTS         COSTS         COSTS          FARMERS      TRANSPORTER   BENEFITS       NET FLOW
................1..9........ .6......0. ----5.......6............---........0............0..., ....0.. 6..7..5.0.0.  6.1.  .1. . 5"0......1..  ..........0. ...00.............0..1....5 0 
YEAR  t   1,932,656,250   527,625,000  2,460,281,250  1,170,637,500   61,612,500  1,232,250,000 (1,228,031,250)
YEAR 2   1,932,656,250   912,000,000  2,844,656,250  2,341,275,000  123,225,000  2,464,500,000  (380,156,250)
YEAR 3    1,932,656,250   912,000,000  2,844,656,250 3,511,912,500   184,837,500 3,696,750,000   852,093,750
YEAR 4    1,932,656,250    527,625,000 2,460,281,250 4,682,550,000  345,030,000  4,929,000,000  2,468,718,750
YEAR 5                     527,625,000   527,625,000 4,682,550,000  246,450,000 4,929,000,000  4,401,375,000
YEAR 6                     527,625,000   527,625,000 4,682,550,000  246,450,000 4,929,000,000  4,401,375,000
YEAR 7                     527,625,000   527,625,000 4,682,550,000  246,450,000 4,929,000,000  4,401,375,000
YEAR 8                     527,625,000   527,625,000 4,682,550,000  246,450,000 4,929,000,000  4,401,375,000
ERR  IN X)=            83



- 152 -
Annex 5-1
Table 6
Economic Evaluatioti of Feeder Roads
PART I. Road Information
GENERAL
Road ADA FOAH TOTOPE
Zone            1 ACCRA VOLTA
Length         12,5          KMS
Accesibilitr             1        INDEX
Population        4,600      PERSONS
Ave. Headloading Dist.           1.82          KMS
FINANCIAL COSTS OF PHYSICAL WORKS
Rehabilitation   2,392,000    CEDIS/KM
Periodic   1,300,000    CEDIS/KM
Routine      200,000    CEDIS/KM
FOR SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Increase in Costs            20%
Reduction in Benefits             20%
PART II. Benefits
ACCRUING TO FARMERS
Situation Without Project (w/o)
Production per Household             3.86 TONS (all crops)
volume of Sales                       2.5 TONS (all crops)
Net Value of Exportable Sur    250,000 CEDIS (at farmgate prices per household)
Total Increases in Value of Exportable Surplus and Production With Project (W/p)
(Value added increases for main crops in each area calculated with results from cross-sectional
analysis to consider changes in accessibility (e.g. poor to good, fair to good))
Per Household                               T 0 T A L
Net Iner.    Inc. Prod.        Number    Net Incr.        Inc. Prod.
Val. Added       Tons          of HH      Val. Addsd         Tons
- Year 1            9,375         0.14           1,022   9,583,333              148
- Year 2           18,150         0.29           1,022  19,166,667              296
Year 3          28,125          0.43           1,022  28,750,000              444
- Year 4-15        37,500         0.58           1,022  38,333,333              592
ACCRUING TO TRANSPORTERS
Economic Costs                    w/o          w/p
VOC Light Goods Veh.            122           69 CEDIS/TON-KN
Headloading           900          900 CEDIS/TON-KM
Fares (Farm to Market)
Light Goods Vehicle            150          150 CEDIS/TON-KW
Headloading         2,308        2,308 CEDIS/TON-KM



- 163 -
Annex 5-1
Benefits to Transporters Between Farm and Parket                                                                Table  6
(to account for 15% less headloading when poor to good access, or 10% when fair to good)
Fares Paid         Economic Transp. Costs        Benefits to
w/o          w/p            w/o           w/p        Transporters
- Year 1       6,653,057   6,080,153         4,031,662   2,676,292          782,465
- Year 2       6,653,057   6,409,193         4,031,662   2,821,126          966,673
- Year 3       6,653,057   6,738,234         4,031,662   2,965,959        1,150,880
- Year 4-15   6,653,057   7,067,275          4,031,662   3,110,793        1,335,087
PART III. Economic Rate of Return
(economic costs)
Economic Costs        Benefits to  Benefits to          Net
Rehab.   Per. I Rout.   Farmers    Transporters           Flow
- Year  1      27,807,000   2,325,000         9,583,333       782,465   (19,766,201)
- Year  2                0   2,325,000       19,166,667       966,673    17,808,339
- Year  3                     2,325,000      28,750,000   1,150,880    27,575,880
- Year  4                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
- Year  5                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    31,343,421
- Year  6                    17,437,500      38,333,333   1,335,087       22,230,921
- Year  7                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
- Year  8                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,067    37,343,421
- Year  9                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
- Year 10                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
- Year 11                    17,437,500      38,333,333   1,335,087    22,230,921
- Year 12                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
- Year 13                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
- Year 14                     2,325,000      38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
- Year 15                     2,325,000    38,333,333   1,335,087    37,343,421
NPV  25,279,091  31,511,586   242,389,697   9,209,525   194,808,545
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                 121%
B/C RATIO             4.4
PART IV. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS                             Percent
Change             ERR
Considering:
- Increase in Costs                                   20%             94%
- Reduction in Benefits                               20%             89%
- Inc. Costs and Red. Benefits                 As Above               70%



a                                                             H                            - H~~~~:   E                                                                                          ---    
H    H                                                             44                              44                                             4.                                                                     .4M.  M
e.          ~~CeEO-H--                              -     -----e- ------                                                          s              ro.-           9 50       0        C ----              --      --    0- 4
In   C                                                                          M- - Mf   -             - --r --           -I4eC       .   4-l        54                    l-e  -        -- -- -  -Hi- -                M - - - -  --
RE-M.-                                                            am                                                                                                           -------cOc-4.OHO    4
ZZS                                z~~~~a ---- a4-n-eea                                                                                                    .     5U..oa-ac.n                              ..... 
H    H                                               a*  -                           o~~~~~~~~==        -         - -     - -     -===                                       - 4       -------
- - -- - - - --        - -   I                                                                                   - - - - - - - - - - --.   CC e O     4
H4          y                                              -                               C3 ----  -         ------
.1ws;6M,--                            - ----        ---
H    H                                                                                                                                 **      -                          0~~~~~~  -- ---          M--          - -  -*M
:10 ~     ~        ~                 H                                 HCC ....e                                                                                                                                              .         
H    H                                                                                ~~~~                                                       ~         ~~~~~~H ------                                         C
if   H  4  -                                  44              4               44           4                                 *4 4~--   --- ---       - 
H    H  fl                *  ~---------e--a                            H-------H~                                    4 0 4.   4.4.4.                       4    144              4       b       0      4       ..4 
H         e                 .1..-            a n na o . c n     ecinaec tme   .004                                                     ea-cc.a.  ,S    .a.e                            o    e,...         .e.cm,-.   e -
He  H...  *.   *.                                                                                                                                                                                             Ce     ~     ~~~~ .. .. .. ... .. .
H 0 H    ine-------------                                                                                                     ----------e .n on.e     .     as am.a Oa e oc c a   *e ----c-0 -M- *      -----m.cs-0--    ,1).cee.4



- 165 -
Listing of Phase 2 (1,140 km) Feeder Roads
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
NPV COSTS                   NPV BENEFITS
LENGTH               RENR          MIhT.         M6RIC.       TRAMSP.            8/C
m N Wl                                (RN)      POP.    (0'OOO)         (0'000)      (W'OOO)      (0'O0)    ERR  RATIO
ROAD DISTRICT: CAPE COAST
1  O8OSOIASI-FANTI NYANKOHASI            1.65    5.628       3,613,364       914,458  142,717,919    120,804   222%  3) 5
2  DOIINASE JN-DONINASE                  2.40    2,015       6,485,740    7,492,054   74,780,552        81,274    85%   '.4
3  FOSUANSA-ANANDOR                      5.00    3,438    15.875,455    3,704.161  156,001,718    190,724    77%   :.0
4  ODUNASE-A8AKAANPA                     6.40    4,131    12,828,609    4,535,989  107,080,402          95,955    67%   6.2
5  NO.9 VILLAGE JN-NO.9 VILLAGE          1.95       779      5,726.636    1,105,647   38,830,416    186,301    59%   5.7
6  JANAA-ADDADAN                         9.20    2,186    24,208,182    5,216,388  158,683,632    858,567    57%   5.4
7  ASSIN AFAN JN-ASSIN AFFAW             5.20    3,021    21,375,491   19,510,107  124,580,724          68,580    49%   3.0
8  JUNKWA-KRO08                          6.60    3,214    13,001,400   24,807,743   85,446,335    181,801    49%   2.3
9  NYANEANI JN-NYANEANI                   1.80      489      2,399,727    1,020,598   12,777,022         6,018    46%   3.7
10  ASEBU JN-NYANEDON-ASOMDWEE           17.50    8,464    23,779,996   65,620,075  161,678,578          15,919    45%   1.8
11  ASIKUNA-A8UAKWA                       5.00    3,781       9,021,036    3,543,742   44,767,219         4,723    44% , 3.6
12  ANDOE-ADADIETAN                       6.90    5,615    18,441,636   25,022,209  100,678,578           5,040    44%   2.3
13  APERADE-ANANFUPONS                   11.20    2,010    17,956,636    7,937,981   83,825,455          21,475    41%   3.2
14  JUKWA-NATRESO                         3.70       483      5,931,364    2,097,895   24,783,992    202,754    39%   3.1
15  EFJTU-ANKAASE JN                      7.00    6,668    66,729,636   66,223,821  303,732,079          24,522    38%   2.3
16  EWURABO JN-EWURABO                    1.30       520      4,144,500    4,057,889   16,640,940        21,276    34S   2.0
17  NYANEDON-NENSUKNA                     5.20    2,550    13,091,336   16,232,783   48,843,919          34,844    29%   1.7
18  OLD EBU-ABUENU                        3.60       963      5,836,509    2,039,812   17,583,949        92,151    29%   2.2
19  APOLININGO-APOLINGO JN               10.00    1,600    14,908,336    5,667,705   45,387,308          42,322    28%   2.2
20  ASURA-WIANGA                          4.30    1,309       9,264,545    3,047,618   25,891.611         4,651    27%   2.1
21  JABOUR-ANKAASE                        12.60    4,483    55,153,818   41,540,286  146,503,015         24,522    22%   1.5
22  PAPADJAN JN-TSETSEKASINU              3.40       584      7,301,936    2,406,287   16,063,481        85,817    21%   1.7
23  8ANTANA-ESSANAN JN                     5.30    3,236      7,708,000   21,853,810   31,045,809         5,962    141   1.1
24  ADADIETAM-EDUBIASE                   22.30    7,898    62,697,091   85,674,924  149,210,775          33,78S    11%   1.0
Sub-TotAl              159.50   75,065
1  TONFOKRO-FRAI S                       4.80    1,801    22,757,333   18,009,518   38,234,493          79,835     8%   0.9
2  AKOARUSA-ANISAIUW                      1.70      532      3,405,455    1,204,872    3,943,567         7,000      7%   0.8
3  BRE8IA-E8U JN -                       5.50    1,394    13,231,482   17,169,290   25,460,093          25,488      2%   0.8
4  UROFOYEDUA-hAIIEN                    27.20    1,843    79,352,364  120,085,863  103,271,715    179,409   -53%   0.5
5  AFRANGUA JN-AYELDU                    16.80    1,986    15,802,818   74,170,680   50,544,196         38,756   -63%   0.6
6  EQUASI-EKROFUL JN                     9.50    1,200    17,326,482   35,643,383   21,637,793          10,227   -67%   0.4
7  A8URANSA-KAFODZIDZI                   5.40    1,031    21,842,245   20,262,089    9,963,793           9,710   -73%   0.2
8  KAKOnDO JN-ASE8U JN                   15.80    1,600    41,928,718   59,285,373   28,850,391         12,190   -73%   0.3
Sub-Total               86.70   11,387
--- -  .--  -,- .   -..-- -.- -- --- -..-- --.-- -- --- --- --..- -.--- --.-- -- --- -.-.- -..-- -.--- --



-  166 -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
NPV COSTS                  KW  SEIEFITS
LEH6TH               REKM          MINT.         AGRIC.       TUNISF.            S/C
WAD NNE                               (RN)      POP.    (4000)         (*'000)       (4tOO0)     (4'000)    Ell  RATIO
ROAD DISTRICT: 8EKWAI
1  APONYASE JN-APONYASE                  4.00    2,216       8,328,273    2,834,993   98,295,096    340,434    88t   8.8
2  SENFI-BROSANKO                        4.00    2.119       9,333,455    2,267,995   73,291,240    184,472    65%   6.3
3  HOSEASO-ADUAGYKRON                   10.50    2,922    14,756,909    7,430,884  110,446,488    310,753    60%   5.0
4  WURUYIE-KOTWA                         8.00    3,404    17,956,373   25,703,816  104,280,347    982,913    46%   2.4
5  KUtPESE JN-KANIA6O                    9.90    4,612    19,542,473    7,016,608   73,350,081          18,178    35%   2.8
6  AGYENKWASO-NSUAYEN                   17.20    7,171    44,971,318   53,693,052  187,184,154    861,636    34%   1.9
7  AHENSAN-KYEABOSo                     18.90    5,213    44,084,909   58,999,923  187,289,924    299,275    33%   1.8
8  SENFI-TWENEASE                        4.00    3,096    18,018,091   50,805,579  106,810,390    207,858    30t   1.6
9  ABODOH-ANKAASE-APAU                  16.30    6,607    24,474,818   56,650,730  118,288,510    241,515    30% , 1.5
10  FOIENA-AYAASE                         2.70       496      6,152,273    1,913,620   17,095,429        76,813    27%   2.1
11  NANSO AKROPONG-ADUNAN .               7.20    1,127    14,203,182    5,102,988   37,572,i81    172,729    25t   2.0
12  HERIDANI-APENIIADI                   13.30    3,076    40,325,709    9,426,353   96,432,624  3,027,198    25%   2.0
13  NENANG-DOTON                         10.00    3,812    24,894,545    5,669,987   44,198,476    700,667    18%   1.5
14  SUNTAESU RD JN-NTOBROSO               2.70    1,441       4,149,182    1,530,205    7,270,679         4,532    15%   1.3
15  JUAPEASE JN-SUWRISO                   3.70       184      5,476,373    2,097,898    7,595,531    315,874    11%   1.0
Sub-Total              105.90   36,835
I  ABORE-JENINSO                         4.50    1,901       9,269,000    3,188,123   11,603,710        17,787     9%   0.9
2  NANSO NIN-KUWPESE JN                 13.60    4,803    38,846,827   42,454,971   76,456,110          40,156      8%   0.9
3  8OJAWE-HOMASE                         9.30    4,823    31,110,909   29,031,708   47,421,404           6,363      2%   0.8
4  FUNSO-ABOABO NO.1                    17.30       942    32,291,909   12,261,346   28,563,156    335,008          2%   0.6
S  BEKrERE JN-BEKYERE                     1.20       92      2,819,364       680,398    1,179,152       52,773    -8%   0.4
6  ANYASO JN-ANASO                       11.20      579    34,557,818    7,934,800   13,251,975    424,270    -9%   0.3
7  SUBIN CANP-ANWIUIA                    5.00       400    13,116,636    2,834,993    4,671,081    178,679   -10%   0.3
8  APENINADI-DA  _                       12.00      989    39,300,273   37,457,199   17,059,214  3,017,234   -71%   0.3
9  ANTOAKRON-PAIf-(TfMDE)               22.00       523    31,485,273   97,128,271   23,955,652         53,883   -90%   0.2
10  8EKWAI-JACOSU Ji                     17.75    3,476    18,009,236   68,441,835   14,124,992    185,066   -90%   0.2
Sub-Total              113.85   18,528
---                              ---------                                                                      -



- 167 -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
NPV COSTS                  m   OsE TS
LEHCTN              EMNR           HINT.         mUIC.       T111.               8/C
mm0  WE                               (aN)      POP.    (4'000)         ( '000)       (0OO0)     (0000)    En   RATIO
ROAD DISTRICT: HAtPONG
I  AKROFUSO-APPAH                        8.70    4,816    20,520,545   32,644,477  427,542,039    336,041   133t   8.0
2  APAAH-KYEKYEWERE                       1.70    1,049      4,347,945    1,204,872   81,888,092        85,840   125t  14.8
3  ASONOCAS0-80NWIRE                     6.90    5,721       5,289,455    4,890,363   62,838,147         7,081    82%   6.2
4  DOII-EJURA                           21.80    3,096    26,846,273   15,450,713  126,379,574    151,274    40t   3.0
5  ANKAASE-SWEDRU                        8.40    5,369    15,807,727   31,518,806   85,282,828           6,174    38%   1.8
6  NORASO-SEKRUWA                        2.70       551      1,958,545    8,428,560   13,993,722    104,903    38%   1.4
7  ASOKORE JN-AHENSAN                    10.20    3,165    12,319,764   38,272,835   73,063,329          9,389    35%   1.4
8  ANOAKO-AGONA-EFFIDUASE               31.2S    7,440    85,545,664  115,5671,070  283,675,181    590,201    24t   1.4
9  PEOASE                               25.45    3,997    61,022,273  112,359,750    210233563    4462476    20t   1.2
10  ANKANADUA-A8OTREYE-NANTWEWOSE         7.70    1,269       8,512,636    3,233,967   14,882,582    634,545    16% , 1.3
11  AFRAANSO-ANYNOFI                     47.50    3,4179    83,195,945   33,665,545  146,572,249  1,032,922    15%   1.3
12  SWEDRU-FANODE-IANPONITENIE-AHODNO  13.80    6,027    30,184,909   56,353,405   93,472,327             6,516    14%   1.1
Sub-Total              186.10   45,979
I  KNANANS -DUAPORUKO                    5.00    2,000    12,847,673    2,834,993    8,625,318          20,071     0%   0.6
2  ASOKORE JN-SINNA                      8.00    1,103    25,220,909   35,319,371  218,069,038          32,436    -1%   0.8
3  AGONA-ADUKRO-SUKO                    16.50    3,197    30,318,091   11,694,347   23,345,197          10,385    -1%   0.6
4  JEDIAKO-DROSONSO                      12.15      174    19,507,545    6,889,034   11,737,716  1,766,018    -3%   0.5
5  ABIREN-ASOVONASO                      9.30    2,357    28,657,355   52,096,073   58,599,505          53,273   -27t   0.7
6  *OSONCHECHE-SONIUSA                   7.75    1,302       4,594,364   28,104,655   22,171,472        13,843   -57%   0.7
7  8EPOA JN-A6ONA                        4.80       745    14,426,545   21,191,623    5,626,047         15,182   -88%   0.2
8  TETREN JN-BEPOASE-WIANOASE            14.70      986    46,998,936   64,899,345   16,334,529    235,315   -89%   0.1
9  VIANOASE-TETREN                       10.60      116    27,694,091   39,770,539    7,446,166    193,939   -98%   0.1
Sub-Total               88.80   11,980
- - - - -- -        --  - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 168 -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
Nm  CeOss                  WV UEITS
LENGTH              mm            Min.          AGIC.       TRN.               3/C
flNIUE                               (RN)     PO.    (*'O00)         (0')       (e'00O)      ('000)    EI  llNTO
ROAD DISTRICT: SUNYANI
1  SUNUNA-PONAKRON                     10.50    2,634    15,667,818    7,441,857  623,015,092  4,682,204   223%  27.2
2  GOAN CANP-GOATIFI                    1.60       866     5,419,700       907,198  137,711,639    319,018   159% 21.80
3  SUSANNO-SANTAASE                    13.90    1,458    16,515,900   43,391,478   89,702,199  1,846,215    35t  1.50
4  NIN-NONTWI                          12.00       500    32,867,027    8,504,980   78,692,365  1,320,136    24%  1.90
5  SANKORE-NKAVIE                       8.50       363    14,167,682    3,118,493   30,041,453  1,214,251    22%  1.80
6  NANSIN-AHVEREWAN                    12.00    2,718    16,978,647    8,501,592   40,058,820        14,406    20%  1.60
7  DUAYAV NKWANTA-WONAH-DNENASE        20.70    2,135    43,193,455   14,671,090   88,322,774  1,707,352    19t  1.60
8  BUKRU-KRUWA-AKOKOAMAN               3.90       546     8,629,564    2,211,295   16,725,418    195,230    19%  1.60
9  KENYASI NO.1-KHAHU                  15.30       289    23,262,455   10,843,849   45,903,880  2,581,393    18%  1.40
10  NKASIEN-ASUBINA                      4.80       595    13,006,442    2,721,594   17,605,195    188,985    12% 1.10
11  NYANE8EKYERE NO.2 JN-NYAAEIEKYERE   2.90        121     8,391,436    2,054,540   10,813,447       46,135    11%  1.00
12  NEHAHE JN-NOUEKAW                   33.00    5,564    67,619,273  123,823,819  191,397,780    250,782    10t  1.00
. ..... ----
Sub-Total              139.10   17,789
I  KUSAWUDIE-GANBIA NO.1               19.00      962    25,712,864   13,466,218   36,063,057    191,157        8t  0.90
2  AYONSO-8EREKIUH                     20.80       764    20,183,909   14,741,965   26,230,236       89,481     3%  0.80
3  WAHAHENSO-BARNIE                     6.70       998    11,659,955   20,915,317   18,333,353    179,665   -52%  0.60
4  KOKOFU JN-KWANE PUA                 19.40    1,621    68,895,055   72,793,432   60,843,554    724,346   -54%  0.40
5  SECHEN-SRENI                         6.30       664    21,185,455   23,637,201    9,896,398       25,587   -77%  0.20
Sub-Total               72.20    5,009
-- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- .   -.   .   -- - -- -.- - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -



- 169 -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
MN  CUSTS                  NH  EIEfITS
LENGTH               EIEm         MINT.         R6IC.       TV1"SF.            liC
WA  NHE                              (IN)     P0.    (t'00)         ('OO)        ($'000)      ($'000)    En   ITIO
ROAD DISTRICT: TECHINAN
I  JENA-ANANTEN                         4.00    3,777    55,100,000                 406,000,000 58,300,000    99%  8.43
2  SRAPEKRON-NIFRAHFADWENU              1.20    1,085    14,200,000                  85,700,000    600,000    78%  6.08
3  YANKYERA-BAEDI NO.2                  2.20    1,435    29,500,000                 154,200,000 22,100,000    77%  5.98
;            4  TANO8OASE-KRANKA-YEFRI               15.30    6,291   188,700,000                 676,200,000 97,100,000    58%  4.09
!            5  JENA-ANPONA                           4.00    5,598    42,400,000                 152,400,000  1,400,000    54%  3.63
6  FAANA-AGOSA-AKROFUON                 7.00    3,860    96,400,000                 292,600,000 53,100,000    51%  3.59
7  NSUTA-GYANKRON                       5.40    1,880    70,000,000                 198,900,000 30,300,000    47%  3.27
8  DROSOSO-TADIESO                      4.40    1,704    60,600,000                 147,100,000 26,400,000    42%  2.86
9  ASANPANAYE-NPEI-ASUOSO               4.20    1,267    56,000,000                 136,200,000 19,600,000    40%  2.78
10  NKWAESO JN-NIMAESO                   1.40       500    17,800,000                 37,800,000  6,900,000    38% .2.51
11  NSUTA-SERESO                         4.70    1,575    54,500,000                 124,400,000    900,000    35t  2.30
12  TECHINAN-TRAA                        5.00    1,135    63,500,000                 120,100,000 18,300,000    32%  2.18
13  OSUNASI-TINIE8U                      5.00    1,357    58,000,000                 1U8,900,000    700,000    28%  1.89
14  BONSU-DOTO8AA-AGYEIKRON              8.80    2,171   120,400,000                 233,300,000  3,300,000    28%  1.96
15  TANOSO-ASUDROFO                      6.70    2,015    89,900,000                 159,200,000  1,100,000    25t  1.78
16  ASEKYE-TON (NKWATEDE)                7.20    2,235    83,500,000                 133,300,000    900,000    23%  1.61
17  BOASE JN-BOASE                       4.40      916    60,600,000                  79,100,000 14,200,000    21%  1.54
18  NNOASE-NEHIRAA                      12.60    2,586   173,600,000                 223,300,000 40,000,000    21%  1.52
19  ASANTAN80  NKWANTA-ASANTANSO         6.20    1,139    73,400,000                  90,000,000    600,000    16%  1.23
20  8RAHOHO-NSUNESA-DONPOASE            24.00    4,318   330,600,000                 344,900,000 49,500,000    14%  1.19
21  NKOSIA-NFRARESU                      3.00    1,652    31,800,000                  35,100,000    400,000    14%  1.15
22  NAKYINNA8RE-ANAWA-YEREPENSO         17.70    1,974   243,800,000                 212,200,000 30,500,000    10%  1.00
Sub-Total             154.40   50,470
1  NAANPHIA-DENTEKU                     3.50    1,313    37,100,000                  35,200,000    300,000      9%  0.95
2  AFREFRESO-IEN                        7.80       850    98,500,000                 68,700,000 10,700,000      4%  0.81
3  NTANKORO-NTANUJW                     4.70       320    61,300,000                 24,400,000  4,900,000    -2n  0.64
4  OLD LONGORN- WLOM                   19.00    1,265   261,700,000                 136,000,000 19,500,000    -3t 0.59
5  NNOASE JN-31  SE                     8.20    2,606    86,900,000                  57,000,000           0    -4%  0.01
Sub-Total               43.20    6,354
.... ..... _ . ...-          --  -- -- -- -- -- -- --  -- - -- -- -- --  -- --  -- -- -- - -- -- -- --  -- -- -- -- -



-170 -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
NPV COSTS                  NPV BENEFITS
LENGTH               KEHMS        HINT.         ACRIC.       TRISSP.            8/C
10S mmZE                              (SN)     POP.   (W'OO0)          ('000)      ('000)      (0'000)    ERI  RATIO
ROAD DISTRICT: HOHOE
1  OSRAHANI JN-OSRAHANI                  1.60    2,145            8.7                      551.0         3.4   198% 67.00
2  NEW AYONA-DZOLU                       5.00    2,863           27.8                       88.9         1.9   101%  3.20
3  8ONWIRE JN-8ONWIRE ANANFRO            2.80    2,361          181.0                        53.9        2.8    73%  3.10
4  KWAIEKROM-OKADJAKRON                 21.00    6,700          110.2                       153.0        3.8    48%  1.40
5  APESOKU8I-TAKRABE                     5.00    3,226           53.0                       147.3        3.1    44%  2.80
6  OHIANANKYENE JN-OHIANANKYENE          7.00    1,776           37.4                        45.6        2.8    38%  1.30
7  BANDA-8ORA AHENFI                     7.00    6,825           84.3                       186.5       21.5    37%  2.40
8  TAPAABOTOASE-4TONKORGUAMAN           15.00    4,004           78.7                        91.4        2.3    32%  1.10
9  DOSVEKOFE-TAPAANANYA                  3.80    1,713           40.2                        76.3        1.6    30t  1.90
10  lOl010  KUNASI-LIKPENATE             11.00    4,145           70.0                        96.8        0.6    29%  1.30
11  ASATO-APESOKU8I                       5.50    3,176           75.8                       145.1        3.1    28%  0,50
12  LIKPENATE-DZOLU                      10.00    4,677          119.0                      213.1         4.5    27%  1.80
13  KPENE-TAYI                            5.00    2,609           68.9                       125.2        2.6    26%  1.80
14  BODADA-KUTE                          16.00    6,872          194.2                       306.2        6.5    23%  1.60
15  FIAFE-DAFOR                           ' 00    2,483           42.1                        58.0        1.0    22%  1.40
16  KUNDA-ADUNADIN                        1.80      868           19.0                        23.7        2.7    20%  1.30
17  8REHANIASE-PUSUPU                     9.40    2,419           49.2                      49.60        1.30    16%  1.00
18  AKPAFU-NENPEASEN-TODZI                3.50    2,207           42.2                       51.50       1.10    16%  1.20
19  DZOLU-KUTE                           14.60    4,885          187.0                     222.60        4.70    15t  1.20
20  SOKPO JN-NEH AYONA                    5.00    3,343           61.8                       68.70       1.43    13%  1.10
21  DODI PAPASE JN-A40Q0A                22.00    5,727          243.9                      261.60       5.50    13%  1.00
Sub-Total              177.00   75,024
1  K#AKU-KPETSU-BATOB                    6.50    1,999          68.80                     513.00        0.32      3%  0.70
2  AKANIAN-SEJANSr   J                  15.00    3,324         206.60                      909.00      10.70   -10%  0.49
3   ARUBE JN-BATOI                      13.-0    1,999         137.70                       68.30       7.90   -12%  0.50
4  NKWATA-SHARE                          7.50    1,423          88.90                       38.80       0.80   -20%  0.40
5  NONKRA-TNERES                         5.00      488          60.70                       14.60       1.70   -57%  0.20
6  ABUDJURO-DADEFRO                     34.00      251          53.00                       12.00       0.10   -67t  0.20
7  DJIG6E JN-DJI6BE                      6.40      226          67.80                       10.80       0.20   -76%  0.20
8  FESI JN-FESI                          5.50       191         58.20                        9.20       0.20   -76%  0.20
9  KWEKU-GYAESAYOR                       5.00       198         68.90                        5.40       0.60   -84%  0.08
Sub-Total               97.90   10,099
-- - . - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  -- - --.-    - - -  - .  - - - - - -  - -- - - - - - -  - -



- 17 1 -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
Nm  COSTS                 NPm  8EEFITS
LENGTH              REN          NAINT.        AGRIC.      THISP.             8/C
DW  N*"                             (II)      POP.    (4'000)       ('000)       (')     (4'000)    EIl  RATIO
ROAD DISTRICT: TAMALE
1 YEJI-ABRUNASI                        5.50   16,057          63.80                   1,268.50       7.50   195t 20.00
2  TOLON SAVELAGU                       3.50   37,893        257.60                     446.90       2.10    34t  1.74
3  NAJONG-YUNYO-OUNKURUDU              22.00   10,977        233.00                     459.00       0.70    31t  1.97
4  PONG TA"ALE-ZAWGU                   15.00    6,366        193.90                     293.50       1.60    21%  1.52
S NUASIA-JANGA                        26.00    6,907         218.70                     288.80       0.50    20t  1.32
6  SAWA8A-ABAUNASI                      5.00    1,236         55.20                      73.80       0.10    18%  1.34
7 NANTUGU-IANGBELUNG                  23.10    6,533         188.00                     227.70       1.40    17S  1.22
8  LA8ARGA-TU6U                         8.00    1,331         67.30                      81.80       0.50    17t  1.22
9  SANKPALA-WANBONG                     8.00    1,719        100.70                     118.90       0.70    14%  1.19
10  TALI-KULI                          30.00    6,166         260.50                     284.30       1.70    13% ,1.10
Sub-Total             146.10   95,185
I  TALI-ZAG6A                          10.00    2,034         82.30                      70.90       0.10     4%  0.86
2  KOLOFU JN-KOLOFU                   27.40    4,140         436.90                     286.30       1.70    -2t  0.66
3  KPAL8E-CHANAYILI                    11.00    1,214        142.50                      74.60       0.40    -8%  0.53
4  YOGU-WUN8U                          10.00    1,608         80.50                      56.00       0.10    -9%  0.70
5  GBOORANI JN-GOORNANI                 5.00    2,102         39.80                      24.80       0.10   -25%  0.60
6  YAPALA-ZOGOA                        48.00    1,926        213.60                     100.70       0.20   -71%  0.47
Sub-Total             111.40   13,024
---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---



- 172 -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
NP-  COSTS                   NPV 6EEFITS
LENGTH                REHI           HAINT.         AGRIC.        TRANSP.             B/C
NM   IN!                                 (M)       POP.    (4'000)          (0OOO)        ('00 )      (4'0OO)    ElS  RATIO
ROAD DISTRICT: TUMU
G 6WOLU-KUSALE                              8.80    3,695            74.00                        161.30         3.00    40%  2.20
2  TUHU-KASANA                             18.30    7,091           252.10                        309.50         6.00    16%  1.35
Sub-Total                 27.10   10,786
1  WELLEIBELLE-HALENBOI                    16.00    2,870           220.40                        125.30         2.40    -4%  0.57
2  NASUGUDELLE-YUGANTU                     10.40    1,354           121.50                         59.10         1.10   -14%  0.50
3  DONOYELE-DJARHA                         17.10    1,833           167.10                         80.00         1.50   -30% ,0.49
4  BUGUBELLE-SENTIE-JHANG                  12.40    1,824           116.70                         34.10         0.10   -63%  0.29
5  G6OLU-JEFESI                            25.60    4,786           144.80                         51.90         0.20   -72%  0.35
Sub-Total                 81.50   12,667



-  173  -
ANNEX 5-2
Table 2
NPV COSTS                   NPY BENEFITS
LENGTH                REHAS         MINT.         A61iC.        TRANiSP.            B/C
ROAD NANE                              (RN)      POP.    (*000)           (O0oo0)       (4'000)       (f'OOO)    ER2  RATIO
ROAD DISTRICT: YENDI
I  GULKPEGU-YENDI                          6.40   38,853           53.80                       346.00        0.50    98%  6.44
2  JAKPA-CHEREPONI                         5.70    3,394           47.90                        86.60        0.50    32%  1.82
3  KPACHIYILI-ADIBO                        2.70    2,754           22.80                       133.70        0.10    24%  1.48
Sub-Total                14.80   45,001
I  TOLON-DJONAKAYILI                     30.00    4,758           388.70                       156.90        0.90   -21%  0.41
2  LAANA-KENYANG                           4.00    1,501           34.40                       184.00        0.00   -34% ,0.50
3  SANG-PALARI                            28.60    4,069          331.60                        87.80        0.10   -59%  0.27
4  DOG9AN-JINAN                            9.00       833          95.30                        27.50        0.20   -59%  0.29
5  KYALE-TAfPOYE                          10.00    1,126          108.50                        23.60        0.00   -68%  0.22
6  SAB00A-WENCHIKI                        67.60    8,025          881.90                       154.10        1.10   -69%  0.18
7  KPABIA-JEGBUNI                         18.00    1,077          247.90                        25.80        0.10   -80%  0.10
8  GBNOIRE-WANJOGA                        48.00    2,318          604.50                        41.80        0.10   -90%  0.07
9  TIKARE-KATARE                          30.50       825         256.50                        20.50        0.00   -98%  0.08
Sub-Total               245.70   25,332
Total                  2,051  566,514



- 174 -
Annex 6-1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Project Files
1.    Schedule for Processing Procurement and Implementation,
October 1991, Department of Feeder Roads and World Bank              D57343
2.    Institutional Study of the Department of Feeder Roads,
October 1990, COWI-Consult, Denmark (P. Taylor).                     D57344
3.    Environmental Impact Assessment, August 1990, Associates
In Rural Development, USA (S. McCormick).                            D57345
4.    Local Organization and Finance for Routine Maintenance of
Feeder Roads in Ghana, March 1991, Associates in Rural
Development, USA (K. Ellison).                                       D57346
5.    Institutional Arrangements for Sustainable Routine Maintenance
of Feeder Roads in Ghana, July 1991, Associates in Rural
Development, USA (E. Connerley).                                     D57347
6.    Consultancy on the Labour-Based Coimponent, April 1991,
International Labour Office, Switzerland (A. Coleman).               D57348
7.    Socio-Economic Evaluation of Feeder Road Rehabilitation,
March 1990, Clive Daniels, UK and Ghanuxim, Ghana.                   D57349
8.    Socio-Economic Evaluation of Selected Feeder Roads, May 1991,
Ghanexim Economic Consultants, Ghana.                                D57350
9.    Socio-Economic Evaluation of Selected Feeder Roads, May 1991,
Comptran Engineering and Planning Associates, Ghana.                 D57351
10.   The Poverty Alleviation Component, July 1991, United Consultants
Ltd, Ghana.                                                          D57352
11.   Rural Road Sub-Sector Strategy Paper, June 1991, Department of
Feeder Roads and World Bank.                                         D57353
AF4IN
November 1991
(ListFile.NFR)



MAP SECTION



BURKINA FASO
PUlim:k.                           GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS
REHABILITATION AND
Bafi   '~~~~~\ned-o .t        bMAII INTENANCE PROJECT
c 9 rRoDu Glt,N UPPER    -    ' X -             Lusng                \   \             \                  Transport Syste1n,
\ i'SEP.Xi WEST                                                -                                lnosio '' \ / Project Zones, and
Conservation Reserves
_   WA |  ~ * _ w /    ,   f                NORTHERN          g5u      Korogo    /PROJECT ZONES
7      ROAD AREAS
bw  {_   \                * ~~~~~~~~~~~< .   }                     \ og  _         h~~~~~~~~~Saobo
D o b o y o,   Septegui                         PHASE iROADS
Daboya,                                                 dg \                                 PHASE 11 ROADS
a                          hcZrogs 6                                                                       PHASE II  TO BE SFLECTED
U                       ~~~~~~         ~~ROADS  LCE
S 9  . ^ tole  Damongo l           <                   t     \         !               ,;  ,   tJ                        NATIONAL *ARKS
GAME PRODUCTION RESERVES
COTE   \  SANCTUARIES
C6TE                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMAARY ROADS
MAJOR SECONDARY ROADS
D'IVOIRE )                                                                     aTPiMwoD 
MINOR SECONDARY ROADS
Barn                                                                                  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   AILROADS
0*                                                                                                                                      - ~~~~~~-oRIVERS
.-'BR  G-AHAFO       Kqte                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORTS
REGION HEADQUARTERS
Bok.                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
JLX w N / r ,  _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_  ,O   70    30  4   0     MILLs
{  >  ;1   @ , 'ASHANTIa                          '?% 0 )                        wo fo    no.* I I  I
7i                                                                                           lTOGO
t; ; \ <wor ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ jnob W X . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Caoe Caast ( Phase 2)
0         L         e \ CAPE COAST Kuaosa (Phase 21
Set.-                                         s                                         )<mo  <  >tvt Arlo (Phos e   1       K      3      e
KOFORIDe   IPhase 2)
TalsDnkwo                                                                                                 Dnahase 3)
~~~o, 0,.                                                                      W~'sokm~aRAD APhASe2
".4.~~~~~~~~.RmC 'C                                                                                 shda                                        Aech,", Oa(Phases 312
5..1 Wol5tAlp                                                                                                                                        WaCIalo (Phosase 2)
aho kr,d,   (Phase  31
NkrCwkow (Phosrt 31



