Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18743
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2319-GH)
December 23, 1998
Transport Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =   cedi (C)
US$ 1 1990  =   326 cedis (SAR)
1991  =   367 cedis
1992  =   437 cedis
1993  =   651 cedis
1994  =   964 cedis
1995  = 1,200 cedis
1996  = 1,500 cedis
1997  = 2,000 cedis
1998  = 2,300 cedis
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter-(m)        3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (t)  =   2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Danida      - Danish International Development Assistance
DFR         - Department of Feeder Roads
GOG         - Government of Ghana
ERR         - Economic rate of return
ICB         - International Competitive,Bidding
ICR         - Implementation Completion Report
IMT         - Intermediate Means of Transport
MPBS        - Maintenance Performance and Budgeting System
NCB         - National Competitive Bidding
NFRRMP    - National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
NGO         - Non-Government Organization
OPEC        - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPF         - Project Preparation Facility
RTTP        - Rural Travel and Transport Program
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
SDR         - Special Drawing Rights
SSATP       - Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
TRP-1       - First Transport Rehabilitation Project
TRP-2       - Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
USAID       - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:     Peter Harrold, AFC 10
Sector Manager:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFTT2
Task Team Leader:     Snorri Hallgrimsson, AFTT2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2319-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statementlevaluation of objectives
1
B. Achievement of project objectives and components
C. Major factors affecting the project                              7
D. Project sustainability                                           7
E. Bank performance                                                 9
F. Borrower performance                                             9
G. Assessment of outcome                                            10
H. Future operation                                                 10
I. Key lessons learned                                              11
PART l - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments                                 14
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
15
Table 3:     Project Timetable                                      17
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual    17
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation              18
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation                   18
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project                            19
Table 8A:   Project Costs                                           21
Table 8B:    Project Financing                                      21
Table 9:     Socio-Economic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Studies  22
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                              24
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements          26
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                           26
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                               27
APPENDIX
A.    Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
B.    Borrower's contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2319-GH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Feeder Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (NFRRMP) in Ghana, for which Credit 2319-GH in the
amount of SDR 40.5 M (US$ 55.0 million equivalent) was approved on February 7, 1992, and
made effective on July 22, 1992.
The original closing date was June 30, 1997. The Credit was extended for one year and
closed on June 30, 1998. The last disbursement took place on November 16, 1998, and an
undisbursed amount of SDR 1,205,076.49 (US$1,681,334.77 equivalent) was cancelled on
December. 10, 1998. Parallel financing for the project was provided by Danida and USAID.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by OPEC and Japan.
The ICR was prepared by Farida Khan of AFTT2 and reviewed by Bertrand de Chazal,
Acting Manager, AFTS3. It is based on material in the project file and on review in Ghana. One
cofinancier provided comments that are included in the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion mission in
May 1998. The Borrower commented on the draft ICR and its views appendixed to this report
and are reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and its own evaluation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2319-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance is a crucial part of Ghana's efforts in
agricultural development and in its strategies for economic recovery and growth, poverty
alleviation and food security. A start was made in the 1980's under earlier IDA trunk road and
transport projects to upgrade the maintenance of feeder roads and to strengthen the agency
responsible for them, the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR). While progress was made in
rehabilitating feeder roads in selected areas and in building up the DFR, the restoration of feeder
roads and further strengthening of the DFR needed concerted action. The Government of Ghana
(GOG) sought IDA's support in designing and implementing such a program, and the National
Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (NFRRMP) was to finance the first phase
of this, complementing the transport sector operations under the Transport Rehabilitation
Projects (TRP-1 and TRP-2) whose main emphasis was on rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance of trunk roads. These projects were needed to rebuild Ghana's road network, and
were part of a phased restoration of the transport sector.
Project Objectives
ii.    The three main goals of the project were: (a) to provide improved feeder road access to
transport agricultural produce and agricultural inputs to and from farms or villages and nearby
markets and thereby increasing food and cash crop production; (b) to improve mobility and
economic opportunity for the rural poor; and (c) to improve the institutional capacity of DFR to
sustain the feeder road program over time and to ensure the maintenance of the rehabilitated
road network. These main goals were to be achieved by (a) full rehabilitation of 2,500 km of
feeder roads in 16 selected road areas with high and medium agricultural potential; (b)
regravelling of 2,850 km of feeder roads which were rehabilitated since 1982 and were now
under maintenance; (c) construction of up to 5,000 culverts including spot improvements on
some 720 km of selected feeder roads to provide minimum access; (d) road maintenance and
workshop equipment and tools and spare parts; (e) consultant services for engineering design
and contract supervision for (a), (b) and (c) above, and for an organization and management
study; a maintenance performance budgeting system development; and a socio-economic
impact study; (f) technical assistance to support DFR in contract management, road planning,
road maintenance and equipment maintenance/repair operations; (g) overseas training for DFR
staff and support for the Koforidua labor-based training school; (h) support to the local
contracting industry including assessment of industry performance; provision of training, and
light equipment for labor-based contractors; (i) rural mobility and environmental improvements
and assistance to NGOs and women; and (j) DFR decentralization support to develop and test a
district-based routine maintenance system on feeder roads involving local communities.



- ii -
Achievement of Objectives
iii.   The achievement of the project objectives, as set out in the Staff Appraisal Report, is
considered substantial.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
iv.    There were no major factors, which were not subject to government control. The major
factor affecting the project and subject to govemment control was the funding of routine and
recurrent maintenance. The major factor affecting the project and subject to the implementing
agencies' control was the rate of implementation which was initially much slower than planned.
However while a one year extension to the credit was required, once the streamlined processing
of contracts was in place, the rate of disbursements increased resulting in timely implementation
of the civil works.
Project Sustainability
v.    Even though satisfactory levels of maintenance funding have been achieved by 1998
through the Road Fund, the probability that the project will maintain the achievement generated
in relation to its major objectives is considered uncertain until these levels have been proven
stable, release of funds is timely, and the process towards decentralization has matured.
Bank Performance
vi.   The Bank's performance is considered satisfactory in project identification, preparation
assistance, appraisal and supervision.
Borrower Performance
vii.   The performance of the implementing agency, the Department of Feeder Roads, (DFR) is
considered highly satisfactory in preparing and implementing the project. The performance of
the Borrower, in particular the parent ministry, the Ministry of Roads and Transport', and of the
Ministry of Finance is considered unsatisfactory in that they did not honor their agreements
related to the financial covenant covering routine and routine maintenance funding as agreed in
the Development Credit Agreement.
Assessment of Outcome
viii.  The project's major objectives, as defined in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report of
November 19, 1991 were achieved and the outcome is judged satisfactory. In terms of
sustainability the outcome is rated uncertain.
I Until 1997 the Ministry of Roads and Highways.



- iii -
Future Operations
ix.    The Department of Feeder Roads has put in place the Maintenance Performance
Budgeting System for implementation of the maintenance program. This now covers most
regions and has shown good results. Based on the findings of a decentralization pilot undertaken
in six districts in the Eastern Region the Department of Feeder Roads is now deconcentrating its
activities to a total of ten districts including the transfer of funds, supervision responsibility,
personnel and some equipment.
Key Lessons Learned
x.    The key lesson learned is the importance for the Government to have a clear strategy on
maintenance funding, in particular for feeder roads, and to have demonstrated effectiveness of
the funding by adequate and timely release of required funds. As a corollary to this, a clear
implementation strategy is equally important, especially in the light of the current
decentralization process.
Further lessons are that:
*  while the roads selected for rehabilitation were confirmed with the democratically elected
District Assemblies, an earlier and more direct involvement of stakeholders in the selection
and other decision making would have been advantageous,
-  economic evaluation and selection methods should be simple,
-  there is a need to address the issue of high design standards and the resulting problem of
over-investment, particularly because traffic volumes remain very low even after
rehabilitation,
*  labor-based construction should be pursued,
3  the rehabilitation of feeder roads needs to be carried out within a network approach, and and
3  a Road Fund with a clear mechanism for revenue raising and an autonomous Board is a
suitable arrangement to enhance stability of maintenance funding.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2319-GH)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.    The three main goals of the project were: (a) to provide improved feeder road access to
transport agricultural inputs and agricultural produce to and from farms or villages and nearby
markets and thereby increase food and cash crop production; (b) to improve mobility and
economic opportunity for the rural poor; and (c) to improve the institutional capacity of DFR to
sustain the feeder road program over time and to ensure the maintenance of the rehabilitated
road network. These main goals were to be achieved by implementation of the following
components: (a) full rehabilitation of 2,500 km of feeder roads in 16 selected road areas with
high and medium agricultural potential; (b) regravelling of 2,850 km of feeder roads which
were rehabilitated since 1982 and were now under maintenance; (c) construction of up to 5,000
culverts including spot improvements on some 720 km of selected feeder roads to provide
minimum access; (d) purchase of road maintenance and workshop equipment and tools and
spare parts; (e) consultant services for engineering design and contract supervision for (a), (b)
and (c) above, and for an organization and management study; a maintenance performance
budgeting system development; and socio-economic impact studies; (f) technical assistance to
support DFR in contract management, road planning, road maintenance and equipment
maintenance/repair operations; (g) overseas training for DFR staff and support for the
Koforidua labor-based training school; (h) support to the local contracting industry including
assessment of industry performance; provision of training, and light equipment for labor-based
contractors; (i) rural mobility and environmental improvements and assistance to NGOs and
women; and () DFR decentralization support to develop and test a district-based routine
maintenance system on feeder roads involving local communities (Extract from Staff Appraisal
Report No. 9823-GH). The goals as stated in the SAR were realistic and achievable.
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
2.    The achievement of the project objectives, as set out in the Staff Appraisal Report, is
considered substantial. The road rehabilitation and maintenance program was carried out
largely in accordance with SAR forecasts. In the institutional support program, changes in
emphasis between sub-components developed over the project period (see Table 8A) with
support to DFR line positions partly replacing efforts originally foreseen as separate
components, notably for construction industry support, rural mobility and environment, and
decentralization. However, the institutional support program did on the whole achieve its
purpose as detailed in para. 12 (e) through () below.
3.    The economic evaluation of the project was based on quantifiable and unquantifiable
benefits. Economic rates of return (ERR) were calculated at project appraisal for each individual
feeder road selected for the first (560 kmn) and second phase (1,140 km) of the project. ERR for



- 2 -
the third phase (800 km) were extrapolated from Phase 1 and Phase 2 economic analyses since
data on these roads had not been collected and analyzed at appraisal. Using a producer surplus
approach two major benefit streams were estimated: (i) increases in agricultural value added due
to increases in production and (ii) reduced transport costs or savings accruing to transporters on
existing production. ERRs were subjected to sensitivity analyses assuming (i) a 20% increase in
cost, (ii) a 20% reduction in benefits, and (iii) a simultaneous 20% increase in costs and a 20%
reduction in benefits. Estimated ERRs were on average 47% for Phase 1, which is typical high
return for feeder roads rehabilitation. When subjected to scenario (iii) the ERR would drop to
27% and as many as 14 out of 42 feeder roads would have a return of less than 10%. Phase 2
project roads showed a similar reaction to sensitivity analysis and 59 out of 121 road links had
an ERR of under 10%. Phase 3 roads had an average ERR of 42%.
4.    The same methodology of calculating ERR was used at the end of the project to compare
expected and realized economic benefits. The study areas were geographically defined and not
based on Phase 1, 2 and 3 execution. The average ERRs are therefore not comparable to those
mentioned in the above but individual comparisons of ERRs per road link are presented in the
Annex. Average ERR is 54% as compared to 36% at appraisal with substantial individual
variations. Particularly the road links in the Cape Coast road district have lower than expected
retums. A combination of factors may have contributed to this. In some cases the time lag
between the studies supplying the cost estimates, the signing of the contracts and the actual
contract execution were substantial thus leading to higher than expected costs. Supervision of
contracts may not always have been as tight as desirable thus leading to supplemental time.
Production and population data for the baseline were obtained from secondary sources and may
be incorrect. Contracts were frequently bundled in multiple lots while the detailed surveys were
concerned with particular road links. This may have made it difficult to obtain exact contract
amounts.
5.   In the Bolgatanga, Hohoe, Tamale, Tumu and Yende Road Districts, an economic
analysis was carried out on 25 selected project roads. Twenty-two of the roads had a positive
ERR, ranging from eleven to 200% and twenty roads had a higher ERR than expected at
appraisal. The average ERR was 91%. Three project roads have negative ERRs, attributed to
poor harvests following drought. The detailed analysis of 21 project roads in the Mampong,
Techiman, Ada, Keta, and Ho showed only positive ERRs between 11 and 75%. Nine roads
have ERRs of over 75% but the exact rate was not provided by the consultants. Eleven roads,
for which comparative data is available had an ERR at or above the forecasted rate, while five
roads have a lower return. The average ERR for this study area is 48% based on the highest
rates calculated at 75%. No negative ERRs were registered. Of the thirty roads analyzed in
detail in Bekwai, Cape Coast and Sunyani Road Districts ten roads had higher ERRs than
expected while two roads had negative returns. The positive rates ranged from 2% to 176% and
the average ERR was 32%. Twelve out of the thirty roads did not pass the 10% threshold set at
appraisal while eight roads had ERRs of over 50%. Roads with ERRs below 10% typically
incurred higher than expected costs for works.
6.    At appraisal unquantifiable benefits were expected to include (i) improved access to
markets, extension services, and other social services, (ii) enhanced DFR institutional capacity,
(iii) increased rural employment, (iv) improved transport services to rural communities, (v)
environmental protection, and (vi) alleviation of rural poverty. Throughout the implementation



-3 -
of the project, these benefits were assessed through in-depth interviews and final reports were
prepared as input into the ICR.
7.    The objective of providing "improvedfeeder road access to transport agricuiltural
produce and agricultural inputs to andfrom farms or villages and nearby markets thereby
increasingfood and cash crop production" was achieved. It is, however, necessary to recall that
transport, while a necessary component in the achievement of an increased agricultural activity,
cannot on its own result in greater production. During the period of implementation of the
project, factors outside the control of the project, such as an increase in the cost of agricultural
inputs, the inflation rate, and the lack of rainfall may impact negatively on the net gain in
benefits from the project. Socio-economic impact studies carried out throughout the duration of
the project highlighted that in general agricultural production increased and became more
diversified. Loss of harvest was also reduced and the production of perishables intended for
marketing, such as tomatoes, increased. Improvements in production and post-harvest storage
can be attributed to advice provided by extension workers and to the increased use of fertilizers
and chemicals, both having become more easily available because of improved access. This
suggests that the project contributed to an increase in the income of rural households and thus to
the alleviation of rural poverty. An exception are the upper east and the northern regions which
were negatively affected by erratic rainfall.
8. The second objective "improving mobility and econiomic opportun7ity for the rural poor"
was also achieved. The socio-economic impact studies indicated marked increase in the number
of taxis and small vehicles on all rehabilitated roads, most noticeable being the number of round
trips being made by commercial transport operators. It needs, however, to be pointed out that
the average daily traffic on the rehabilitated roads remains very low. For example, in Study
Region I (Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Greater Accra, and Volta) 15 out of 21 road links have less
than 30 vehicles a day. The use of intermediate and non-motorized means of transport has also
remained low even when the terrain is conducive to its use. This points to the need to gain a
better understanding of the factors which influence the demand and supply of transport services
in Ghana. For example, it might be that there is little need to travel or it might be that IMT and
vehicle ownership is unduly restricted. In fact, "improving mobility" may primarily have been
achieved by bringing services to the rural poor. For example, outreach personnel, such as
agriculture extension workers and nurses, now visit the villages along the rehabilitated roads
more frequently than before. There are also indications that the stationing of teachers may
improve if they are assured easy access to their duty station.
9.    The third objective "improving the institutional capacity of the Department of Feeder
Roady to sustaini thefeeder roadprogram over time and to ensure the maintenance of the
rehabilitated road network" was also achieved. The project was implemented by the
Department of Feeder Roads and was the first free-standing feeder roads project funded by the
Bank in Ghana and one of the first in the Bank's portfolio. The DFR enjoys a reputation as one
of the best feeder roads agencies in the Africa region; is technically well placed to deliver
services on the network; and enjoys a high professional output from its headquarters and
regional staff. However, DFR now faces the challenge of adapting to the Government's
decentralization policies. The Department is developing a strategy to place the organization in
the evolving decentralization and has started pilot operations to that effect.



-4 -
Civil works
10.   The implementation of the civil works components was achieved. The components
included:
(a) fidi rehabilitation of 2,500 km offeeder roads in 16 selected road areas with high and
medium agricutltural potential - this target was exceeded with 2,951 km (118 percent) being
implemented;
(b) regravelling of 2,850 km offeeder roads which were rehabilitated sinice 1982 and were now
under maintienanice - this target was not fully met with 2,474 km (87 percent) being
implemented. Some of the USAID and Danida funds were re-directed to spot improvement
rather than regravelling operations.
(c) construction of uip to 5, 000 ciulverts inicludinig spot improvemenits on7 some 720 km of selected
feeder roads to provide miniimuim access - this target was exceeded with culverting
reestablishing access on 1,218 km (169 percent). This was due to USAID and Danida funds
being re-directed from regravelling to spot improvement.
11.   The table below sets out the amount funded by each donor. The civil works represented
US$ 47 million or 81 percent of the IDA credit (US$ 55 million). Civil works under IDA (230
contracts) and OPEC (21 contracts) funding were implemented by equipment-based methods and
included some 34 ICB contracts although all were implemented by local contractors. Civil
works under USAID and Danida funding were implemented by labor-based contractors who had
been trained by the the Department of Feeder Roads.
Table 1:   Civil Works Achievements vs. Target (km)
Target Achieved  Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual Achieved
SAR     total    IDA   DANIDA  USAID    GOG    OPEC
REHABILITATION    2,500    2,951    1,450       681     665      155         0    118%
REGRAVELLING        2,850    2,474    1,681       0      198     225       370     87%
SPOT REHAB.           720    1,218       0      504      714        0        0    169%
Total               6,070    6,643    3,131   IJ185    1,577     380      370     109%
Note: Targetfor rehabilitation: 2,500 Akm of which 1,500 knm through capital intensive under IDA;
GOG and OPECfinancing; 1, 000 Akm through labor-based US4ID and Danida financing
12.   The regravelling component was supposed to involve regravelling of feeder roads which
had been previously fully rehabilitated between 1983 and 1990 (ref. page 15 of SAR) and were
now in a maintainable condition. Rehabilitated feeder roads require regravelling on average
every 6 years (SAR page 18). In practice very little maintenance had been undertaken and this
component could better be described as rehabilitation. Moreover, some of the roads were not
initially constructed to an engineered standard and required provision for extensive drainage
structures. Therefore, the work undertaken was more of rehabilitation than regravelling. This is
evidenced by the cost/km comparisons set out in the table below. This point highlights the
concern in the report of the expected unsustainability of the project. While the unit costs
estimated in the SAR (page 22), US$ 18,000/km for NCB and US$ 23,000/km for ICB, came in



- 5 -
less at average of US$ 15,333/km for NCB and US$ 19,156/km for ICB respectively, the unit
costs for regravelling were almost double the estimate of US$ 7,500/km at US$ 12,927/km.
Table 2:     Units costs for rehabilitation and regravelling under IDA
and OPEC funding
Contracts ITEM   CATEGORY - 1 COMPONENT                    km      USD          USD / km
4 1 A(l) ROAD REHABILITATION - PHI (ICB)               167   4,253,313      25,469
23 1 A(2) ROAD REHABILITATION - PHI (LCB)               318   6,663,817      20,955
28 1 A(3) ROAD REHABILITATION - PH2 (LCB)               465   5,910,989      12,712
30 1 B(1) ROAD REHABILITATION - PH2 (ICB)               412   6,837,859      16,597
49 1 B(2) ROAD REGRAVELLING - PH2 (LCB)                 536   8,043,080      15,006
84 1 B(3) ROAD REGRAVELLING - PHI (LCB)               1,002  12,126,289      12,102
12       ROAD REHABILITATION - PH3 (LCB)                170   2,037,385      11,985
230 IDA                                                3,070  45,872,732      14,942
28 OPEC  ROAD REGRAVELLING - PH2 (LCB)                  370   4,495,432      12,150
Average costs    REHABILITATION - ICB                         579  11 ,091,172      19,156
REHABILITATION - NCB                          953   14,612,191     15,333
REHABILITATION - all                        1,532  25,703,363      16,778
REGRAVELLING                                 1,908  24,664,801      12,927
.Source: lAfIfSU accounting report Noovember 1 1998
Equipment Purchase
(d) road maintenance and workshop equipmenit and tools and spare parts; this component is
considered to be unsuccessful. DFR purchased, as planned, maintenance equipment under IDA
funding. However, shortly afterwards, the Ministry introduced a policy to undertake 90 per cent
of routine maintenance works through contract rather than through force account, and DFR then
proposed to sell the equipment, valued at US$ 1.186 million, directly to the labor-based
contractors and return the proceeds to the credit. The Bank agreed to this highly unusual
arrangement on the condition that an agreed, transparent auction process be employed. This was
done, but had only limited success, since the labor-based contractors, although they had been in
business for several years, were still not able to secure loans to purchase the equipment. This
inability of the contractors, points, however, also to often encountered problems with the
commercial banks which are not accustomed to assist emerging businesses. The DFR now
intends to distribute the remainder of the equipment to its regional offices.
Technical Assistance
(e) consultanit services for engineering design and contract supervision for(a), (b) and (c)
above, andfor an organization and management study; a maintenance performance budgeting
system (MPBS) development; and a socio-economic impact study; Danida devoted considerable
funds to the development and implementation of the MPBS including funding long-term
technical assistance for the implementation. It is proving successful with the MPBS now
operational in 5 regions. While the system itself has proven to be successful, the implementation
rate has been less than required to cover the maintainable network within the immediate future,
due largely to insufficient budget allocations and very unreliable flow of funds. The socio-



economic impact studies have been used to monitor the impact of the project.
(f) technical assistance to support DFR in conitract managemeit, roadplanning, road
maintenance and equipment maintenance/repair operations; the long-term technical assistance
in the form of a Contract Management Specialist (CMS) is considered successful in that it
facilitated the implementation of the project components. This input was originally planned at
22 months, but the Department was keen that the CMS should continue since they considered
that he was making a valuable contribution. The result was 58 man-months at a cost of US$
770,310. Danida financed a total of 146 staff-months of advisors in road maintenance, planning,
equipment maintenance and training for about US$ 1.9 million. The success of this is closely
related to DFR's ability to retain counterpart staff that was trained, and as such the sustainability
is uncertain.
(g) overseas traininggfor DFR staff and support for the Koforidua labor-based training school:
Training was originally planned (SAR) to be financed under USAID funds but later transferred
to IDA funds by amending the credit agreement. Both in-country and training abroad have been
undertaken. The construction of the school buildings was funded by the USAID and the
Government. Danida funded the construction of water and power supply, construction of staff
housing, procurement of teaching equipment and materials, construction equipment and vehicles,
kitchen equipment and furniture. This component is considered successful.
(h) support to the local contractinig incduistry inchluding assessment of induistry performance;
provision of training, anid light equipment for labor-based contractors; DFR launched several
regional training seminars and in Accra focused on procurement of services for civil works and
the role of industry in the economic development of the country. The evaluation of these
seminars was rated as highly beneficial by all participants of the seminars and the input is
considered successful. Danida funded the provision of equipment to 16 labor-based contractors
in an amount of US$ 180,000 (equivalent) per contractor and considers this to have been
successful.
(i) riural mobility anid environmenltal improvements anid assistance to NGOs anid women; this
component was due to be funded by Danida, which however only funded the environmental
improvements in the form of tree planting which nevertheless was considered to be unsuccessful
as the final survival rate of the trees was low. IDA funded a similar component through the
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project. The component was reviewed in the June 1998 ICR of
the project and was considered successful.
(j) suipport to DFR 's decentralization effort to develop and test a district-based routine
maintenianice system on feeder roads involving local commuJnities. Department of Feeder Roads
employed a local consultant firm under IDA funding to undertake this work in six districts in the
Eastern Region. Based on the findings DFR is now deconcentrating its activities to a total of ten
districts including the transfer of funds, supervision responsibility, personnel and some
equipment and the input is considered to have been marginally successful.



-7 -
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
13.   There were no major factors, which were not subject to government control. The major
factor affecting the project and subject to government control was the funding of routine and
recurrent maintenance. This was in particular the domain of the Ministry of Roads and
Transport. While the govemment's own budget funding to the road sector was significant
during the period of the project, the allocations were skewed to major rehabilitation with the
result that routine maintenance remained seriously under funded. This did not however affect the
process of implementation of the project as such, although it did impact on the cost and input
required for the regravelling component as outlined in para. 12 above.
14.   The major factor affecting the project and subject to the implementing agencies' control
was the rate of implementation. Implementation, and consequently disbursement, was initially
much slower than planned in part because the Department of Feeder Roads did not have
sufficient experience and capacity to process the large number of contracts involved.
Contributing to this was that, with the move from military government to democracy which
coincided with the early years of the project, every contract had to go to parliament for
approval. The project was rated as unsatisfactory in Bank supervision reports dated March 1995,
December 1995 and June 1996. However from the mid-term review, June 1996 onwards, the
project implementation improved substantially and the ratings changed to satisfactory in
supervision dated February 1997. While the initial start-up had been difficult, thus requiring a
one year extension to the credit, once the streamlined processing of contracts was in place the
rate of disbursements increased resulting in timely implementation of the civil works. This was
in part due to the contribution of the Contract Management Specialist. Under the project over
368 contracts were processed by the Department of Feeder Roads over a six year period.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
15.   Even though satisfactory levels of maintenance funding have been achieved by 1998
through the Road Fund, the probability that the project will maintain the achievement generated
in relation to its major objectives is considered uncertain until these levels have been proven
stable, and the process towards decentralization has matured. The IDA credit included a
covenant on the amount of funding required for recurrent and routine maintenance namely that
"the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual budgetary allocations will be made for the
recurrent and routine maintenance of feeder roads in its budget in line with the agreed upon
funding schedule for the 1993-1996 period, namely the equivalent of US$ 1,870,000 in Fiscal
Year 1993, the equivalent of US$ 2,750,000 in Fiscal Year 1994, the equivalent of US$
3,610,000 in Fiscal Year 1995 and the equivalent of US$ 4,480,000 in Fiscal Year 1996". These
targets were only met in 1994 and again in 1998, but actual releases fell well short of allocations
in every year until 1998, when releases finally seem to catch up with allocations. The table
below indicates the budget allocation and actual budget releases as compared to the targeted
covenants in the Development Credit Agreement. The difference in government budget
allocation for routine maintenance and the substantially reduced releases also posed problems
during the project. In 1998 it appears, however, that allocation will be sufficient and timely and
that routine maintenance can be carried out as programmed.



- 8 -
Table 3: Routine & recurrent maintenance funding for Department of Feeder Roads
1993-1998
Year       SAR              Allocation        Budget releases    Shortfall
US$ m      Cedis m    US$ m      Cedis m     US$ m       US$ m
1993       1.87       1,230      1.87       300*        0.46        1.41
1994       2.75       2,623      2.75       538*        0.56        2.19
1995       3.61       1,160      0.97       860*        0.72        2.89
1996       4.48       3,875      2.58      2,660*       1.77        2.71
1997       5.50       9,000      4.50       5,365       2.68        2.82
1998       5.50      12,500      5.43      12,500       5.43        0.00
Notes: BugLet releasesfor routine andi recurrent onlv
Releasesxfor 1998 as of Novemiber 1998.
* Source: Infrastructure Expenditure Review 1997
16.   Besides repeatedly requesting the government to honor its agreements, neither the Bank
nor other donors acted on the maintenance funding issue through the project itself (the Bank
never proposed suspension of the project). The government indicated that this issue would be
addressed through reform of the Road Fund. The Bank and other donors pursued this problem
of lack of maintenance funding through the mechanism of the Highway Sector Investment
Program which involved changes to the Road Fund. Ghana had had a Road Fund in place since
1984 and the Road Fund was supposed to address the maintenance funding problem as outlined
in the Staff Appraisal Report of the Second Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project (Para. 6.01
(iii)). The objective of ensuring fully funded maintenance was not achieved under that project.
Thus the government decided to restructure the Road Fund. The Road Fund Board, with
representation from the private sector, was inaugurated as a condition of effectiveness of the
IDA funded Highway Sector Investment Credit on January 31, 1997. Nevertheless there was
initially little evident improvement, and at a multi-donor meeting at Akossombo December 1997
the donor community was expressing serious doubts about the achievements in allocating funds
to routine maintenance. The Road Fund had sufficient funds available but these funds were not
being used to cover the routine maintenance requirements as first priority. In that year, 1997,
the Department of Feeder Roads received only Cedis 5.365 billion (US$ 2.68 million) for
routine and recurrent road maintenance as opposed to the required and budgeted amount of
Cedis 9 billion (US$ 4.5 million). During 1997 the Road Fund released US$ 60 million to the
road sector of which only 4.5 percent went to the Department of Feeder Roads. However, in
1998 the objective of fully funding maintenance was achieved.
17.   The probability of the sustainability of the institutional capacity development of the
Department of Feeder Roads is considered likely given the high quality of the department's
staff.



-9 -
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
18.   The Bank's performance is considered satisfactory in project identification, preparation
assistance, appraisal and supervision. The Bank staff worked closely with the Borrower in
developing a strategy paper for the rural road sector in Ghana and defining a "maintainable
network" as a basis for the project. All works were to be done on a consolidated network which
was considered to be the extent which would be viable for the Government to maintain.
19.   The project supported the use of relatively small local contractors which results in a
greater number of contracts (230 contracts under IDA financing and 21 contracts under OPEC
financing) with a wide geographical distribution reflecting the capacity of the local contractors.
This has meant that it is not possible for Bank staff to directly verify that all works are
implemented as planned. The Bank staff undertook regular field visits during missions and in
November 1997 financed an independent technical audit of the IDA and OPEC funded works
which indicated that works had been implemented according to the contracts.
20.   In view of the large number of contracts, the Bank's approach makes it essential that the
economic analysis and design criteria are very clearly defined at the outset. There was concern
that the regravelling works were not subject to economic analysis and the subsequent unit costs
were cause for concern. The Bank team therefore, in lieu of other information available, placed
a limit on the unit cost per km of US$ 25,000/km (the average unit cost hides a wide range in
unit costs), reviewed the traffic counts and requested that certain roads be eliminated from the
proposed list of roads.
21.   The Bank acted as the executing agency for the US$ 5 million OPEC funds. The works
were implemented according to the same arrangements as the IDA funded works. The Bank
maintained close contact with Danida, the parallel financing agency, including undertaking joint
field visits. There was less contact with the other parallel financier. USAID withdrew financing
of DFR staff training (US$ 1.0 million) in 1993, due to funding constraints.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
22.   The performance of the implementing agency, the Department of Feeder Roads, (DFR) is
considered highly satisfactory in preparing and implementing the project. The staff of DFR are
highly professional and qualified. The Director, Deputy Director, Task Manager and other
senior staff of DFR were committed to the project, efficient in providing data when needed and
interacting with the Bank's missions. DFR made significant effort to standardize bidding and
contract documents; bid evaluation reports and contract supervision monthly reports. At the start
of the project DFR was a new agency with limited capacity however through their efforts DFR
now enjoys a high professional output from its headquarters and regional staff. While the initial
start-up was difficult, thus requiring a one year extension to the credit, once the streamlined
processing of contracts was in place the rate of disbursements increased resulting in timely
implementation of the civil works.
23.   The majority of the 230 IDA funded and 21 OPEC funded sub-projects were not subject
to the Bank's prior review since they were below the prior review limit of US$ 0.5 million. Of



- 10-
the US$ 46.5 million committed on 230 contracts covering 3,026 km, US$ 14.6 million on 18
contracts covering 559 km were subject to the Bank's prior review of the procurement process
i.e. 30 percent of the value of the civil works component (The original Development Credit
Agreement allowed for the civil works of US$ 45.5 million to be procured as follows: ICB
US$ 38.5 million and NCB US$ 7 million. This was amended December 5, 1993 to US$ 20.5
million and US$ 25 million respectively and again amended February 7, 1996 to US$ 12
million and US$ 33.5 million respectively).
24.   The monitoring of the financial aspects of the project was facilitated by the financing of a
disbursements officer and project accountant who, operating within the Accounting and
Management Information Services Unit (AMISU) of the Ministry of Roads and Transport, were
responsible for all the accounting aspects of the project. The relevant staff produced high quality
reports on a quarterly basis in a-timely manner and adjusted them as needed by the Bank team
and allowed for an efficient manner to monitor the project.
25.   The performance of the Borrower, in particular the parent ministry, the Ministry of
Roads and Transport (formerly the Ministry of Roads and Highways) and of the Ministry of
Finance, is .considered unsatisfactory in that they did not honor their agreements related to the
financial covenant covering routine and routine maintenance funding as agreed in the
Development Credit Agreement.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.   The project's major objectives, as defined in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report of
November 19, 1991 were achieved and the outcome is judged satisfactory. Results from the
final socio-economic impact studies are incorporated in this report.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
27.   The Department of Feeder Roads has put in place the Maintenance Performance
Budgeting System for implementation of the maintenance program. This now covers most
regions and has shown good results. The recent condition survey also indicated 50% of the 9,000
km "maintainable" rural road network to be in "good" condition which is a promising sign. In
1998 the objective of fully funding maintenance is being achieved.
28.   Based on the findings of a decentralization pilot undertaken in six districts in the Eastern
Region the Department of Feeder Roads is now deconcentrating its activities to a total of ten
districts including the transfer of funds, supervision responsibility, personnel and some
equipment. The Government had made the decision to pursue further IDA funding of
rehabilitation of existing feeder roads (US$ 6.7 million) through the IDA funded Village
Infrastructure Project (VIP), which was made effective on February 4, 1998 and officially
launched on November 25, 1998. The Department of Feeder Roads, is represented on the
coordinating committee, and will implement the rural transport component of the project.
29.  It is proposed to assist GOG in a review of the feeder roads sector within the context of
the Rural Travel and Transport Program (RTTP) of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
Program (SSATP). The implementation of the NFRRMP highlighted a number of issues that



- 11 -
should be addressed before contemplating a follow-up operation. This includes the necessity to:
(i) institutionalize responsibilities in the framework of decentralization, (ii) revisit technical
standards particularly in light of the consistently low traffic volumes, and (iii) gain a better
understanding of the restrictions in the use of intermediate means of transport (IMT).
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Funding of maintenance
30.   The key lesson leamed is the importance for the Govemment to have a clear strategy on
maintenance funding, and to have demonstrated implementation of the strategy by adequate
release of required funds. While the Road Fund has been restructured in order to address the
problem and the Road Fund Board inaugurated in January 1997, unless there is consistent high
level commitment, there is still no guarantee that such measures will solve the problem of
maintenance funding. The Banks' appraisal team clearly recognized the need for maintenance
funding, as evidenced by the maintenance funding covenant included in the project agreement.
However, there seems little record of whether it was realistic to expect that these targets could be
met from the central govemment budget. Maintenance funds raised and released through the
Road Fund are satisfactory as of 1998, and future operations should reinforce this structure. Of
particular value is the interaction between Road Fund and Parliament in setting the tariffs to be
levied for road maintenance, providing endorsement of the tariff levels.
31.   The lesson here is that the ability to meet the targets for maintenance funding was largely
out of the hands of the implementing agency, the Department of Feeder Roads. While the
Department of Feeder Roads put forward its budget for maintenance funds and this was often'
included in the budget, the actual releases fell short. The parent Ministry of Roads and
Highways was receiving significant funds from the Ministry of Finance but gave priority to the
large capital intensive works of its Ghana Highway Authority. Since the Ministry of Finance was
already dedicating so much of its budget to the road sector, which also continuously overran its
budget, the Ministry was not prepared to give additional money to the sector. But it should have
been ensured that the funds that were released went to maintenance first. The Road Fund also
had sufficient funds to cover the maintenance needs but the funds were released for capital
works as priority over covering maintenance needs.
Pace of Decentralization and extent of Stakeholder participation
32.  A lesson learned is that, while the roads selected for rehabilitation under this project were
confirmed with the District Assemblies which are democratically elected, an earlier and more
direct involvement of affected communities in the decision making would have been more
meaningful. The Department of Feeder Roads recognizes the problem of centralized
implementation and has undertaken a pilot decentralization project in the Eastern Region. The
Government, in pursuit of its decentralization policy, has decided to implement further
rehabilitation on feeder roads through the IDA funded Village Infrastructure Project through the
local District Assemblies. More consistent use of the existing regional capacity of the
Departnent of Feeder Roads for implementation purposes would have been advantageous.



- 12-
Appropriate design standards
33.   A lesson learned is the need to address the issue of high design standards and the
resulting problem of over-investment. The Government reduced its design standards from II m
to 7.3 m formation width and an aide-memoire on project preparation indicates even the 7.3 m
"would appear excessive in view of the modest traffic volumes on the project roads". The high
design standards, which called for full rehabilitation, continued under the project with DFR
specifying a minimum width of 6 m although in practice most roads were much wider than this.
For the "regravelling" the Bank eventually requested that US$ 25,000/km not be exceeded.
Danida funded more extensive spot rehabilitation on thinly trafficked roads, mainly in the North.
34.   DFR cites political pressure for higher standards and the general sentiment of road users
at a mid-term review workshop was to maintain existing standards. This view seems to be
prevalent throughout the road sector - it seems that the decision makers would rather undertake
fewer km to higher standard than spread the funding further. Even when presented with the fact
that donor agencies will not fund projects with ERR less than 15%, the decision makers will not
reduce the standard to make the roads viable - this even in the light of their desire to supply
marginal areas of the country which would not meet this cut-off.
35.   Any future Bank funding to a project should be dependent on a solution of the design
standards being met and some strategy for the wider use of spot-rehabilitation as opposed to full
rehabilitation. DFR remains committed to full rehabilitation as opposed to spot rehabilitation
and is of the opinion that the standard road "width of 6 and 7 meters is not considered as an over
design, and past experience on safety supports DFR's road width standards". Nevertheless, it has
expressed interest in pursuing this matter further.
Method of Economic Evaluation
36.   The economic evaluation of low volume rural roads is a subject of ongoing debate as
many of the benefits cannot be easily quantified. Furthermore, time savings associated with
improved roads are difficult to evaluate and assumptions about increases in agriculture
production due to freed-up time, esp. of women, are also difficult to substantiate. A producer
surplus methodology was used and the project was implemented in areas of high and medium
agricultural potential. Evaluation had, however, to rely on secondary data which may have been
inaccurate and tended to give unrealistically high figures of benefits. This allowed for the
justification of high cost investments. Danida consultants used a consumer surplus method as an
alternative. Both Danida and USAID indicate the need for traffic surveys in prioritizing roads to
be rehabilitated. However, to prevent over-investment, some simple cutoff such as, for example,
minimum 50 ADT and maximum US$ 6,000/km is suggested (some roads with 20 vpd and unit
cost of US$ 25,000 per km were being undertaken).
Promotion of labor-based construction
37.   A lesson learned is that labor-based construction should be pursued. The work done by
the labor-based contractors is of high standard; the labor-based work methods encourage
adoption of a narrower roadway which is otherwise a difficult political aspect to address in
Ghana; and the labor-based work method is cost effective - the average cost/km for rehabilitation



- 13 -
for IDA funded equipment-based work is US$ 16,778, for USAID funded labor-based work is
US$15,789, and Danida (117 contracts) funded labor-based work is about US$1 1,000. This
IDA credit did not fund labor-based construction due to the practices in Ghana of procuring
contracts for such works through set rates with construction methods specified, rather than
through open bidding. DFR has indicated that it is preparing a strategy for moving the labor-
based contractors into the competitive market.
38.   The key lessons learned under this project provide valuable guidance, both for future
restructuring and operation of the DFR, and for the design of donor assistance to the feeder roads
sub-sector in Ghana.



- 14-
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro Policies                 O            E             O              0
Sector Policies                O            E             0             0
Financial Objectives           O            O             E              0
Institutional Development      O            0             E              0
Physical Objectives           01E 0                       0              E
Poverty Reduction              0            E             El Ol
Gender Issues                  E            E             E              0
Other Social Objectives        0            E             E              E
Environmental Objectives       E            O             E              0
Public Sector Management       E            E             E              0
Private Sector Development     O            E             E              0
B. Project Sustainability           Likely          Unlikel        Uncertain
l              E                0
Highly
C. Bank Performance               Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                      E               0              E
Preparation Assistance              E               0               E
Appraisal                           El              0               E
Supervision                        E               0               E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance           Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                         El              0              El
Implementation                      0               E               E
Covenant Compliance                 E               E               0
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      Satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
O            0            El             El



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                    Year of    Status
Preceding operations
1. Highway Engineering Credit             N/A                       1970  Completed
2. First Highway Project To rehabilitation 345 miles of trunk roads  1974  Completed
3. Second Highway     To institution building Ghana Highway Authority    1976  Completed
Project             and encourage development of a domestic
construction industry.
4. Third Highway Project To relieve, on an emergency basis, the most  1980  Completed
(Emergency Maintenance) pressing constraints affecting road maintenance
trucking operations. To import urgently
needed spare parts, equipment, tools, tires,
bitumen and lubricants.
5. Railway Rehabilitation To improve managerial efficiency by instituting  1981  Completed
Project             modem methods of operations, maintenance
and financial management; and to provide
improved equipment to enable Ghana Railway
Corporation to function as a viable transport
enterprise.
6. Road Rehabilitation and To strengthen road agencies, revitalize road  1985  Completed
Maintenance Project  maintenance, and upgrade transport planning
and coordination.
7. Port Rehabilitation    To rehabilitate Tema and Takoradi Port    1986  Completed
Project             facilities; and to help strengthen and reorganize
port management and port institutions in Ghana.
8. Cocoa Rehabilitation   To increase production and export of cocoa;  1987  Completed
Project             increase incomes of the cocoa farmers; strengthen
the cocoa support services for sustained long-term
development of the industry; reduce the financial
burden on the Govemment by removing subsidies
inputs and privatizing the marketing of such inputs;
and improve the road infrastructure in the cocoa
areas primarily to enhance the efficient marketing
of inputs and outputs.
9. First Transport     (a) to remove physical bottlenecks to the expansion   1988  Completed
Rehabilitation Project  of exports, farm production and labor mobility
through better maintenance and further
rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure; (b) to
raise the efficiency of the transport sector through
(i) promotion of market-oriented policies, (ii)
increased involvement of the private sector, (iii)
strengthening of transport institutions, and (iv)
improving productivity; (c) to facilitate rural
transport by promoting appropriate low-cost
technology; and (d) to reduce transportation costs
for both goods and passengers.
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                   Year of    Status



-16-
approval
10. Second Transport   To continue to remove physical constraints in   1990  Completed
Rehabilitation Project transport infrastructure, reduce transport costs for
goods and passengers, and support exports, farm
production, and the mobility of people. It was also
to help alleviate rural poverty in one of the poorest
areas of Ghana - the Northem Region.
Following operations
1. Urban Transport     To undertake road rehabilitation; traffic       1993   Under
Project              management improvements; rehabilitation of lorry      supervision
parks and bus terminals; non-motorized transport
facilities; and institutional strengthening of central
and local government agencies.
2. Highway Sector       To reduce vehicle operating cost through       1996  Under
Investment Credit    maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of     supervision
the highest priority sections of the road network;
developing and implementing cost recovery
policies; building and utilizing indigenous capacity
in the public and private sectors; and improving
financial management and control, thus supporting
Govemment in reducing poverty and improving
access to social services and markets.
3. Village Infrastructure  To support poverty alleviation efforts through  1997  Under
Project              small investments and grants targeted at small        supervision
resource-poor communities for development of
social and economic. infrastructure at the village
level



- 17 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle               Date Planned      latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                             Jan-31-90
Preparation                                                           Nov-05-90
Pre-appraisal                                         Jan-91           Jan-15-91
Appraisal                                             Jun-91           Jun-14-91
Negotiations                                          Oct-91           Oct-28-91
Board presentation                                    Jan-92           Dec-19-91
Signing                                                               Feb-07-92
Effectiveness                                        Apr-92            Jul-22-92
Project completion                                  Dec-31-96          Dec-31-97
Credit closing                                      Jun-30-97          Jun-30-98
Note: Initially the project identification mission took place in June/July 1976; pre-appraisal in
November 1977 and appraisal in January 1978. After the post-appraisal mission in April 1979, it was
decided to postpone this project until progress improved under the on-going TRP-1 and TRP-2 projects.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95   FY96   FY97  FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate      0.5   12.0   26.9   41.2    51.6    55.0
Actual                  0.0    2.6    7.2    13.5    30.2    45.2   54.8    56.3
Actual as % of
Estimate                0%   21.7%  26.8%  32.8%   58.5%   82.2%  99.6%  102.3% *
Date of Final
Disbursement                                                                  11/16/98
* Note: SDR Appraisal Estimate equaled SDR 40.5 million, however only SDR 39.3 million
were disbursed, hence SDR 1.2 million are undisbursed and have been canceled



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in    l
SAR/President's Report                    Estimated                Actual
1. Rehabilitation                         2,500 km               2,963 km
2. Regravelling                            2,850 km               2,474 km
3. Construction of culverts                 5,000                  3,026
4. Spot Improvements                       720 km                 1,413 km
5. Establish new road area office for   20 (by 7/1/92)
maintenance activities
6. Training of Foremen for the                80                    25 *
Supervision of district road
maintenance activities
7. Mid-year Review                    December 31, 1998         June 12, 1996
Note: SAR target includes allfinanciers. For breakdown see para. 6, Table 1.1 of this ICR.
* As of March 1996 Mid-year review report
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Key operating indicators in                  Estimated              Actual
SAR/President's Report                        in SAR
Routine and Recurrent Maintenance Funds    US$ 1.87m/CY1993        US$ 0.46m
per year                                  US$ 2.75m/CY1994         US$ 0.56 m
US$ 3.61m/CY1995         US$ 0.71 m
US$ 4.48m/CY1996         US$ 2.06m
US$ 5.56m/CY1997*       US$ 1.37m**
* Funding continued under the Highway Sector Investment Project.
**.As of third quarter ofFY97



- 19-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Studies             Purpose as Defined at           Status       Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Decentralization  To develop the institutional, financial and  Completed  DFR has deconcentrated
study in 6      human resource capabilities of the pilot          financial, technical
selected districts  District Assemblies to take over as a first  implementation and
(IDA)           step the routine road maintenance                 supervision of
functions of the DFR towards the ultimate        maintenance works under
total transfer of functions to the District      the MPBS to these 6
Assembly System.                                 District Assemblies
Engineering and  To develop designs and bidding       Completed  Rehabilitation and
design studies    documents for rehabilitation and                regravelling works were
(IDA)           regravelling works to be undertaken under        implemented based on the
the project                                      designs
Organization    To assess the institutional needs of the  Completed  DFR has had difficulty in
and             Department of Feeder Roads and define    April 1994  recruiting further staff
Management      options which would allow for better              defined in the study due to
Study (Japanese  delivery of services                             the current civil service
Grant)                                                            limits on recruitment
Local           To assess the shortcomings of the local    Completed  Arising from the findings
Construction    construction industry and define options    June 1994  of the study, training
Industry        for improvements                                  workshops and seminars
Assessment and                                                    have been addressing the
Development                                                       issue of the need for
Study (Japanese                                                  training particularly in
Grant)                                                            construction management,
accounting, cost control
and equipment
maintenance practices.
Socio-Economic  To monitor and evaluate (a) the       Completed  The results of the studies
Impact studies   improvement obtained in the                      were used to evaluate the
(IDA)           transportation of agricultural produce and       impact of the works and
agriculture inputs to and from farms or          will have an influence
villages and nearby markets and the              further donor funding of
associated increasing production of food         the sector.
and cash crops; and (b) the improvement
obtained in the mobility and economic
opportunity for the rural poor.
Baseline Study   To develop baseline data so that the  Completed  Used as a basis for
on the          impact of selected rehabilitated feeder           calculating socio
Rehabilitation of roads on non-traditional export crops           economic rate of return to
Feeder Roads    could be measured and evaluated.                  the investment made
(USAID)                                                           under the project.



- 20 -
Studies            Purpose as Defined at           Status       Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Follow-up study  To calculate the socio-economic rate of    Completed  The results of the studies
on the impact of  return to the investments made in the         are being used to evaluate
rehabilitating    rehabilitation of the road.                   the impact of the works
feeder roads.                                                   and will have an influence
(USAID)                                                         further donor funding of
the sector.
Maintenance     To develop a planning and operational  Completed  An efficient and cost
Performance     system for implementation of                     effective system is now in
Budgeting Study  maintenance.                                   use for planning and
(Danida)                                                        budgeting and
implementing DFR
activities on the
maintainable network.



-21 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Estimate    Actual      Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual   Actual
Project Components          SAR        Total       IDA       Danida    USAID   Japanese   OPEC
Grant
UsS         Uss        UsS        UsS        USS       USS       USS
Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Program
I. Feeder Road Rehabilitation   51,400,000   48,478,786 25,097,707   7,593,496  11,292,152        4,495,432
2. Feeder Road Regravelling     26,000,000    21,500,473 19,752,061       0   1,748,413                   0
3. Culverts/Spot Improvements    6,200,000    5,084,996        0   3,073,171   2,011,825                  0
4. Maintenance/                  4,700,000    6,032,840 3,621,295   2,411,545        0                    0
Workshop Equipment
5. Design and Supervision        2,900,000    3,826,873 3,112,576         0          0   714,297          0
Subtotal Rehab. & Mtce. Program   91,200,000    84,923,969 51,583,639  13,078,211 15,052,389   714,297  4,495,432
Institutional Support Program
1. Management Line Positions     1,300,000    4,902,020   975,678   3,926,342        0                    0
2. Technical Line Positions      1,800,000    3,195,099  347,552   2,292,683         0   554,864          0
3. United Nations Volunteers       200,000      107,529   107,529         0          0                    0
4. Studies                         900,000      924,601   486,625         0          0   437,976          0
5. Training                      1,500,000    1,157,895   656,919    500,976         0                    0
6. ConstructionIndustry Support    5,100,000  1,209,039        0    963,902          0   245,137          0
7. Rual Mobility and             2,400,000           0         0          0          0                    0
Environment
8. DFR Decentralization Support   1,600,000     328,939   328,939          0          0                   0
Subtotal lnst. Support Program  14,800,000    11,825,121  2,903,243   7,683,902      0  1,237,976         0
Government of Ghana              8,400,000    5,800,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST             106,000,000 102,549,090-s 54,486,881  20,762,114 15,052,389  1,952,274 4,495,432
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                               SAR Estimate                  Actual
(US$ million)             (US$ million)
IDA                                                              55.0                  54.5
Danida                                                           15.0                  20.8a'
Government of Ghana (Road Fund & Budget)                          8.4                   5.8
USAID                                                            21.0                  15.1
Japanese Grant Fund                                                1.6                  IO'
OPEC                                                              5.0                   4.5
TOTAL                                    106.0                102.7Y
i Danida funds were increased to US$ 20.8 million
b/ The total amount of the Japanese Grant was Yen 221.4 million. 7he actual disbursements reflect the exchange
rate gains.
Difference in numbers is due to rounding
Source: AAiSU accounting data November 17,1998



- 22 -
Table 9: Socio-Economic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Studies - Overview Table for Sampled Roads
Road name           Road    Length    Index          Comp.  Population   Pop/  Contract Contract  Cost/Ian  Cost/bene-         Trp cost        ADT    Ag. Production  ERR (%)
District    (km)                 Year                  km      (cm)    (S'000)   (S'000)  ficlary (S)      (c/ton/kmn)                (Mt/tons)
A   B                                                                                 A    B   A  B   A    B    AB
Ejura-Kyenkyenkura      Mampong       10       1     3      1994         3,287     346       378        395        42         120     888   1,204   1   74  1,704    1,979   34  16
Worasu-Sekruwa          Mampong        3       1     3      1996         1,500     536        35         23        13          15             482   7   13  1,866    2,489 n/a   75
Agona-Amoaka            Mampong       16      3      3      1996         3,247     204       213        137         9         92   3,350   1,458  20   20 n/a          1,578 n/a   29
Bepoase-Mantwewose      Mampong        4      0      3      1996         1,300     342        74         48        13         37   3,350   1,316   2   14 n/a            390 n/a   75
Mampongten-Ahodwo       Mampong        7       1     3      1995         4,200     571       112         92        13         22   1,250      896  20  118 n/a         2,688 n/a   75
Bonsu-Dotobaa-          Techiman       9       3     3      1996         2,834     296       165        106        12         38   3,200      568   8   23 n/a         4,960   2X  75
Agyeikrom
Ayerede-Donkronkwanta  Techiman        7      0      3      1996         1,623     246       246        159        24         98   3,102   3,000   3    7  1,415    2,005   75  36
Brahoho-Nsugum          Techiman      19      0      3      1995         2,656     139       712        460        24        209   4,291      400   0   10  2,244    1,583   39  11
Nkwaben-Bredi           Techiman       10      1     3      1995         2,738     288       366        300        32         110   2,031     652  13   14  1,925    1,227   40  39
Sessiman-Nyinase        Techiman      14      0      3      1995         1,549     108       533        344        24        222   2,353   1,IIi   0    5   800    1,420   25  24
Nkonsia-Mframaso        Techiman       3       1     3      1995         2,018     965        19         17         8           5   2,710   1,063   3    6 n/a         8,204    14  75
Nwoase-Nchiraa          Techiman       11      1      3     1995         3,159     337        91         74         7          24   3,270   1,140  20   26 n/a        10,374   21  75
Attebubu-Seneso         Techiman      32      0       3     1995         3,906     124       474        360        11          92   2,427   1,738   1   15  3,524    3,968   68  62
Kintampo-Suamire        Techiman       18     2       3     1994         2,717     154       186        195        11          72   3,000   1,346  11   37  3,803    2,267   75  75
Akrofoum-Faaman         Techiman       8 X            3     1996         4,715     528       181        117        24          38   2,710   3,000   7   25 n/a         2,645   51  75
Techiman-Traa           Techiman       5       1      3     1995         2,500     490        41         34         7          13   2,710   2,941   2   19 n/a         4,083   32  75
Lekpongunor-Old Ningo   Ada            14      1      2     1995         2,608      91       279        229        17          88   I,138     641  36  293   873    1,546   51  10
Ada Foah-Totope         Ada           12       1      3     1996         4,468     382       112         72         6          16   1,138     720  39  367  1,395    2,500   75  26
Dabala-Agordome         Keta           5      2       3     1996           715     154       134         87        19         122     872     III  79   28   271         889   75  33
Dalive-Amerdome         Keta           1      _      3      1996         3,900     179       308        198        19         105   3,486     500  10   12   467         859   25  3 6
Adaklu Waya-Anfoe       Ho             3      2       3     1994         1,258     449        48         51        38         42      326     347   5   11   710    3,014   I3  21
Sanfi-Brosanko          Bkwai          4      2       I     1995           400     108        24         12         3         29                     2    3               15   65   0
Sanfi-Dwenase           Bkwai          4      2      3      1995         2,500     625        26         13         3           5                    5   10            2,500   30  78
Manso Akropong-         Bkwai          7       3     3      1996         2,004     278        96         46         6         23                     4   41              800   25  60
Adwuman                                                               I                                      _         _
Fomena-Ayaase           Bkwai          3      2      2      1996         2,434     839        40         19         7           8                    8   25            1,458   27  24
Kumpese- Domi Kaniago  Bkwai           I      2      3      1996         5,578     495       150         72         6          13                   35   841           2,230   35 17
Abodom-Ankaase-Dotom   Bekwai         23      2       3     1997         7,938     351       410        196         9         25                    12   35            3,176   30   0
Wuruyie Jn-Kotwa        Bekwai         1 I           3      1997         4,088     380       231                   10          57                    5   60            1,636   46  36
Menang In-Menang        Bekwai        10      2      3      1997         4,578     474       208         99        10         22                    30   28            1,832   18  37
Dotom                                I__ ___ _ _ _ _I_ _ _
Andoe-Adadientem        Cape Coast    7        1      3     1995         6,744   1,034        35         17         3           2            -      16   68            4,047   44  57
Nyamedom-Asomdwee    Cape Coast    7          2       3     1996         3,824     575        57         27         4           7            -      21   44            1,530   45  98



-23 -
Table 9: Socio-Economic Impact_Monitoring and Evaluation Studies - Overview Table for Sampled Roads
Road namne            Road    Length    Index           Camp.  Population   Pop/  Contractl Contract  Cost/Ikn  Cost/bene-            Trp cost        ADT    IAg. ProutinERR (%)
___________________ District    (kat)                   Year   ______ km               (cm)  I   'OOt))   (S'OO)  "lClary (5)        (c/ton/lai)_                (Mt/tons)
A   B                                                                                      A    B   A  B   A    B   A  B
Nyaznedom-Mensuakwa    Cape Coast        5       2      3      1996          3,063      589        45         2 1         4           7                     1 7   45            1,836   29  68
Adadientem-Edubiase      Cape Coast    22        I      3   11995            9,486     424        118         57          3           6                     241  501            5,691    II1  42
Amanfupong-Aperade       Cape Coast    12        1      3      1996          2,414      196       297        142         12           6                      0   47               966    41   9
Dominase In-Dominase    Cape Coast    3          I      3      1996          2,420     793         16          8          3           3                     1 0   67              968    85 172
Fanti Nyankomasi-        Cape Coast      2       1      3      1996          1,759   4,224         14          7          4           0                      2    IS5             901  2221 83
Obosaomadzi
Fosuasa-Arnandor         Cape Coast    6         I      3      1996          4,129     688        145         69         12           2                     60    44            1,652    77  37
Jamara-To-wobase-        Cape Coast   I11        2      3      1996          3,642     345        269        129         12          35                      It  37   -          ,456    57   -
Abadam                                                        __                                          __                                         _
Asikumasi-Abuakwa        Cape Coast    4         I      3      1996          2,342      564       106         5 I        1 2         22                     20    17   -        1,404    44,.
Efutu-Ankaasc            Cape Coast    12        2      3      1996          4,005      323       151         72         38          18                     20   37             1,602    38 0
Ankaase-Jabour           Cape Coast   I11        2      3      1996          5,384      489       134         64          6           1 2                   1 2   22   -        2,154    22   10
Odomasi-Abakrampa        Cape Coast    6         2      3      1996          4,961      755        78         38          6           8                     10    1 3           2,976    67  IS5
Papadjan Jn-Tsetsckasum   Cape Coast    3        I      3      1996            501      147        42         20          6          40                     20     9              300    2 1 0
Kenyasi No. I1-Kwahu     Sunyani        1 5      l      3      1996            571       38       236         113         8          20                     1 0    II   -         475    1 8   0
Nyamebekyere No.2 -No.1I Sunyani         3       1      3      1996            120       46        41         20          8          34    -                       3   -1,164             II 
Sankore-Bepoase          Sunyami         8       0      3      1996            216       28       184         88         1 2        408              -       4    1 4   -576    22   -3
Buokrukuwa-Akomoamna   Sunyani           4       1      3      1997            120       29        68         33          8         272                      2    1 7   -80    1 9   0
Duayaw Nkwanta-Bomaa  Sunyani            1 5     2      3       1997         6,800      453       100          48         3            7                    1 5    82   -g8    19 726
Susanho-Santase          Sunyani         6       2      3      1997          1,266      206        96         46          8          36                    n/a    93            2,920    35   0
Bechem-Mensin            Sunyani         5       1      3      1997            715      1431      121         58         1 2        169                      2    1 2   -357 n/a    441
Akpatu Mempeasem-        Hohoe           4       0      3      1997          3,920    1,120       138         8 1        23          2 1   6,000   3,979   0    51 5,424    8,000    16 19
Todzi                                                                                                                        ______9
Kunda-Adumadum           Hoboe           2       1      3      1998          1,010      481       123         72         35          72   3,000   3,579   2   3  1,970    2,681    20  94
EhimnankyeneJin-         Hohoe           7       2      3      1998          2,009      287       164         96         14          48   5,000   4,295   2        6  5,031    7,350    38 17
Ehiamnankyene             __ _ _ __ _ _ _                                                                                    _ _ _ _               _ _ _6
Bodada-Kute              Hohoe          16       0      3      1998          7,127      445       44-4       261         16          37   8,000   7,159    1   12 20,28    24,588    23 13
__________   ____                                  ___                  ___   ____                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  9
Atonkor Gumnan-          Hohoe          15       2      3      1997          2,498      167       370        218         IS          87   8,000   8,591   9   31  3,586    5,038    321 71
Abotoase                  _____
B3rewaniase-Pusupu       Hohoe          11       0      3      1997          6,1.64     560       372        219         20          36   4,000   3,579   2        71 8,030   13,000    16 13 
Dzolu- New Ayoma         Hohoe           5       0      3      1997          3,305      661       258         152        30          46   3,000   3,579    4   211 5,228    5,949   101  54
QwolIu-Kusale            Tumu            II      1      3      1996          4,642      422       197         116        II          25   8,000   7,159   0        2  6,654    6,897    40 14
9
Tumu-Kassana             Tumu            18      0      2      1996          3,954      216       328         193        11          49  15,000  10,000   0        0  5,157    3,657    16  87



- 24 -
Table 9: Socio-Economic Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Studies - Overview Table for Sampled Roads
Road name           Road    Length    Index         Comp.  Population   Pop/  Contract  Contract  Cost/km  Cost/bene-        Trp cost       ADT    Ag. Production  ERR (%)
District   (km)                  Year                 km      (cm)    (S'000)   (S'000)  fClary (S)    (c/ton/kn)                   (Mt/tons)
A   B                                                                                A I B  AB   A   B   A  B
Jakpa-Chereponi        Yendi          6             3      1996         4,269     712      313        184        31         43   4,000   5,011   0  1   21,40   1,079   32  56
_                             _                                                     _           _                9
Savelugu               Tamale        13      0      3      1997         6,207    477       290        171        13         28   6,000   7,159   2    7 16,42    12,968   21 neg
Nasia-Janga            Tamale        26      2      3      1997         7,175     276     1,916      1,127      43         157   8,000   7,159   5   16 24,18    17,256   20 neg
Sawaba-Abrumasi        Tamale         52      1     2      1998         4,852      94     2,339      1,376      27         284  55,000  50,112   1    1 26,68    37,279   1 8  59
Sankpala-Wanbong       Tamale         9      0      3      1996         2,220     247      212        125        14         56   4,500   5,011   0    3  5,661    4,484   14  41
Labarga-Tugu           Tamale         8 X           3      1996         1,364     182      171        101        13         74   6,000   3,579   1    5  2,304    2,332   17  53
Tali-Kuli              Tamale        30       1     3      1996         2,035      68      647        381        13        187  25,000  14,318   2   12  4,647    4,260   13 _I
Gbeini-Yapala          Yendi          4       _     3      1997         2,766     675      547        322        79        116   6,000   3,579   0    3  1,856    3,564   17  50
Sabongida-Kabeso       Yendi          10      1     3      1996         2,410     254      333        196        21         46  11,000   7,159   1    3  4,344    3,027   44  99
Ekumdipe-Kojobonipe    Yendi          4       I     3      1996         2,168     619      322        190        54         51  14,500  10,738   2    5  1,326    3,120   58  GI
Banda-Wiae             Yendi          7       I     3      1996         2,223     305      250        147        20         66  20,000  10,738   2    6  3,461    3,646   15 li
Kabonwula-Bladjae      Yendi          8       1     2      1996         1,755     219       135        79        10         45  10,000   7,159   I    5  2,409    3,054   19 13
______               ________  __________________ _   ______________                                                               __________ 
Wulensi-Damanko        Yendi          8       I     2      1998         4,796     600      412        242        30          I  10,000   7,159  10   13 12,12       4,421 n/a   64
Bimbilla-Chichagi       Yendi         19      I     3      1997         4,160     216      547        322        17         77  14,000  10,738   0    2  7,089    3,969   14  52
Kayilo-Pindaa          Bolgatanga    6        1     3      1994         3,735     667       139        82        15         IS   9,000   3,579   1    2  1,030        417   43 neg
Sitigu-Zokko           Bolgatanga    15       I     3      1994        12,633     848      225        133         9          10  12,000   7,159   3    9  3,244    3,634   50  55
average of the 74 road                10      1     3                   3,355     451      263        159        16         62   4,332   3,147  10   32  2,953    4,164   36  54
links                   __________
Accessibility Index: 0: no access, 1: minimum access, 2: reliable access, 3: all weather access
A: before rehabilitation, B: after rehabilitation -- Data as per consultants'reports
7he consultants covering Bkwai, Cape Coast, and Sunyani road districts used transport cost per passenger and did not report the pre-rehabilitation agriculture output in
their summary report



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Covenant                 Fulfillment           Description of Covenant               Comment
Text        Class    Status        Date
Reference                       Original Revised
Section 3.01    03        C     Continuous         Without any limitation or restriction under The submitted FY97 budget
(i) (a)                                            the Development Agreement, the        for amounts to Cedis 3.5
Borrower shall: ensure that sufficient  billion (US$ 1.75 million)
annual budgetary allocations will be made  Counter part funds for
for its counterpart contribution to the  IDA/GOG financed project
costs of the project amounting to over the  which covers the US$ 1.62
project period to US$ 8.4 million    million estimated
equivalent.                          expenditure for FYI 997.
Section 3.01    03        NC    1993               The Borrower shall ensure that sufficient   The budget allocation is
(i) (b)                          1994              annual budgetary allocations will be made  Cedis 9.0 billion (US$ 4.5
1995              for the current and routine maintenance of  million) for routine
1996              feeder roads in its budget for the 1993-    maintenance compared to
1996 period the equivalent of US$ 1.87    US$ 5.5 million specified in
million in FYI 993, US$ 2.75 million in   the HSIP. The submitted
FYI 994, US$ 3.61 million in FY1995,    budget is adequate however.
and US$ 4.48 million in FYI 996.     Previous budget releases
have not been in
compliance.
Section 3.01    03        C                        Without any limitation or restriction under The annual estimates are
(ii)                                               the Development Agreement, the        submitted in the quarterly
Borrower shall furnish, three months prior  report and the quarterly
to the start of the respective period, the  estimates are assumed equal.
annual and quarterly estimates of the
project expenditures including counterpart
funding by the Borrower.
Section 3.01    03         C     Continuous        Without any limitation or restriction under Funds are released on need
(iii)                                              the Development Agreement, the        basis rather than quarterly
Borrower shall deposit into DFR's    deposit basis to DFR
account before the end of each quarter,    account. Up to now there
starting in FY93, the Borrower's     has not been delay in
contribution to financing of the Project as  payment to contractors.
set forth in the quarterly estimates referred
to above.
Section 3.01    10        CD                       The Borrower shall carry out the Project   Complied with.
(c)                                                in accordance with the implementation
program set forth in Schedule 4.
Section 3.01    09        C                        Schedule 4. Implementation Program    Complied with
I                                                  Overall Coordination. DFR shall prepare
and furnish to the Association quarterly
reports on overall progress of the Project
including status of processing
procurement, commitments made under
the Project, disbursement, progress on
civil works components, local currency
contributions by Road Fund & other
budgetary allocations by the Borrower.
Section 3.01     09        C    12/31/94           Mid-Term Review: A mid-term review    Mid-term review held June
2                                                  shall be carried out by the Borrower and    10-13, 1996.
the Association not later than December
31, 1994.
Section 3.01     10        C                       Part A and B of the Project: DFR shall    Compliedwith
3                                                  select the feeder roads for culverting and
spot improvements in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Association.



-26 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Cont'd .....)
Agreement   Covenant               Fulfillment            Description of Covenant                 Comment
Text        Class    Status        Date
Reference                        Original Revised
Section 3.01     05        C      12/31/92         Part C of the Project: DFR shall appoint    Deputy Director of Planning
4                                                  for its planning division, not later than  appointed on December
December 31, 1992, the Deputy Director of  1993.
Planning.
Section 3.01     05        C      06/30/92         DFR shall, starting from July 1, 1992,  Complied with
5                                                  establish about twenty new road area
offices for maintenance activities.
Section 3.01     05        C                       DFR shall follow the Borrower's        DFR has engaged a
6                                                  decentralization objectives and starting  consultant to study measures
from July 1, 1992, shall, as needed, train    to be taken on
about 80 additional foremen for all    decentralization in Selected
supervision of district road maintenance  six districts. Needed foremen
activities.                            for the six districts are
provided by DFR.
Section 3.02     10        C                       Except as the Association shall otherwise    Complied with
agree, procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03     06         C     12/31/94         The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1994  All procurement documents
incorporate into its guidelines for    and evaluation reports for
engineering design and work execution for  prior review have been
feeder roads environmentally sound     cleared by IDA.
procedures and standards.
Section 4.01     03         C                      The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be  Complied with.
(a)                                                maintained, records and accounts in respect
of the Project.
Section 4.01     03         C                      The Borrower shall: have the records and    Complied with.
(b) (i)                                            accounts referred to in para (a) of this
section including those for the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited.
Section 4.01     03         C                      The Borrower shall furnish to the       FY1997 audit report is
(b) (ii)                                           Association, as soon as possible, but in any  expected to be submitted as
case not later than 6 months after the end of  specified on DCA.
each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such Audit by said Auditors; and
Section 4.01     03         C                      The Borrower shall furnish to the       Complied with.
(b) (iii)                                          Association, such other information as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request;
Section 4.01     03         C                      For all expenditures with respect to which    Complied with.
(c) (i)                                            withdrawals from the credit account were
made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Section 4.01     03         C                      Retain, until at least one year after the  Compliedwith.
(c)(ii)                                            Association has received the audit for the
fiscal year,
Section 4.01     03         C                      Enable the Association's representatives to   Complied with.
(c) (iii)                                          examine such records; and
Section 4.01     03         C                      Ensure that such records and accounts are    Complied with.
(c) (iv)                                           included in the annual audit.
C        = Complied with         CP       = Complied with Partially         CD       = Compliance after Delay



- 27 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1 OD 10.60
Accounting, Financial Reporting,    The audit reports were submitted with minor
and Auditing                    delays.
2 OD 12.20                         Received with minor delays.
Special Accounts
3 OP 12.30                         Received with minor delays.
Statement of Expenditure
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Actual
project cycle       Weeks       US$
Through Appraisal             67.7    101.8
Appraisal -- Board            24.7      54.4
Board -- effectiveness        11.8      23.5
Supervision                   83.3    195.3
Completion                      6       17.0
TOTAL                         193.5    392.0
392.00'



- 28 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating b/
Stage of Project Cycle Month/ Number Days Specialized staff skills Implemen- Development    Types of
Year     of      in     Represented a/  tation Status Objectives    problems
Persons Field
Through Appraisal     06/90     4           PTS, TE, HE, Cons
09/90     1      21  Cons.
10/90     3      3  PTS, TE, HE
01/91     4      10  TE. HE, 2 Cons.
Appraisal through     06/91     5       8  TS, HE, PS, LGS, TE.,
Board approval                              TS, HE, PO
10/91     3      4
Board approval        02/92     3       4  TS. HE, PO              NR           NR       Initial
summary
through effectiveness    06/92  3       5  TS. HE, Cons.            I            I
Supervision 1         12/92     1       8  TS I                                 I
Supervision 2         06/93     1       9  STS                      2            1       Counterpart
Fund
ARPP          08/93                                         2            1       Counterpart
Fund
Supervision 3         11/93     1      20  STS                      2            1       Counterpart
Fund
Supervision 4         03/94     1       8  STS                      2            1       Counterpart
.________________ ____ Fund
Supervision 5         07/94      1      7   STS                     S            S
Supervision 6         03/95      1      14  SME                     U            S       Procurement
ARPP          06/95                                         U            S       Procurement
Supervision 7         12/95     3       11  SME, IE, labor-based    U            S       Procurement
constr. Spec.
Supervision 8         2/96      2       3  EC, PO                                        Partial SPN
Supervision 9         6/96      2       18  SME, IE                 U            S       Procurement
Mid-Term Review
Supervision 10        2/97      3      13  PE, IE, Decentr.Spec.    S            S       Financial
covenants
Supervision 11        12/97     2       4  PE, IE                   S            S       Financial
covenants
Supervision 12        6/98      2       4  PE, IE                   S            S       Financial
covenants
Completion            11/98     3       4  PE, IE, EC               S            S       Financial
covenants
a/ Key to Specialization
PTS = Principal Transport    TE = Transport Engineer           HE = Highway Engineer
Specialist                   PE = Principal Engineer
Cons.= Consultant            PS = Procurement Specialist       LGS = Local Government Specialist
TS = Transport Specialist    STS = Senior Transport Specialist  SIE = Senior Infrastructure Engineer
IE = Infrastructure Engineer  SME = Senior Municipal Engineer    EC = Economist
PE = Principal Engineer                                        PO= Project Officer
b/ Key to Performance Rating
I = Problem Free            2 = Moderate problems              3 = Major Problems
HS = Highly Satisfactory     S = Satisfactory                  U = Unsatisfactory



-29-
APPENDIX A
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation & Maintenance Project (CR 2319-GH)
Implementation and Completion review mission May 18 to June 10, 1998
AIDE MEMOIRE
INTRODUCTION
1.    Snorri Hallgrimsson (Task Team Leader, AFTT2), and Sally Bumingham (Infrastructure
Engineer, AFTT2) carried out an implementation review mission of the above project from May
18 to June 10, 1998. This was the implementation completion mission with the closing of the
credit on June 30, 1998 after a one year extension. All matters related to implementation
progress are on track and no major issues are foreseen. The mission wishes to express its thanks
for all cooperation and courtesies extended by the staff of the Ministry of Roads and Transport,
in particular its Department of Feeder Roads (DFR), and the Accounting and Management
Information Systems Unit (AMISU).
FINANCIAL STATUS
2.    OPEC Loani: The OPEC loan of USD 5 million is fully committed and works are also
scheduled to be completed by the loan closing date of June 30, 1998. USD 4 million is
undisbursed as of March 31, 1998. GOG and IDA will request OPEC to allow a four month
grace period for the payment of invoices for works incurred prior to the closing date. This will
be in line with the IDA credit grace period facility and is expected to allow full disbursement of
the loan.
3.    Retenitioni moniies.   All contracts have a maintenance period of 12 months. Therefore
there are contracts for which the retention due date falls after the October 31, 1998 deadline for
disbursement of funds. There are a total of 63 contracts for which there will be outstanding
retention monies totaling USD 508,374 after October 31, 1998. 50 percent of this amount is on
49 contracts, while the remaining 50 percent is on 14 contracts. It is considered impractical to
require retention bank guarantees for all 63 contracts since some of these are contracts with
small contracting firms. Therefore it was agreed that under the IDA credit, bank guarantees will
be obtained for those 14 contracts with retention > USD 10,000 and retention due date after
October 31, 1998. The cumulative amount involved is USD 257,000. AMISU will verify the
bank guarantees prior to payment. Retention monies will be paid for the remaining 49 contracts
without requiring bank guarantees. Under the OPEC loan, bank guarantees will be obtained
likewise for 2 contracts to allow for the payment of the retention monies. Details attached as
Annex 1.
4.    Disbursementi:     USD 52.7 million (SDR 36.68 million) of the IDA Credit of
USD 55 million (SDR 40.50 million) had been disbursed as of May 27, 1998. USD 5.12 million
is undisbursed (SDR 3.82 million) I(There was a gain of USD 2.82 million due to exchange rate
fluctuation during the implementation of the project). Civil works will be completed by credit
closing of June 30, 1998 and the credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of the four



- 30 -
month grace period to October 31, 1998.
IDA Commitments and Disbursements as of May 27, 1998
Description    Allocation     |Allocation     Disbursed      lUndisbursed
I      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SDR           {USD             SDR            iSDR
(1)            j(2)           1(3)            (4)
Civil work-s         32,950,000      44.746.1001    28.814.427       4.135,572
Equipment             2.500.000       3,395.000T     2.371.422        128,578
Consultants           4.750,000       6.450.500      4.141.191        608.809
PPF                     300moOj        407,4001        277.005         22,995
SA-A                                                 1,079.4891     -1,079,489
SA-P                                                     -987'            987
Total                40.500,000      55,000,000     36,682,546       3,817,453
SDR            Current rate             1.37951
5.    Buidget:     Routine maintenance funding: The FY97 budget allocation was Cedis
9,000 million (US$4.5 m; @IUS$=Cedis 2,000). Cedis 5,365 (USD 2.68 m) was released for
FY 97. Funds for routine maintenance are available from the Road Fund and releases are under
way. The FY98 budget allows Cedis 12.5 billion (USD 5.43 m; ( I USD = Cedis 2,300) for
routine maintenance with monthly releases of Cedis I billion scheduled. During the first quarter,
January -March 1998, there were no releases. In each April 1998 and mid-May 1998 Cedis I
billion was released.
Routine and recurrent maintenance funding, 1995-1998
Allocation      SAR    Budget releases  Achieved  Shortfall Road Fund
Cedis   USD    USD    Cedis   USD         km        USD     Cedis   USD
m    m    m    m    m                              m                m
1995  1,160   1.16          _
1996  3,840   2.50    4.48    3,517   2.06    4,800      0.44      5,867   3.487
1997  9,000   4.50    5.50    5,365   2.68    6,800      3.13      11,014  5.510
1998  12,500  5.43    5.50    2,000   0.87                          6,517  2.833
Notes:
1996 exchange rate (1,550 Cedis = IUS$)
1997 exchange rate (2,000 Cedis = 1US$)
1998 exchange rate (2,300 Cedis = 1US$)
* Budget releases for routine and recurrent only - road fund is inclusive of routine and recurrent
and also covers other maintenance expenditures



-31 -
EQUIPMENT AND SPARES
6.    Compiliers.  Bank gave no objection July 10, 1997 to procurement of computers and
proposed award to Y.P.C (UK) LTD for an amount of USD 179,869. The computers were due
to be delivered by mid-December, 1997 however as of May 28, 1998 the computers had still not
been delivered although they were reported to be at the Accra airport and to be delivered and
installed by end of June 1998.
7.    Equipmenit.  DFR has had limited success on the sale of equipment bought under the
credit to DFRs trained unequipped labor-based contractors. Proceeds of the sales that have taken
place have been returned to the credit. DFR will assign some of the remaining equipment to the
ten DFR district offices where they are implementing their decentralization process.
STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
8.    Computerized Conitract Ma4nagement System.  DFR engaged Tahal Consulting on a
sole-source to develop and implement a contract management system in DFR. The Bank gave
no objection January 23, 1998 to the contract of USD 121,555. DFR will forward copies of the
final output to the Bank.
9.    Decentralization.    DFR is implementing its decentralization policy in 10 districts
after the pilot in 6 districts in the Eastern Region. Staff, equipment and implementation
responsibility for the MPBS program are being transferred to these districts.
10.   Socio-econ7omic impact moniitorinig stidies: Two consultants have submitted draft final
reports with the third due to submit by June 5, 1998. The reports will be finalized by end of
June 1998 and copies sent to the Bank.
11.   GIS:  The work is almost complete and DFR expressed satisfaction with the outcome.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
12.  IDA will prepare a draft of the ICR and forward to Government for comments. DFR to
prepare their comments on the project, guidelines for which were sent to DFR prior to the
mission in fax dated May 7, 1998 (copy of content and guidelines of ICR attached as Annex 3).
The ICR will be published latest December 31, 1998.



- 32-
Distribution:
Dr W. Adote              Director, IERD, Ministry of Finance
Mr. K. Abbey Sam         Chief Director, Ministry of Roads and Transport
Mr. C.D. Antwi           Director Department of Feeder Roads
Mr. A. Twumasi-Boakye    Deputy Director (Planning)
Department of Feeder Roads
Mr. A. Amoah             Consultant, AMISU/MRH
Mr Lars Elle             DANIDA
Mehdi Garadaghipour      OPEC, Assistant Director General, Finance,
OPEC Fund for International Developement
P.O. Box 995-1011 Vienna, Austria
Mr Stuart Tibbs          Department for International Development,
94 Victoria Street, London, SW I E 5JL,
United Kingdom
Ministry of Agriculture, Village Infrastructure Project team
LIST OF PEOPLE MET
Ministry of Roads & Transport
Mr. K. Abbey Sam                Chief Director
Department of Feeder Roads
Mr. C.D. Antwi                  Director
Mr. A. Twumasi-Boakye           Deputy Director (Planning)
Mr. A.T.Essilfie                Deputy Director (Maintenance), Project
Mr Martin hMensa                Deputy Director (Development)
Mr E.N.K. Ashong                Nat.l Coordinator, labour-based works
AMISU
Mr. A. Amoah                    Consultant
Mr Freeman-Megbenu              Consultant
Mr Bruce Smith                  Accountant
DANIDA
Mr. L. Elle                     Counsellor, Royal Danish Embassy, Accra, Ghana
Annex I     Retention monies
Annex 2     Civil works Achievements
Annex 3     Implementation Completion Reports reporting guidelines



- 33 -
Annex 1
Retention monies
IDA funding                            I        i                            I
Contracts with retention due dates after October 31, 1998 and retention amounts > USD 10.000
Due date  Contracts USD                           _
Nov-98        1   33,211 Sodonor Ltd
2   14.842 Frank Walker
Dec-98        3   10,862 Ghamini
4j 18.253 BlaiseNickata
Jan-99.      5  11.914 Somauh Dapaah
Feb-99      6G  22.289 Lidra
Feb-99 _     67  11(096 Lidra
8   11.492 David Walker
9_10.956 Contransimex
Mar-991      10  33.663 Appiah & sons
Jun-99      11  19.886 Plant Pool
12  26.174|Gbewaa                        _     _
13   15.698 Appiah & Sons
_________  14  16.258 Rotek
USD                 256,595
Contracts widt retention due dates after October 31. 1998 and retention amounts < USD 10,000
Nov-98 1___   59,678
Dec-98j 66.711
Jan-99 |_      |  1.894
| Feb-99 l       |46,433ii
Mar-99 _          15.504 
Jun-99         | 61,559 _                            i        i          i
I_______ I      49f 251,779,       50%                   I        I_         I
Contracts with retention due dates after October 31, 1998  _____
__ __      ___  63j  5/08,3741ll                                
Contracts with retention due dates after October 31, 1998 and retention amounts > USE  10,000
OPEC loan funding
Jun-991      21                              I                           I



-34-
Annex 2
Civil Works Achievements
A breakdown of the achievements in km versus the amount targeted at the beginning of the
project is given in the table below. The purpose of the tables is to indicate the overall
achievements of the feeder roads project in implementation of works. The original target of
6,070 km has been exceeded, with 6,850 km having been implemented. In terms of
implementation of rehabilitation/construction works, the DFR has achieved considerable success.
On the maintenance side, approximately 1 0,000 km are under routine and recurrent maintenance.
Achievements by closing date of June 30, 1998 (all contracts underway of completed) vs
Target
(kim)
Target   Achieved Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Achieved
___ _______ SAR     total    IDA     GOG    USAID   DANIDA OPEC
REHABILITATION    2.500    2.963    1.45()    155       665      693        0    119%
REGRAVELLING        2.85()   2,474    1,681    225      198        0      370     87%
SPOT REHAB.           720    1.413       0        0     714      699        0    196%
|Total1  6,()070 |  6.85()   3.1311   380(   1.577    1.392               370    113%/
Note: Target for rehabilitation: 2.500 knm of which 1.500 km through capital intensive under IDA;
GOG and OPEC financing; 1.000 km through labor-based USAID and DANIDA financing
(USD million)
Target   Achieved Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Achieved
|__________ SAR          total    IDA     GOG    USAID   DANIDA OPEC    %
REHABILITATION         51      50       28       3        I        9        0     97%
REGRAVELLING           26      33       23       3        2        0        5    126%
SPOT REHAB.           6.2       6        0        0       3        3        0     94%
Total   X             84       89       51       6       15       12       5    1  06 %



- 35 -
Annex 3
Implementation Completion Reports reporting guidelines
Content of Implementation Completion Reports
1. An implementation completion report (ICR) consists of (a) an introductory section, (b) main
body, (c) statistical tables, and (d) appendixes.
2. The introductory section consists of a cover page; an inside page listing relevant currency
equivalents, weights and measures, and abbreviations; a table of contents; and a preface
describing the project and its status. It also includes a two- to three-page summary of the project
implementation experience and results, plans for future operation and sustainability, and key
lessons learned. Annex Al provides sample formats for the introductory part of the ICR.
3. The body of the ICR consists of (a) performance judgments and (b) analyses of major factors
underlying the judgments. It normally does not exceed eight single-spaced pages or, for more
complex projects, ten pages. (Chapter II of GP 13.55 gives guidance for making the judgments
and analyses for all operations; Chapter III provides assistance for evaluating the achievement of
significant social, environmental, and private sector development objectives; and Chapter IV
gives further guidance applicable only to adjustment loans.)
4. Statistical tables follow the main body of the ICR. (Models for them appear in Annex B to BP
13.55.)
5. The performance judgments and analyses cover the following specific aspects:
(a) Project Objectives. A concise statement and evaluation of the project's major objectives as
presented in the Staff Appraisal Report or President's Report (for adjustment loans), including
any changes made during implementation. The evaluation assesses the clarity of the objectives,
their realism, and whether they were important for the country/sector and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. Also evaluated are how demanding the project was for the
borrower/implementing agency, how complex and risky, and how responsive to changes in
borrower circumstances and priorities.
(b) Achievement of Project Objectives. An assessment of the project's success (substantial,
partial, negligible) in achieving its major objectives--e.g., macroeconomic and sector policy
improvements, financial objectives, institutional development, physical objectives, poverty
reduction and other social objectives, environmental objectives, and public sector management
and private sector development.
(c) Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project. An analysis of the factors
that affected project implementation. The factors are divided into those not generally subject to
government control, those subject to government control, and those subject to the implementing
agencies' control. (In this context, any critical mention of the performance of consultants,
contractors, and suppliers is governed by the rules set out in Annex C.)



- 36 -
(d) Project Sustainability. An assessment of the probability (likely, unlikely, uncertain) that the
project will maintain the achievements generated in relation to its major objectives, or the
achievements expected in the operational plan. (See Annex D for a more detailed definition of
sustainability.)
(e) Bank Performance. An assessment of the Bank's performance (highly satisfactory,
satisfactory, deficient) in project identification, preparation assistance, appraisal, and
supervision.
(f) Borrower Performance. An assessment of the performance of the borrower and implementing
agencies (highly satisfactory, satisfactory, deficient) in preparing, implementing, and, where
relevant, operating the project.
(g) Assessment of Outcome. A rating of outcome (highly satisfactory, satisfactory,
unsatisfactory, or highly unsatisfactory) based primarily on how well the project achieved its
objectives and how sustainable it is likely to be (see Annex D).
(h) Future Operation. A description and assessment of the plan for the project's future operation,
including understandings with the borrower on the measures to maximize the project benefits,
the indicators for monitoring and evaluating future operations, and the Bank's follow-up actions.
(i) Key Lessons Learned. A discussion of the most significant positive and negative lessons
learned from the project's implementation, showing how they are reflected in the arrangements
for its future operations. This section also identifies those lessons most relevant to similar
ongoing and future projects in the sector/sub-sector or the country.
6. The appendixes to the ICR consist of (a) the mission's aide-memoire; (b) the borrower's
contribution to the ICR (see footnote 6 of BP 13.55); (c) the co-financiers' contribution, if
available; (d) miscellaneous other appendixes covering details supporting the main text; and (e) a
map.



- 37 -
Borrower's Responsibility in ICR Preparation
The supervision mission staff and implementing agencies should discuss the borrower's ICR
responsibilities during the project implementation phase, reviewing them in detail during
missions in the year before the ICR is due. The borrower should be encouraged to assign the task
of organizing and overseeing completion reporting to a senior official familiar with the
operation, and to designate this official as the formal contact with the Bank and cofinanciers
during the completion mission.
The Borrower is responsible for
(a) preparing its own final evaluation report on the project, as required in the General Conditions
(see OP 13.55, footnote 2). If the report is longer than ten pages, the borrower may be required
to prepare a summary of it, if this condition is contained in the legal agreements. If it is not, the
borrower is still encouraged to prepare the summary. (If the borrower has decided not to furnish
this summary, the ICR should indicate so. If no summary is provided and the full report is more
than ten pages, the ICR should indicate the existence of the borrower's report.) The evaluation
report/summary, which is attached unedited to the ICR, should include:
(i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation experience;
(ii) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of
the project, with special emphasis on lessons leamed that may be relevant in the future;
(iii) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank and any co-financiers during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship among the
borrower, the Bank, and co-financiers, with special emphasis on lessons learned;
(b) adopting a plan for the operational phase of the project, and defining, together with the Bank,
the performance indicators to be used to monitor operations and development impact; and
(c) assisting the Bank in ICR preparation. This support generally consists of
(i) providing the Bank with all necessary information on the economic, financial, social,
institutional, and environmental conditions in which the project was implemented, and on
implementation and operation results (according to the timing specified in the Loan Agreement);
(ii) providing feedback on the quality of the Bank's contribution, from project identification to
supervision;
(iii) participating in the completion mission and relevant discussions among the Bank, the
implementing agencies, and co-financiers; and
(iv) providing comment on the Bank staff's draft ICR within two months of receiving it.



APPENDIX B
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT (NFRRMP)
(CREDIT 2319-GH)
BORRO WER'S EVAL UA TION REPOR T
DECEMBER 1998



National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation
And Maintenance Project (NFRRMP)
Borrower's Evaluation Report
1.    INTRODUCTION
Ghana is a medium-sized country with a land area of about 239,000 sp. km. and an estimated
population of about 16 million.
Over seventy percent (70%) of the population live in the rural areas and are predominately
engaged in farming or other agricultural related activities. Ghana also has vast timber and
mineral resources.
The provision of all-weather feeder roads in the rural areas is therefore of significant importance
in agricultural development and economic growth of the country as a whole.
The Government of Ghana (GOG) recognizing the role of improved feeder road network in the
Economic Recovery Program sought the assistance of the World Bank (IDA) in the design and
implementation of a NFRRMP.
2.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The aim of the project is to facilitate Ghana's economic recovery by:
a) providing improved feeder roads access for the transportation of agricultural produce and
agricultural inputs to an from farms or villages and nearby markets and thereby increasing
food and cash crop production,
b) improving mobility and economic opportunity for the rural poor, and
c) improving institutional capacity of DFR to sustain the feeder road program over time and to
ensure the maintenance of the rehabilitated roads.
These objectives of the NFRRMP re-stated above and the physical works as stipulated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the NFRRMP were to a greater extent fully achieved.
However, there were significant shortfalls in the release of funds for Routine Maintenance on the
rehabilitated roads. This posed a serious threat to the preservation of the investment made. This
trend if not reversed could lead to reduced socio-economic benefits.
3.    PROJECT DESIGN
The project design was generally very good having spelt out clearly the various components
with their corresponding funding. The flexibility of re-allocating funds to other components
with very cogent reasons, particularly for the IDA funded portions, allowed for effective
utilization of funds.



-2 -
However, some areas could be further improved. These are:
a) the selection criteria for the roads appeared to have been skewered towards areas with
agricultural activity going on. No provision was made to cater for areas with high
agricultural potential which cannot be tapped due to lack of access. The very vulnerable
communities also did not appear to have benefited much from the project. There may be the
need to include a component for such areas in future programs;
b) the absence of monitoring teams from other co-financiers particularly OPEC during the
entire implementation period delayed the use of OPEC funds, and
c) some form of unified system for reporting is agreed on by co-financiers to allow for the
preparation and distribution of a single report to all financiers.
4.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION EXPERIENCE
The commencement of actual physical works appeared to have been delayed for the following
reasons:
a) there was this sudden increase in work volume which DFR staff at both the Headquarters and
Regional level needed to cope with, and
b) the unfamiliarity of some of the local consultants in the design of low volume roads (feeder
roads) necessitated frequent review of design proposals hence delaying submission to the
Bank for their 'no objection'.
Some of the positive steps taKen by the Bank which was of immense help in the training of
feeder roads staff were:
a) acceptance of the Bank to allow for the tenders to be evaluated in-house (i.e. by DFR staft)
and also to undertake some of the Supervision of the civil works in-house. With the initial
assistance of the Contract Management Specialist (CMS) which was provided for in the
project the DFR staff were able to quickly appreciate and understand the guidelines from the
Bank for the procurement of goods and services, and
b) the inclusion of the Technical Assistance in the areas of:
Mechanical Specialist
Computer Specialist
Maintenance Engineer
Project Cost Accountant
These personnel who were either completely absent in DFR permanent staff or were
present but did not have adequate experience, assisted greatly in the implementation and
the training of counterpart staff.



- 3 -
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STEERING COMMITTEE
Even so DFR had before this project been involved in the Second Transport Rehabilitation
Project (TRP II) and the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (CRP), the NFRRMP was comparatively a
bigger project and also free standing.
A Project Implementation Steering Committee comprising the Director and the Deputies
together with their immediate Engineers and Quantity Surveyors and the CMS was set up at
Headquarters. Other officers were co-opted to join the Committee as and when necessary.
The Committee's tasks include:
a) the review of reports,
b) the review of status of implementation,
c) identifying areas causing any delays, and
d) appointing sub-committees or individuals to follow-up on decisions, and recommendations
of the Project Implementation Steering Committee.
The Committee had the Director of DFR as the Chairman and the Deputy Director
(Maintenance) as the Task Manager doing the co-ordination between the Regional Offices and
Headquarters.
6.    BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The borrower acting through the Ministry of Roads and Transport met most of the
conditionalities stipulated in the SAR.
However, the inability of MRT to provide the amounts stated in the SAR for Routine
Maintenance of the rehabilitated roads appeared to have created doubts about the sustainability
of the project.
To stress the importance of adequate routine maintenance funds on the sustainability of such a
project, it may be necessary to in future tie the continuation of such as project during the
implementation stage to the full release of amounts stated in the SAR.
7.    BANK AND OTHER CO-FINANCIERS PERFORMANCE
a)    World Bank (IDA)
The frequent visits by the Bank's Team together with early responses to faxes and reports
contributed greatly to the smooth implementation of the project.
Very significant was the acceptance of the Bank to increase its contribution for invoices
submitted for local civil works from seventy percent (70%) to ninety percent (90%). In
addition, because the Bank has well spelt out guidelines, decision taking was rather



-4 -
quicker.
b)    OPEC
Financing under OPEC was rather not very satisfactory. This is because of the absence
of any direct contact with the Task Manager during the implementation.
All communication was done through the telephone, fax or letter. This caused
considerable delay in the start of the use of OPEC funds.
In addition, any invoice irrespective of the amount involved had to be forwarded to
OPEC headquarters in Vienna for payment which sometimes took over eight (8) weeks
before payment is effected.
To minimize such delays, it may be appropriate for OPEC to delegate or adopt
procedures similar to the Bank.



