RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA-81a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVLOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDIA
May 14, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =   Rs   7.50
Rs 1         =   US$  0.13
Rs 1,000         US$133.33
Rs 1,000,000 =   US$133,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AIC       Tamil Nadu Agro-Industries Corporation
ARC   =  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
DSGD  =  Division of Tamil Nadu State Groundwater Directorate
GOI   =  Government of India
LDB   =  Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank
RBI   =  Reserve Bank of India
SEB   =   Tamil Nadu State Electricity Board
SGD   =   Tamil Nadu State Groundwater Directorate



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................    i-iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................1
II.   BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURE 1        ..    ........ . ...               I
A.   India ................l  .  .  ..  . 
B. The State of Tamil Nadu.                                          2
General Description..                                     2
Agricultural Structure .              ...                 3
Agricultural Production .               .                 3
Agricultural Development Priorities                       3
Introduction .......... ...                         3
Minor Irrigation . .                                4
Land Levelling and Drainage.                         5
Farm Mechanization . .                              5
Agricultural Inputs and Services                          6
Credit Services.    6       ......**......       ..       6
III.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT              7
Introduction.                                             7
Agricultural Refinance Corporation         ......         7
Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development
Bank                    ....8
Commercial Banks          .....                           9
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........       .....................                   10
A.   Brief Description       .     . 0. ............10
B.   Detailed Features              .. ... ..........               10
Minor Irrigation ........    .       .     .10
Land Levelling               ...                         12
Land Drainage       . . .....................     1t2
Farm Mechanization ....................                  13
Project Equipment              .....                     13
Consultancy Services           ...14
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which vis-
ited India in September 1970 and was composed of Messrs. C. H. Walton, E. A.
Bobb and R. R. Rossi (IDA) and J-M. Daniel (consultant) who all contributed
to the report.



-2-
Page No.
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing .......................    14
D. Procurement .17
E. Disbursements                     ..18
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    .                   .19
ARC Selection and Control of Lending Banks                19
Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development
Bank (LDB) .19
Procurement Executing Agency .19
Lending Policies and Terms .20
LDB Lending Terms .20
Interest Rates .20
Collateral .21
Down-Payments and Maturities .21
Commercial Banks' Lending Terms .22
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS                   22
Production    ...22
Marketing                   ...23
Prices    ...23
Farmers' Benefits             . ..23
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .25
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS .26
SCHEDULE A - Minor Irrigation -- Program, Lending Requirements and Procedures
SCHEDULE B - Procurement
SCHEDULE C - Project Lending Terms and Conditions
ANNEXES
1.   Minor Irrigation
Appendix 1-1 - Filter Point and Tubewell Investments - Esti-
mated Discharge and Irrigation Use
Appendix 1-2 - Terms of Reference and Technical Data Relating
to Proposed Consultancy Services
2.   Land Levelling and Land Drainage



-3-
3.   Farm Mechanization
4.   The Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Appendix 4-1 - Condensed Statements of Net Income
Appendix 4-2 - Projected Statements of Net Income
Appendix 4-3 - Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 4-4 - Projected Balance Sheets
5.   Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank
Appendix 5-1 - Criteria to be Applied to Proposals Regarding
LDB and Tamil Nadu Banking Arrangements
Appendix 5-2 - Condensed Statements of Net Income
Appendix 5-3 - Projected Statements of Net Income
Appendix 5-4 - Condensed Balance Sheets
Appendix 5-5 - Projected Balance Sheets
6.   Commercial Banks Operating in Tamil Nadu
7.   Project Cost and Disbursements
Appendix 7-1 - Details of Estimated Project Cost
Appendix 7-2 - Breakdown of Tractor, Tractor Implement and
Project Equipment Cost
Appendix 7-3 - Estimated Costs of Consultancy Services
Appendix 7-4 - Estimated IDA Disbursements
8.   Present and Proposed Interest Rates for Project Institutions
9.   Farm Incomes and Financial Rates of Return on Investments
Appendix 9-1 - Farm Models based on Present Costs and Prices
Appendix 9-2 - Financial Rates of Return by Type of Invest-
ment
Appendix 9-3 - Estimated Increases in Cropped Area and Pro-
duction
10.   Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 10-1 - Farm Models With Output Valued at Projected
World Market Prices
Appendix 10-2 - Economic Rates of Return by Type of Investment
Appendix 10-3 - Economic Rate of Return
MAP






INDIA
TANIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CPEDIT PROJECT
SUlDARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural credit project in the State
of Tamil Nadu for which an IDA credit of US$35 million is proposed. It would
support a two and a half year lending program for investments in minor irri-
gation, land levelling and drainage and farm mechanization, and would also
assist in financing equipment required for Project implementation and
consultancy services.
ii.       Tamil Nadu is giving priority to agricultural development and is
concerned to increase the production of food crops, particularly rice, in
which it is now marginally deficient.  As in other Indian states, recent
agricultural progress and future plans are centered on surface and well
irrigation schemes which, when combined with the use of high-yielding seed
varieties and fertilizers provide the basis of India's agricultural growth.
The prospects of extending surface irrigation schemes in Tamil Nadu are
however limited and the State's most important scheme in the Cauvery delta
needs rehabilitation and development. IDA has appraised a comprehensive
project for the Cauvery delta but, owing to a water dispute between Tamil
Nadu and Mtysore a credit has not been negotiated and the project is unlikely
to proceed in the near future.
iii.      The State's groundwater resources are variable.  In the sedimentary
areas, mainly in the coastal plain, reserves are adequate to permit further
limited exploitation and this also applies to the Cauvery delta where a
program of well development for supplementary irrigation can be undertaken
without prejudicing the later realization of a comprehensive rehabilitation
and development project. In the interior crystalline rock areas however,
groundwater resources are more limited and localized and, while further
exploitation can be undertaken, the identification of areas and methods of
extraction will need detailed appraisal. In common with other states, Tamil
Nadu has no legislation controlling groundwater development and this, com-
bined with the State's relatively small-sized farms has led to widespread
underutilization of irrigation facilities and over-investment. To meet this
situation, it is necessary to introduce controls through the banking
mechanism and supported by the State and its Groundwater Directorate (SGD).
Such temporary measures, though relating only to lending operations, would
go far to meet the State's present groundwater problems. A strengthening
of SGD is however also necessary and the Project would thus help finance
consultancy services including an aerial survey.
iv.       Other investments to which the State Government attaches importance
are land levelling, drainage and farm mechanization, Land levelling is a
vital element of irrigation schemes as the means of making optimum use of
irrigation water while elsewhere, crop yields can be increased significantly
by drainage projects. Farm mechanization is an important means to increase
the intensity of cultivation and improved farming technology.



ii -
v.        The Project would assist in financing on-farm investments, Project
equipment and consultancy services estimated to cost US$62.3 million equiva-
lent: US$43.5 million for minor irrigation, US$2.7 million for land levelling,
US$1.2 million for drainage, US$8.8 million for farm mechanization (tractors,
tractor implements and initial tractor spare parts), US$3.2 million for
Project equipment (well-drilling and earth moving equipment) and US$2.9
million for consultancy services. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$12.9 million equivalent or about 21% of the total Project cost. IDA
would finance US$35 million equivalent, being the foreign exchange component
and about one-half of the local currency costs.
vi.       Farmers' contributions would, with some exceptions, normally amount
to 20% of the cost of individual investments but for special categories
of small farmers this would be reduced to 10% for certain minor irris tion
investments. Although a modification of the State Government's earlier
policy for the future of the State Land Development Bank (LDB) system has
dispelled doubts about its acceptability for Project lending, its inclusioin
would depend on IDA receiving confirmation of proposals for its reorganiza-
tion and future development. The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
which would be the channel for IDA funds under the lending program would
therefore, as a condition of credit effectiveness, submit such proposals
acceptable to IDA and inform IDA of detailed banking arrangements in ac-
cordance with agreed criteria. These proposals are expected to include
both LDB and commercial banks and they, together with ARC would meet the
balance of the Project's financing. ARC is already acting as the refinancing
agency for three other IDA supported agricultural credit projects in India
and would be responsible for supervising Project operations.
vii.      The IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI) would be made
available to ARC, and, of ARC's borrowings about 70% would be repayable to
GOI after nine years at an interest rate of 4-3/4% and the balance after
15 years at 5-1/4% per annum. ARC would supervise, and refinance at 6-1/2%
per annum the loan operations of agreed lending banks. Loans to individual
borrowers would bear interest at 9% per annum and would be repayable normally
over periods of up to 10 years but extending to 15 years for small farmers.
viii.     The implementation of the minor irrigation, land levelling
and drainage schemes would be by local contractors or hired labor using local
materials.  Nearly 50,000 individual on-farm investments would be made and
international competitive bidding would therefrre be inappropriate. Tractors
to be procured under the Project would be imported and sold to farmers through
existing commercial channels and orders would be based on individual farmers'
preferences and bulked to obtain quantity discounts. At present five foreign
tractor suppliers from Bank member countries are eligible to supply and seven
others are under consideration. Well drilling and earth moving machinery
would be procured through international competitive bidding and licenses
would be issued for the import of an initial stock of tractor spare parts
procured under the Project.



- iii -
ix.       ARC has competent management and is in sound financial condition
and,banking arrangements in Tamil Nadu comprising LDB and commercial banks
can provide a good framework for Project lending. Financial returns to
farmers on best estimates range from 46% to 27% and the rate of return to
the economy is estimated to be 28%. Sensitivity tests made on both financial
and economic rates of return still show a satisfactory position. Appropriate
assurances have been obtained at negotiations and the Project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$35 million.






INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1968 an IDA mission, with assistance of the PAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Program, reviewed agricultural credit institutions and farm investment
requirements in selected parts of India and identified high priority agri-
cultural credit projects. Projects in the three States of Gujarat, Punjab
and Andhra Pradesh have been approved by IDA and this Project for Tamil Nadu
is the fourth to be appraised. It would enable farmers through institutional
credit to make investments in minor irrigation, land levelling and drainage
and farm mechanization and thus obtain increased production and other benefits
from the new high-yielding seed varieties, fertilizer use and surface water
irrigation schemes.
1.02      Past Bank Group lending for India's agriculture (excluding the
US$23 million Beas Equipment Project under the Indus Treaty) totals nearly
US$237 million. Hitherto water development projects have constituted the
major part of this lending but other types of agricultural projects have
recently increased in importance and with this Project, credit project
approvals would total nearly US$122 million. Approval is also about to be
sought for a similar credit project in Haryana for US$25 million and there
are other credit projects among agricultural projects under consideration.
1.03      An IDA mission in October 1969 appraised a proposal for the
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage works in the Cauvery delta of
Tamil Nadu and, with the aim of integrating surface and groundwater use,
its draft report included proposals for minor irrigation development there.
Owing to a dispute between Tamil Nadu and Mysore over the use of the Cauvery
waters, the proposed credit has not been negotiated and it is not now ex-
pected to proceed in the near future. While it would still be preferable to
undertake a fully integrated scheme, some minor irrigation development
(which is not affected by the dispute) can be undertaken without prejudicing
this ultimate objective. Accordingly, this Tamil Nadu Project envisages
certain minor irrigation investments which would have been part of the
Cauvery project. It was appraised in September 1970 by Messrs. C. H. Walton,
E. A. Bobb and R. R. Rossi (IDA) and J-M. Daniel (consultant) and this report
is based on the mission's findings.
II. BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURE
A. India -/
2.01      Since 1965 India has changed the emphasis of its development
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in "Economic Situation and Prospects of
India" Report No. SA-25a shortly to be circulated.



-2-
efforts from industry to agriculture. As a result, priority has been given
in recent years to accelerating the introduction of the new agricultural
technology, through increasing the availability of improved inputs and by
providing economic incentives to farmers. The new agricultural strategy
has brought some encouraging results and the increased use of high yielding
seed varieties and fertilizers, particularly when combined with irrigation,
has contributed to a significant increase in farm production.
2.02      Although 70% of India's labor force is engaged in agriculture
(providing one-half India's GNP) only a small proportion of farmers have
so far benefited from the agricultural advance and these have been mainly
farmers with access to knowledge and capital to adopt the new farming
technology. A vastly increased number of farmers could however take
advantage of the new techniques if helped with credit and, if the momientum
of agricultural growth is to be maintained, it is important that the supply
of rural credit for on-farm investment be increased.
2.03      The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has estimated that credit institu-
tions will require Rs 15,000 million (US$2,000 million) for agricultural
investment during the five years of the Fourth Plan (1969/70-1973/74).
Taking an annual average of Rs 3,000 million, this compares with about Rs 606
million invested in 1966/67.  Short-term credit demands are expected to
amount to Rs 20,000 million (US$2,666 million) in 1973/74, five times the
level of 1968/69 advances and overall, agricultural credit requirements are
expected to increase five-fold from the mid-sixties to the end of the Plan
period. If these substantial credit demands are to be met, India will need
to mobilize more of its own, particularly rural, savings and increase ex-
ternal borrowings.
B. The State of Tamil Nadu
General Description
2.04      Tamil Nadu (formerly Madras State) situated in the south of the
Indian sub-continent, occupies an area of about 130,000 km2. Its estimated
population of 38.6 million (1969) represents about 7% of the Indian total.
The State's per capita income in 1967/68 was Es 550 about equal to that for
all India. About 60% of the working population is engaged in agriculture
which accounts for 45% of the State's GNP. The State is divided into 14
districts and sub-divided into 114 taluks.
2.05      The State has two main geographical regions; first the coastal
plain, 50-100 km wide which runs from Madras to Cape Comorin and from the
Bay of Bengal to the Eastern Ghats with mainly sedimentary soils and an
average rainfall of about 1,200 mm and, second, the central plateau lying
between the Eastern and Western Ghats with mainly red soils on crystalline
rock formations and with an average rainfall of about 800 mm. The Western
Ghats are the watershed for the main rivers flowing into the Bay of Bengal of



which the Cauvery is the most important. There are three seasons; the SW
monsoon from June to September (maximum month 100 mm); the NE monsoon from
October to December with the heaviest rainfall (maximum month 700 mm) and
the dry season from January to May with little rain. Temperatures range
from 25°C in January to 31.5C in June.
Agricultural Structure
2.06      The net sown area is about 6 million ha (46% of total area)
while a further 2.8 million ha (22% of total area) is classified as pasture,
fallow or cultivable waste land. About 2.6 million ha (40% of net sown
area) is irrigated of which the most important source is tanks (38%)
followed by canals (36%) and wells (26%).
2.07      Farm holdings in Tamil Nadu are small and often fragmented.  60%
of holdings are up to 2 ha (representing 22% of farm land), 32% range be-
tween 2 and 6 ha (32% of farm land) with the balance of 8% (46% farm land)
above 6 ha. There is a relatively high proportion of tenant farmers (24%
of farms in Thanjavur district) who at present have relatively limited rights
and who generally are unable to mortgage the lands they farm. A ceiling
has been placed on individual land ownership but this is generally recognized
as ineffective and operational farm units are often greater than statistics
would imply because of divided ownership among many members of the same
family. Nonetheless the small size of farms is an important factor in the
State's agricultural economy.
Agricultural Production
2.08      Although paddy is the State's most important single crop (repre-
senting about 36% of cropped area), rice production which in 1968/69 amounted
to 3.7 million tons is barely adequate to meet local consumption demands and
in drought years must be imported from other states. The remainder of the
cropped area is divided among cereals (27% of cropped area), oilseeds -
mainly groundnuts (16%), pulses (6%) cotton (4%), sugar cane (2%) and a
variety of other commercial and subsistence crops (9%). The total produc-
tion of cereals and pulses averaged 5.4 million tons over the three years
to 1968/69 while of the commercial crops, 1968/69 production of sugar cane
was 8.9 million tons, cotton 369,000 tons and oilseeds 925,000 tons.
Agricultural Development Priorities
Introduction
2.09      The State's main agricultural priorities are to increase the
production of rice and pulses and to expand the production of commercial
crops primarily through increased cropping intensity and by the greater use
of high yielding seed varieties. As the prospects for extending surface
irrigation schemes are limited, the State aims to increase cropping intensity
(from an average of 90% in 1967/68 to a planned 106% in 1973/74) through more
on-farm minor irrigation investments, land improvement and farm mechanization
schemes. Increased priority is being given to the needs of small farmers.



- 4-
Minor Irrigation (Annex 1)
2.10      It is estimated that at the end of 1969 there were about 1 mil-
lion wells of various types in the State and of this total about 40% were
energized by electricity. Types of well development broadly follow the
main geological areas with filter points and tubewells being concentrated
in the sedimentary soils of the coastal plain and dugwells (or open wells)
being the main features of the crystalline rock areas of the interior
plateau. Wells are usually the only source of irrigation but in the
sedimentary area (especially in the Cauvery delta) they often supplement
surface irrigation.
2.11      The absence of controls over groundwater development and a lack of
water management have resulted in the poor use of irrigation faciliti s
and, in many areas, the over-exploitation of available water resources.
While these features are not uncormon in many Indian states, the two pro-
blems are particularly acute in Tamil Nadu.
2.12      The prevalence of small farms, inadequate knowledge of crop water
requirements and low well operating costs (in which subsidized electricity
rates are an important factor) have led to a situation where most wells are
irrigating areas significantly below their potential. This not only applies
in areas with relatively adequate groundwater supplies (as in parts of the
Cauvery delta) where the main result is substantial capital over-investment
and flooding, but also in crystalline areas where groundwater is scarce and
the result is a serious limitation of development potential. In the latter
areas it is estimated that with proper management existing wells could
irrigate three times the present areas. The situation therefore presents
an organizational problem of sharing scarce capital and natural resources
to ensure maximum economic advantage.
2.13      The shortage of groundwater resources throughout the crystalline
areas, with in some areas the apparent exhaustion of water supplies is
itself a major problem. To some extent this has been intensified by the
droughts of 1968 and 1969 and increased electrification of wells leading
to a greater water drawdown, but in many areas inadequate attention to
well spacing has been a major contributing factor. Unlike the sedimentary
areas where groundwater is located in a few relatively large and easily
identifiable aquifers, dugwells in crystalline areas draw on water from a
large number of small reservoirs which are more difficult to identify and
measure. Thus, although there are many crystalline areas where further
groundwater could be economically exploited, new appraisal techniques (para
4.03) will be necessary both to identify the areas and decide the most
effective means of exploitation.
2.14      At present no legislation exists in India to control the exploit-
ation of groundwater, though model legislation is being prepared by the
Government of India (GOI) with a view to enactment by the states. It is
unlikely that Tamil Nadu would pass such legislation before the end of 1972
but the State Government is willing to introduce controls through adminis-
trative and lending procedures; such controls could temporarily provide an



alternative to legislation but, because their scope would effectively be
limited to institutionally financed irrigation development, they cannot be
regarded as a complete solution to the State's groundwater problems.
2.15      In 1969 Tamil Nadu established a State Groundwater Directorate
(SGD) which through area divisions advises on groundwater development.
SGD also has the support and guidance of the all-India Central Ground Water
Board. Within the sedimentary areas, considerable information on groundwater
resources has, or will become available largely as a result of a UNDP project
which will conclude its work in the Cauvery delta at the end of 1971. In
the crystalline areas however, there is little information on groundwater
and, identification through new appraisal techniques would be greatly assisted
by aerial photographs which at present cover only a small part of the area
in this and neighboring states. Although SGD has been established with a
good nucleus of staff, additional appointments and initially consultancy
services will be necessary to carry out its increasing responsibilities
(para 4.12).
Land Levelling and Drainage (Annex 2)
2.16      Land levelling is carried out on farms within the command areas of
surface irrigation schemes so that water can be controlled and distributed
evenly. The Parambikulam-Aliyar (PAP) scheme in Coimbatore district is the
only large-irrigation project at present being developed in Tamil Nadu and
it is expected that 97,000 ha will ultimately come within its command. Land
levelling on 34,000 ha had, as of September 1970, been financed by LDB loans
and it is expected that by July 1971, finance for a further 10,000 ha will
be required to complete the development. Land levelling is carried out
either manually, sometimes supplemented by bullocks or with hired earth moving
machinery.
2.17      The need for land drainage particularly in the Cauvery delta is
urgent and over wide areas paddy yields are depressed by excessive watering
and inadequate drains. Although so far on a small scale (about 5,000 ha)
group schemes in the Cauvery delta involving about 100 farmers each have
demonstrated the impressive advantages to be gained from drainage (with which
land consolidation is often associated) so that farmers' have been willing
to take individual loans (about Ra 375 per ha) for their share of the total
cost. This type of development now needs greater publicity and emphasis and
it would be appropriate that at least part of the resources which the State
Government at present devotes to subsidies for the sinking of new wells
(para 4.05) be applied to land consolidation aspects of this investment.
Farm Mechanization (Annex 3)
2.18      With a present tractor population estimated at 4,500, farm
mechanization has taken place on a limited scale throughout the State though
to a smaller extent in the delta paddy growing areas where small size farms
with difficult access are a constraint. In other irrigated areas, farm
mechanization is increasingly important as the means to speedier and timely



- 6 -
cultivation and thus in achieving higher cropping intensities and as a re-
sult, there is now a large unfulfilled demand for tractors which current
Indian production and imports are unable to satisfy. As elsewhere in India,
tractors are used mainly for tillage and transport but the range of applica-
tion is widening with experience.
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.19      In its endeavour to increase the production of food crops by 4.6%
per annum, the State Government in its current five year plan has allocated
Rs 1,430 million (20% of total) to the agricultural sector (including irri-
gation) with particular attention being given to the increased supply of
fertilizers and high yielding seed varieties. The consumption of nitrogenous
fertilizers which increased from 72,000 tons in 1965/66 to 113,000 tons
in 1968/69 is projected to reach 247,000 tons in 1973/74 with corresponding in-
creases in phosphatic and potassium fertilizers. Indian farmers generally
have been slow to accept the new high yielding rice varieties because of
their greater sensitivity to pests and diseases, lower milling quality and
less acceptable taste and in Tamil Nadu these account for about one-third
of the paddy area. It is planned to double this by 1973/74 with most of
the balance being under improved local varieties which still give higher
yields than the traditional types. A similar increase is expected in the
use of higher yielding varieties of millets and pulses.
2.20      Agricultural extension services and the State's 25 research
stations are the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture and there
are three agricultural colleges, that at Coimbatore being the most notable.
The Department through its engineering wing provides most of the State's
well drilling services and bulldozer and tractor hire for land levelling
and farm custom services. The State Government's direct participation in
these activities partly explains the highly subsidized rates which are charged
for these services (paras 4.05 and 4.06) resulting in the virtual exclusion of
the private sector (limited to a few well drilling firms) which cannot com-
pete on price. It also accounts for the relatively limited scope of the
State's Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC) established in 1966 which has been
mainly concerned with the sale of tractors imported from east European
countries.
Credit Services
2.21      As elsewhere in India, most institutional agricultural credit in
Tamil Nadu comes from the cooperative movement with banking operations
divided between the State Cooperative Bank for mainly short- term loans and
the Cooperative State Land Development Bank (LDB) for long-and medium-term
loans, an arrangement which although long established does not always ensure
coordinated lending. In 1968/69 LDB took over from the State Government its
remaining responsibilities for direct lending operations in agriculture and
it has thus become the official lending channel. Although still relatively
small, commercial banks which combine short- and longer-term credit are,
with Government encouragement increasing their agricultural lending activities,
while AIC operates a hire purchase scheme for tractors.



2.22      Because of the shortage of institutional credit resources how-
ever, most farmers borrow from private money lenders. The latter usually
charge an effective interest rate of at least 20% per annum (compared with
about 9% from institutions) and their ability to lend considerable amounts
at this level emphasizes both the high returns to be made from agriculture
and the urgency of developing a credit policy which would attract at least
part of the rural savings into institutions. Without such a policy the
cooperative institutions in particular will continue to be heavily dependent
on governmental and outside financing.
III.  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
Introduction
3.01      Financing arrangements would generally follow the pattern estab-
lished under the previous IDA supported agricultural credit projects. The
IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI) would, in respect of the lending
program, be channelled to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) which
would in turn partly refinance the lending to ultimate borrowers of the Tamil
Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank (LDB) and its Primary Banks
and/or of participating commercial banks.
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) (Annex 4)
3.02      ARC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was estab-
lished in 1963 to provide medium- and long-term finance to agricultural
lending agencies throughout India. Its role is important not only as a
channel for development funds but also for its influence on the lending
policies and operational procedures of the agencies it assists. The latter
are state cooperative land development banks and commercial banks and ARC
refinance their individual loans to farmers or groups of farmers on an approved
scheme basis.
3.03      Most of ARC growth has occurred since 1967 and, as of June 30,
1970, its commitments totalled nearly Rs 2,150 million (US$286 million);
although not directly comparable, IDA's commitment in respect of its three
approved credit projects is Rs 611 million (with a further Rs 3.3 million
in respect of an agro-aviation project). With about 65% of its lending
devoted to minor irrigation investments, ARC's loan portfolio at June 1970
was Rs 588 million. Apart from its share capital, ARC funds have mainly
come from GOI loans (at about 5% interest per annum) and to a lesser extent
from the public issue of bonds (at about 5-3/4%). Since 1968/69, ARC has
made a small surplus on its operations after paying its statutory dividend
of 4-1/4% and its financial position should be further strengthened by the
1/2% per annum increase in its lending rate introduced in November 1970.
This has had the effect of extending the 6-1/2% per annum rate, which pre-
viously applied only under IDA supported schemes, to all lending.



- 8 -
3.04      With its head office in Bombay and regional offices in most of the
states, ARC has a management staff of about 90, most of whom are seconded
from RBI. Its operations however continue to expand rapidly and IDA has
been concerned that ARC should be staffed adequately both to supervise
existing investments and to play a larger role in the appraisal of schemes
submitted by states. To this end ARC has strengthened its technical ex-
pertise (previously provided solely by consultants) by appointing a nucleus
of its own specialist staff and has prepared an overall staff development
plan for the period to March 31, 1974.
Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank (LDB) (Annex 5)
3.05      The Cooperative Land Development (or Mortgage) Banks in India are
either unitary organizations (as in Gujarat) with a central state bank
lending to farmers through branches, or federations with the state bank
refinancing the operations of a network of independent primary banks. The
federal system applies to the Tamil Nadu LDB and its organization follows
the general pattern of this banking arrangement in other states (e.g. Punjab
and Andhra Pradesh). Although technically independent, the Primaries are
refinanced solely by the State LDB and their combined lending operations are
thus effectively those of a single operating entity.
3.06      The Tamil Nadu LDB's share capital is owned by the Primaries and
the State Government and as of June 30, 1970, total subscribed share capital
was Rs 27.7 million of which the State Government's holding was Rs 4.5 million.
Apart from short-term overdraft facilities, LDB raises its funds by the issue
of debentures amounting as of June 30, 1970 to Rs 632 million of which Rs 23
million were in respect of special debentures issued for part refinancing by
ARC of its approved schemes: this reflects ARC's relatively small contribution
to and influence on LDB's lending so far. LDB also issues rural debentures
designed to attract small farmers' savings but, as with other LDBs, the
response, partly due to the low interest rate which up to now has been of-
fered (6-1/2% per annum maximum) has been poor. Farmers' holdings of these
debentures now amounts to about Rs 11 million and with Rs 28 million sub-
scribed in the Primaries' share capital, their contribution to total LDB
operations is about Rs 39 million.
3.07      LDB's Board has 56 directors and each of the Primaries nine.
Loans, which for more than Rs 5,000 have to be approved by LDB's 11 district
offices, may be granted for most medium- and long-term investments in agri-
culture but in practice about 80% of LDB's lending has been for minor irri-
gation investments. To borrow a farmer must hold shares in his Primary
equal to 5% of the loan, this in effect being his downpayment: in turn
Primaries' shareholding in LDB equal 4% of their borrowings therefrom,
Loans may not generally exceed 50% of the value of land offered as security.
However, for minor irrigation and tractor investments not refinanced by
ARC this is increased to 75% and this has tended to over capitalization
by individuals and discourage grouping to share investments. LDB's borrow-
ing rates per annum currently range between 6% on ordinary (mainly state
financed) debentures and 6-1/2% on ARC special debentures and it lends to
Primaries at 7-1/4% for ordinary lending and 7-3/4% for ARC supported
schemes; the Primaries finally lend to farmers at 8-1/4% and 8-3/4% per annum
respectively.



- 9 -
3.08      Although established in 1929, LDB's real growth has been in the
last two years, its portfolio more than doubling between 1968 and 1970
(from Rs 263 million to Rs 545 million).  Profits have increased at a
slower rate and, in 1969/70, were nearly Rs 2.6 million or only 6.5% of
gross expenditure. In the same year farmers' overdues totalled 10% but
this shortfall was mostly absorbed by the Primaries whose repayments to
LDB were 99% of the amounts due.
3.09      While LDB is a financially sound and well-run organization, the
Government in Tamil Nadu has traditionally exercised considerable control
over its banking system and its independence was further substantially
reduced by new legislation which came into effect in September 1969.  Under
this, the State Government took over from LDB responsibility for establish-
ing new Primaries and assumed powers for the appointment of staff thus
reducing LDB control and reversing the general trend in India of developing
such institutions into integrated organizational and management structures.
The State Government subsequently announced its intention of changing the
distribution basis of the Primaries from one per taluk to one for each
development block and thereby of increasing the number of banks from 106
to 375 by a target date of February 1972: by September 1970 a total of 173
banks had been established.
3.10      The opening of new Primary Banks at the rate proposed would have
been greatly in excess of available trained staff needed to manage them and
would have brought an increasing amount of Primary Bank lending under the
control of inexperienced directors. Moreover, despite State Government
subsidies, many new Primaries could not be expected to become viable for
a long time while LDB would have been faced with a greatly increased
administrative burden. To meet this situation, the State Government agreed
in September 1970 to open no more than than 50 additional Primaries before
credit negotiations and at negotiations, its representative stated that it
had decided only to open further Primaries in special circumstances and
then with ARC agreement; Primary Banks which had no prospect of becoming
viable would be merged.
3.11      While formal representations on the future of the LDB system are
awaited (para 5.01) it can, in the changed circumstances, be considered
suitable for Project lending. Some of the Primary Banks, however, may not
meet required banking standards and in those areas, which are expected
to be limited, commercial banks would be capable and willing to carry out
lending under the Project.
Commercial Banks (Annex 6)
3.12      At September 1970 there were 39 commercial banks' operating in
Tamil Nadu of which 18 were nationalized. Together they provide over 1,200
branches throughout the State (nationalized banks 860 branches), the most
important being the Indian Bank (186 branches), the State Bank of India
(171) and the Indian Overseas Bank (141). There is thus a good network of
commercial banking in Tamil Nadu.



- 10 -
3.13      Since nationalization, commercial banks have been encouraged to
play a larger part in agricultural credit and a number (at least five in
Tamil Nadu) have already appointed technical staff to advise on agricultural
investments. Meanwhile, under the lead bank system whereby certain banks
are allocated areas of major financing responsibility, there has been an
expansion of new branches in rural districts. Most of the commercial bank
lending has been for minor irrigation and tractors and a downpayment of
between 25 and 33-1/3% is usually required. Interest rates range from 9 to
9-1/2% per annum and the banks generally require security in land to the
extent of twice loan value.
3.14      A working relationship between the cooperative and commercial
banking systems has yet to be defined but it can be expected to vary in
different parts of India according to local circumstances. The growth
of commercial bank lending for agriculture is however a welcome development
both for the alternative (and comprehensive) facilities which it provides
to those who are not cooperative members, and for the degree of competition
in service which it is bringing into the system. While it would be prefer-
able that commercial banks should work alongside and supplement the activi-
ties of cooperative credit institutions, they alone could provide satisfac-
tory banking facilities for the Project, in those areas where LDB Primary
Banks were not acceptable for Project lending.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project would be part of a lending program of banks in Tamil
Nadu, which, over 2-1/2 years would help finance farmers' investments in
minor irrigation (about 78% of total investments), land levelling (5%), land
drainage (2%) and farm mechanization (15%). It would additionally include
the financing of some equipment required for Project execution and of con-
sultancy services. The latter would comprise advisors to the Tamil Nadu
SGD, and an aerial survey of crystalline areas of Tamil Nadu and the three
adjacent states of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Mysore. The investment
program would be implemented through the Tamil Nadu banking system under
refinance arrangements with ARC and would involve about 50,000 loans to
farmers and contractors. The total Project cost is estimated at Rs 467.6
million (US$62.3 million) and IDA's contribution would be US$35 million.
B. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation
4.02      Investments in minor irrigation would be in two parts.



- 1 1 -
(a)  They would include the development of about 7,000 filter
points, 1/ 3,800 shallow and 760 medium tubewells and the ins-
tallation of some 4,000 electric engine pump sets to energize
existing filter points. These investments would be made in
specifically defined (mainly sedimentary) areas of three
districts and would draw on identified aquifers. Provided
lending criteria are strictly observed (para 4.03), investments
in the Cauvery delta (comprising all the filter point and filter
point energization investments and 1,150 of the above tubewells)
would not increase present flooding problems. These
investments could later be integrated into a comprehensive
rehabilitation and development scheme for the area; and
(b)  the Project would include a block sum of Rs 125 million
for investments in dugwells, dugwell improvement and ener-
gization in the crystalline areas of four (different) districts.
While this sum represents the estimated total cost of such
investments likely to be justified in these areas (it would
finance about 10,000 new energized dugwells) present information
is inadequate to quantify accurately the respective numbers
of each investment. Their identificationwould thus depend
on further and improved field appraisals.
In the case of each energized well, estimates include provision of Rs 2,500
for electricity connection.
4.03      In the absence of legislation controlling groundwater development
it is essential to establish pragmatic measures which would reduce the real
dangers of over-exploitation and over-capitalization to acceptable levels
and, at the same time, encourage an equitable sharing of irrigation benefits
among large and small farmers. As a large part of minor irrigation develop-
ment is at present financed through institutional loans, minimum require-
ments can be achieved through specific lending criteria enforced through the
banking system and supported by the State Government. While such measures
cannot be considered a permanent substitute for effective legislation, their
adoption would bring a significant improvement to the present situation.
In particular, well spacing requirements would help safeguard against the
dangers of over-exploitation and encourage the better use of irrigation water.
These benefits would also follow from the improved methods of field appraisal
proposed which, in the crystalline areas would differ from present practice
in that they would be based on elementary watersheds and include an analysis
of factors now excluded in the assessment of resources.
4.04      It was agreed at negotiations that minor irrigation investments
would be limited to the areas specified and would conform to the lending
1/   Small diameter wells of about 10 cm sunk to a depth of 10-20 m and
equipped with pumps of 3-5 hp.



- 12 -
criteria and appraisal techniques set out in Schedule A. The State Govern-
ment has also agreed to give its specific support to apply the same criteria
to all minor irrigation development under its direct or indirect control and
provide SGD with the staffing and facilities required for carrying out its
responsibilities including the provision of adequate transportation. Both
small and large farmers would benefit from these minor irrigation invest-
ments, appraisal criteria being based on water use and not the size of land
holdings.
4.05      Farmers making investments in minor irrigation at present receive
substantial direct and indirect subsidies: apart from a direct subsidy of
about Rs 500 for each well installed, charges made for Government-operated
well drilling average about one-third the commercial cost. Apart from placing
a heavy financial burden on the State Government (SEB losses are currently
estimated at Rs 30 million annually) these subsidies encourage the wasteful
use of groundwater and the returns to farmers make such subsidies unnecessary.
Accordingly, during negotiations it was agreed that as a condition of credit
effectiveness, the State Government would abolish the direct well subsidy
except for small farmers, organized in groups to promote improved water use,
for whom the Rs 500 would be in reduction of the loan. SEB will consult
with IDA within six months of credit effectiveness on its cost structures
with proposals for a tariff increase and the State Government has agreed
to increase by December 31, 1972 well drilling rates to a level which will
cover all costs and provide a small operating surplus.
Land Levelling
4.06      Investments in land levelling (about 10,000 ha) would take place
on farms on the PAP irrigation scheme in Coimbatore District in continuation
of the program financed by LDB with ARC support. Operations are carried
out either by hired labor often assisted by bullocks or by earth-moving
machinery but the latter has been limited by inadequate equipment (para
4.11). Charges for the hire of earth-moving machinery (provided by the State
Government) are about one-half the economic rates and during negotiations
it was agreed that, as a condition of credit effectiveness, these rates
would be increased to and maintained at a commercial level sufficient to
cover all costs and provide a small operating surplus.
Land Drainage
4.07      The need for land drainage with which in some areas is related
the consolidation of fragmented holdings, is well recognized in Tamil Nadu
but experience so far has been limited and costs have varied in different
conditions and circumstances. It is envisaged that most of the Project
investments (about 18,000 ha) would be for group drainage and consolidation
schemes in sedimentary areas (particularly the Cauvery delta) and for this
purpose, ARC in conjunction with the State Government and lending banks,
would prepare investment guidelines and loan scales acceptable to IDA which
could follow the practice now applying in Thanjavur district: such scales,
which because of the land consolidation element could reasonably include some
Government subsidy, would subsequently only be changed with IDA agreement.



- 13 -
Farm Mechanization
4.08      Farm mechanization investments would be in tractors (about 1,500
in the 25-60 hp range), and tractor implements including trailers. These
tractors which are now in greatest demand, are most suited to conditions in
the State where heavy soils, irrigation and sugarcane cultivation, among
other factors require tractors of these sizes. Farm mechanization investments
would not be limited to specified areas but most demand is likely to come
from those areas where irrigation is prevalent.
4.09      Prices to farmers of tractors imported at the official exchange
rate are generally in line with those applying in other countries but they
are low when compared with those of less advanced models produced in India.
A shortage of tractor supplies has thus led to an active market in second-
hand tractors at substantial premia. IDA has discussed tractor pricing with
the Indian authorities and has been informed that GO has taken steps to be
released from the arrangements binding tractors at a zero import duty under
GATT, and that it expects that these negotiations will reach a successful
conclusion in the near future. Project estimates meanwhile include the 9%
sales taxes at present applicable in Tamil Nadu.
4.10      Under prevailing price relationships there are strong incentives
to invest in farm mechanization and while such investments may be attractive
financially, they may be sub-marginal economically. The present excessive
demand for tractors can be expected to continue as long as the "money
cost for capital goods" is substantially lower than the shadow cost
of capital, and wage rates higher than real labor costs. In this situation
it is impossible to prevent wasteful tractor financing but the overall
demand/supply position in Tamil Nadu suggests that 1,500 additional tractors
would be economically used. However, in order to ensure their reasonably
efficient use, ARC would require lending banks to ensure that applicants can
demonstrate that the tractor would be used to crop not less than 40 ha per
annum or for 1,000 hours of productive work in agriculture per annum. Such
criteria would apply to the applicant's own land or to the land of other
farmers (through custom work) or a combination of both. Applicants would
be required to have at least three implements for use with their tractors
and to purchase post-warranty service on tractors for the life of the loan.
Assurances on these matters were obtained during negotiations.
Project Equipment
4.11      The Project would include the financing of 12 rotary rigs and other
well drilling equipment with initial spare parts to meet the incremental
needs of the program. Of this equipment not less than one-quarter would be
offered to private contractors for purchase and the balance (including any
part of that quarter not taken up by contractors) would be for purchase out-
right by the State Government or by its designated agency. Earth-moving
machinery required for land levelling comprising 10 units of graders, scrapers
and other equipment would similarly be purchased outright by Government or
its agency.



- 14 -
Consultancy Services
4.12      The effective implementation of minor irrigation investments
under the Project and the possibility of extending such investments under
future projects will substantially depend on the efficiency and capacity
of SGD and its ability to obtain additional technical data on groundwater
resources and its application. SGD has already been established with a
nucleus of good staff but this will need strengthening and the Project
would thus include provision for the services of three qualified and ex-
perienced consultants over two years who would primarily assist in estab-
lishing new appraisal techniques. During negotiations it was agreed that
IDA's acceptance of SGD's initial staffing would be a condition of credit
effectiveness and that the consultants would be appointed within three
months of the effective date.
4.13      The Project would also include the aerial photography of those
parts of the crystalline areas of Tamil Nadu (approximately three-quarters)
not so far covered. Because similar conditions are known to exist in
neighboring Andhra Pradesh (the approved IDA project there excludes water
development in large areas due to inadequate information on groundwater
resources) and Maharashtra and Mysore (soon to be appraised by IDA) it is
appropriate that this study should be extended to those States. Infra-red
aerial photography is a valuable technique both for the speed and the
greater precision it brings to the assessment of groundwater resources and
the latter is particularly important where realistic (rather than excessive)
safety margins have to be established. Its inclusion would therefore greatly
assist the implementation of this Project and provide essential information
for further projects in Tamil Nadu and the other States concerned. During
negotiations it was agreed that contracts with the selected consultants
would be executed by March 31, 1972 and this would allow time to complete
the necessary preliminary arrangements with the four states concerned. Con-
sultants' appointments, conditions and periods of employment and terms of
reference covering the two aspects of the technical assistance (Appendix
1-2) would be subject to IDA approval.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.14      Estimated Project cost, together with foreign exchange require-
ments, are detailed as follows:



- 15 -
Rs (millions)           US$ (millions)         Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
1. Minor Irrigation  310.0   16.3    326.3    41.3    2.2         43.5        5
2. Land Levelling      18.0    2.0      20.0      2.4    0.3       2.7       10
3. Land Drainage        8.2    0.8       9.0      1.1    0.1       1.2        8
4. Tractors             8.9   32.6      41.5      1.2    4.3       5.5       79
5. Tractor
Implements         18.6    0.9      19.5      2.5    0.1       2.6        5
6. Initial Tractor
Spare Parts          -     4.9       4.9       -     0.7       0.7     100
7. Project Equipment
(a) Drilling Rigs   3.2   13.2       16.4     0.4    1.8        2.2      80
(b) Earth-Moving
Machinery       0.9    6.9       7.8     0.1    0.9        1.0      88
8. Consultancy
Services            3.3   18.9      22.2      0.4    2.5       2.9       85
Total Project
Cost            371.1   96.5    467.6    49.4   12.9       62.3       21
Details of the cost estimates are shown in Appendix 7-1.  Estimates are based
on present prices including a 10% allowance for cost increases.
4.15      The total cost of Rs 467.6 million would be financed from the
following sources.



- 16 -
Total
ARC/l,       Proj-
Farmers/      Lending      GOI and       ect         IDA
Contractors    Banks        State Govt.  Cost    Credit Funds
Z of          % of          % of                   % of
Rs M  Total  Rs M  Total  Rs M  Total  Rs M    Rs M   Total
1. Minor               /2
Irrigation    52.2L-  16   29.4       9   244.7    75  326.3   170.0    52
2. Land
Levelling       4.0    20    4.0    20    12.0    60   20.0    11.0    55
3. Land Drainage   0.9    10    0.8        9     7.3    81    9.0       5.0    55
4. Tractors        10.4    25    7.8    19    23.3    56   41.5    32.6    79
5. Tractor Imple-
ments           4.9    25    3.7    19    10.9    56   19.5         -       -
Total Lending
Program          72.4    17   45.7    11   298.2    72  416.3   218.6    53
6. Initial Trac-
tor Spare          /3
Parts           4.9'  100      -     -       -       -     4.9      4.9   100
7. Project Equip-
ment/4
(a) Drilling
Rigs       -       -       -     -      16.4   100   16.4    13.2    80
(b) Earth
Moving
Machinery  -       -       -     -       7.8   100    7.8       6.9    88
8. Consultancy
Services /5
(a) Groundwater
Directorate -      -       -     -       2.2   100    2.2      1.5    68
(b) Aerial
Survey                                  20.0   100   20.0    17.4    87
Total Project
Cost             77.3    17   45.7    10   344.6    73  467.6   262.5    56
/1   All items relate wholly to ARC except where otherwise indicated.
71   Normally 20% but 10% for small farmers in certain investments (para 5.11).
73   Shown at CIF value.  In additiop farmers would bear dealers mark-up.
74 For sale to State Government except for a small part of drilling rigs
which would be offered to private contractors.
/5   To GOI.



- 17 --
4.16      The proposed IDA credit of US$35 million (RS 262.5 million) would
finance about 56% of total Project cost and its refinance of the lending
program (Rs 218.6 million) would supply about 73% of ARC support of the
Project (Rs 298.2 million). IDA financing of the total Project cost is based
on (a) the foreign exchange cost of tractors, tractor spare parts, project
equipment and of the consultancy services, and (b) the foreign exchange
costs and one-half of the local costs of minor irrigation, land levelling
and land drainage investments. IDA financing of foreign exchange items would
amount to Rs 96.5 million (US$12.9) or 37% of its total contribution while
local currency financing would total Rs 166.0 million.
4.17      The IDA credit would be on normal terms to GOI.  During negotia-
tions it was agreed that GOI would make the proceeds relating to the
lending program available to ARC partly repayable at the end of 9 years at
an interest rate of 5% per annum for ultimate loans not exceeding this
period (estimated to amount to about 70% of the total) or at the end of 15
years at 5-1/2% per annum for longer maturities: in each case the interest
rate would be less 1/4% per annum for prompt payment and GOI would bear the
exchange risk. ARC would on-lend the proceeds to lending banks in Tamil
Nadu (LDB and participating commercial banks) (para 5.01) at an interest
rate of 6-1/2% per annum on outstanding indebtedness and these banks would
in turn on-lend to ultimate borrowers at 9%. ARC refinancing would be
repayable in installments set to coincide approximately with collections
from ultimate borrowers. The balance of the IDA credit in respect of
Project equipment and consultancy services would be made available by GOI
to Tamil Nadu (and other States as appropriate).
D. Procurement
4.18      The execution of minor irrigation and land levelling and drainage
works would involve generally small and labor-intensive operations on
individual farms and would not therefore lend itself to international
competitive bidding. Adequate well drilling and mechanized custom serv-
ices are available within the State.
4.19      Although tractor production from the six existing Indian plants
is increasing (Annex 3), supply remains inadequate to meet India's
growing needs and accordingly all tractors under the Project, together with
an initial stock of spares, would be imported. Procurement would follow the
arrangements agreed for the Gujarat, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh credit pro-
jects and would combine bulk purchase based on farmers' demands with sales
effected through the normal dealership system. Arrangements would include
the establishment of a committee with representatives of GOI, the State
Government and ARC which would, in consultation with IDA, direct the
procurement of tractors (and other imported goods). Organizational
responsibility would rest with the State Goverment through its Department
of Agriculture working under the direction of this committee, and it would
be responsible for obtaining price quotations from overseas suppliers in



- 18 -
Bank member countries and Switzerland representing firms authorized to
manufacture tractors in India at the time of procurement. As of January
1971, five associated companies in Bank member countries would be eligible
to quote and this number could be increased to a maximum of 12 if further
manufacturing proposals under consideration by GOI were approved. Details
are set out in Schedule B and during negotiations it was agreed that tractor
procurement would follow these procedures.
4.20      The supply of tractor implements including trailers from Indian
manufacturers is adequate for Project requirements and although there is a
shortage of hard steel for some components GOT has stated that it will, if
necessary, import this from its own resources. Some well drilling equipment
and earth-moving machinery is manufactured in India and in each case procure-
ment would be by international competitive bidding (Indian suppliers having
a 15% preference or prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower) under the
direction of the procurement committee (para 4.19).
4.21      Initial spare parts for tractors (at 15% of the CIF value of
tractors) would be imported. Additionally it would be agreed that annually
over the succeeding four years after disbursement, GOI would make avail-
able foreign exchange for spare parts for each make of tractor imported
under the Project, equal to 10% of their CIF prices or such other percent-
age as agreed between GOI and IDA from time to time.
4.22      Owing to the shortage of sufficient experts in the country
the consultants required to advise and strengthen SGD would have to come
from outside India and foreign specialists and technical services would
also be required for the aerial photography and its interpretation.
E. Disbursements
4.23      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over three and a half years.
Against appropriate statements, disbursements would be 62% of loans for mi-
nor irrigation, 69% of loans for land levelling and 62% of loans for land
drainage investments. IDA would also make disbursements against the CIF cost
of tractors, tractor spare parts and implement components, earth-moving ma-
chinery and well-drilling equipment and the foreign exchange cost of con-
sultants and consultancy services. Because investments in land levelling,
farm mechanization, project equipment and consultancy services are tied to
specific programs and could not be extended without further appraisal, any
Project savings would be applied to minor irrigation and land drainage
schemes only. A schedule of estimated IDA disbursements is at Appendix 7-4.



- 19 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
ARC Selection and Control of Lending Banks
5.01      While the State Government has indicated intentions which would
make the LDB system acceptable for Project lending (para 3.11) some Primary
Banks may not meet required banking standards and in those areas alternative
lending arrangements through commercial banks are being worked out. At the
time of negotiations, ARC had already made considerable progress in carrying
out a survey of banking conditions within the State and in preparing detailed
proposals. Accordingly, as a condition of credit effectiveness, ARC after
consulting the State Government would inform IDA of -
(a)   the distribution and organization of all Primary Banks and
such other arrangements as will ensure to the satisfaction
of IDA the sound management, supervision and financial in-
dependence of the LDB system both as a whole and in its
parts; and
(b)   detailed banking arrangements for Project lending which
would be based on agreed criteria (Appendix 5-1) and in
such detail as would enable IDA to satisfy itself that the
criteria had been observed.
5.02      Responsibility for the implementation of the Project would there-
fore rest with the agreed lending banks at the State level under the super-
vision of ARC.  Execution of a loan agreement between GOI and ARC on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA (Schedule C) would be a condition of credit
effectiveness and subsidiary loan agreements between ARC and lending banks
on terms also set out in Schedule C would be subject to IDA approval.
Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank (LDB)
5.03      Apart from obtaining assurances on satisfactory organizational
arrangements, it is important that steps be taken which would strengthen
LDB's own management and that of Primary Banks. LDB intends to appoint a
senior agricultural economist and a water engineer to strengthen the staff
of its existing technical cadre and accordingly it was agreed at negotiations
that these appointments would be made within three months of credit effec-
tiveness. It was also agreed that LDB auditors would be subject to IDA
approval.
Procurement Executing Agency
5.04      The engineering wing of the State Government's Department of
Agriculture, which has considerable experience of procurement procedures,
would be the executing agency working under the directions of the procure-
ment committee (para 4.19). During negotiations it was agreed that the
Department would maintain separate accounts for any Project funds paid or
received, and that these would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA.



- 20 -
Lending Policies and Terms
5.05      In the absence of legislation, the control of groundwater develop-
ment in Tamil Nadu, which is essential to avoid over-exploitation and achieve
maximum economic use of remaining resources, must temporarily be effected
through lending operations. The present situation therefore requires restric-
tions on the State's banking system in making loans for minor irrigation
both within and outside the Project, which would not arise if effective legis-
lation existed, and which are necessary to reduce exemptions to the minimum.
5.06      ARC would therefore ensure that lending banks would follow policies
agreed upon with IDA and, in particular, that loans for minor irrigation
would not exceed the numbers detailed for specific areas and would conform to
the criteria applicable to each investment type (Annex A). In addition, ARC
would ensure that tractor loans would conform to agreed terms and appraisal
criteria (para 4.10): projects generally would be evaluated in terms of
incremental returns from the additional investments in accordance with evalua-
tion methods developed by ARC, appropriate to the various investment types.
Lending banks, assisted by ARC, would carry out a series of short courses to
instruct the staffs of Primary Banks and Commercial Bank branches in the
procedures and criteria applying to the Project. Assurances on these matters
were obtained at negotiations.
5.07      Lending terms (Annex C) which were agreed at negotiations, would
in all essential aspects apply equally to LDB and participating commercial
banks. However, because of the additional lending intermediary of Primary
Banks in the LDB system, it is necessary to consider detailed aspects of
lending terms relating to LDB and commercial banks separately.
LDB Lending Terms
5.08      LDB applies lower standards to its general lending than to schemes
which are refinanced by ARC; these variations are emphasized by differences
in financial terms between the two categories. Wherever possible ARC seeks
to eliminate these differences and bring lending standards generally in line
with its own requirements. The Project would extend this process in Tamil
Nadu at the same time bringing about some increase in lending margins, thus
strengthening Project institutions.
5.09      Interest Rates
(a) LDB's interest rate to Primaries for all lending, at pres-
ent 7-1/4% p.a. for non-ARC supported lending would be in-
creased to 7-3/4%. The additional 1/2% margin (on about
one-third of LDB's prospective lending) would help meet
additional staff costs and increase its present relatively
low profits.



- 21 -
(b)  The Primaries' annual interest rate to final borrowers, at
present 8-1/4% on general lending and 8-3/4% on ARC schemes,
would be increased to a standard 9%, the overall rise of
1/4% providing an increased margin against higher staff
costs. Primaries would further benefit from a 1/2% evalu-
ation fee on investment cost to be applied to all loans.
Details of LDB's present and proposed interest rates are given in Annex 8.
The agreed rates are the same as those applying under the existing IDA
supported agricultural credit projects.
5.10      Collateral.  LDB's collateral requirements are at present 75% of
the value of land for minor irrigation and farm mechanization investments
(50% other investments) under general lending and, in the case of ARC
schemes, 50%. of the developed value of land for all investment purposes.
Under the Project, all collateral requirements would be standardized on the
latter ARC position. This would have the general effect of slightly in-
creasing farmers' borrowing capacity without a significant reduction in
security which would remain adequate.
5.11      Down-Payments and Maturities
(a)  The 5% share subscription to a Primary Bank is, in effect,
the only down-payment which a farmer makes towards the cost
of his LDB-financed investment. Under the Project, down-
payments for normal lending operations would be 20% of the
cost of all investments except land drainage (10%) and tractors
and well drilling equipment (25%). Loan repayments would be
ten years, including two years' grace, for land levelling
(at present 12 years) and land drainage investments; nine
years for tubewells and dugwells (now up to 15 years), seven
years for tractors (eight years), filter points and pump
sets and five years for drilling equipment. These down-
payments, which would include the contribution to Primary
Bank shares and would also, in many cases, partly take the
form of the farmers' own labor, should be within the resources
of such prospective borrowers who can make sound economic use
of proposed investments. Similarly, financial returns from
investments (para 6.05) would enable repayments to be made
within the proposed periods. Terms and conditions are de-
signed to contribute to the mobilization of resources and
thus ultimately benefit more farmers.
(b)  It is recognized, however, that some small farmers may have
difficulty in finding the full proposed down-payment and
accordingly, for minor irrigation investments not exceeding
a cost of Rs 10,000 each, down-payments would be reduced to
10%, while for these investments and land levelling invest-
ments, maturities would be extended up to 15 years. ARC has
prepared criteria for the definition of small farmers which,



- 22 -
where appropriate, ARC would apply on a scheme basis as
part of its regular appraisal procedures. Lending banks
would thus be given specific definitions of small farmers
in each area according to local circumstances. The
proposils would be subject to IDA agreement as part of
the subsidiary loan agreements.
Commercial Banks' Lending Terms
5.12      As a condition of participation, commercial banks would be required
to conform to all the relevant lending terms and conditions which would apply
to LDB. In particular, they would also lend at 9% per annum and with ARC re-
finance at about 6-1/2% their margin would similarly be 2-1/2% per annum: they
would also charge and retain the 1/2% evaluation fee. Commercial banks are
already applying the same or more stringent lending terms to their similar
lending operations outside the Project and it is therefore unnecessary to
require them to make any changes in this respect.
5.13      Because the numbers of many of the proposed minor irrigation in-
vestment items are close to the maximum that may be safely undertaken within
known groundwater resources, it was agreed that ARC would require of all
commercial banks that, apart from the Project program, they may not lend
for minor irrigation in Project areas and that outside these areas, each
such proposed investment must receive a certificate of nonobjection from
SGD. Although RBI has the necessary statutory powers to support these
requirements, it is reluctant to give formal directions and ARC has on
previous occasions secured similar objectives by informal notice.
5.14      Participating commercial banks would be required to keep separate
accounts for Project operations and these would be audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENFFITS
Production
6.01      The proposed Project investments would lead to an estimated in-
crease in cropped area, due to intensification, of about 60,000 ha of which
about 45,000 ha would be attributable to minor irrigation (Appendix 9-3).
About a further 150,000 ha would benefit from improved farming conditions.
These in turn would lead to a considerable expansion of production, in
particular of about 280,000 tons of food crops (mainly rice and maize) and
certain commercial crops of which 400,000 tons of sugar cane (about 30,000
tons of raw sugar) and 20,000 tons of oilseeds would be the most important.
In addition, the application of Project criteria for other minor irrigation
development would bring about a more extensive and efficient use of ground-
water resources generally in Tamil Nadu and assisted by other improved in-
puts, thus further increase production.



- 23 -
Marketing
6.02      As Tamil Nadu is marginally deficient in rice and most other food
crops, it is expected that the Project's incremental food production would
mainly be consumed within the State while the incremental production of com-
mercial crops would partly be retained and the balance sold to other States
or exported. Most food crops and some commercial crops are marketed through
the State's Cooperative Marketing Federation which operates through a net-
work of 130 primary marketing societies. The State Warehousing Corporation
is currently increasing storage capacity.
6.03      With 6,500 rice mills in Tamil Nadu, most of which are owned and
operated by cooperatives, installed capacity is adequate to meet expected
production increases and attention is now being focused on improving pro-
cessing quality. Of the 10 sugar factories, 5 are owned by cooperatives and
with recent extensions and additions they are adequate to meet the Project's
expected incremental production.
Prices
6.04      India plans to become self-sufficient in food grains within this
decade and although it remains GOI's policy to encourage agricultural pro-
duction through price support, a decline in the prices of some agricultural
commodities must be expected. Predicted world market prices (1976) 1/ vary
considerably from those now paid to Indian farmers with sugar at 15% and
maize and sorghum at 34% above world market levels:  on the other hand, the
price of rice currently paid to Tamil Nadu farmers is about 13% below pre-
dicted world market prices. It would, however, be unrealistic to expect
that the prices of crops which it is now expected would be produced under the
Project would evenly reach world market levels without other compensatory
factors (e.g. changes in cropping patterns) taking effect. Accordingly, to
meet uncertainties over future price (and cost) fluctuations, the Project's
financial and economic rates of return have been tested against percentage
changes in prices, yields and investment costs (paras 6.05 and 7.02).
Farmers' Benefits
6.05      On the basis of investment costs, estimated yields and present
prices, detailed in six models (Appendix 9-1), farm incomes, excluding the
wages of family labor but after debt service, based on normal lending terms
(para 5.11), would increase as follows:
1/   The assumed world market prices are those projected by the Trade Poli-
cies and Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economics Department.



- 24 -
Model              I        II        ITT        IV          V        VI
Type                                                                 Tractor
of             Filter  Shallow      Deep    Energized   Land         and 3
Investment          Point   Tubewell  Tubewell  Dug Well  Levelling Implements
Area          Irrigated Irrigated Irrigated Irrigated Irrigated Irrigated
Cultivated           5 ha     10 ha      10 ha     5 ha       5 ha      15 ha
Investment            RS       Rs         Rs        Rs         Rs        Rs
Cost              9,000    22,500    30,000    12,000    10,000    38,000
Net Income:
At Present        1,908     3,815      2,520       545        340    16,830
At Full Devel-
opment         5,468    10,935    14,520       5,215      7,315    33,305
Increment         3,560     7,120    12,000      4,670      6,975    16,475
Debt Service
(Interest and
Principal)   1,430      3,002     4,003      1,601      1,445     5,663
Increment after
debt service   2,130      4,118      7,997     3,069      5,530    10,812
These illustrative types of farm enterprise, (which are based on area cul-
tivated and not necessarily the size of farm holdings), show that substan-
tial increases in the net incomes of such farmers, or groups of farmers,
would result from the proposed investments when combined with the use of
improved seeds, fertilizers, assured water supply and other annual inputs
at levels which can reasonably be expected. On moderately well managed
farms, the financial rate of return is estimated at present prices and
costs to range from 30% to 272 for minor irrigation investments and to be
about 46% in the case of land levelling and 30% in the case of farm mechan-
ization investments (Appendix 9-2). If both the net incremental value of
production was to drop by 20% (e.g. because of a drop in yields and/or prices)
and investment costs rise by 20% (e.g. because of an increase in tractor
prices), the financial rates of return would range between 34% (for land
levelling) and 15% (for farm mechanization). These sensitivity tests show
that returns should provide sufficient incentive to farmers to engage in
the proposed investments.
6.06      Farmers at present pay only a minimal fixed land revenue tax which
is not related to farmers' actual net income and the Project would not,
therefore, generate any direct tax to be collected from incremental income.
Indirect tax benefits would accrue to GOI and the State Government through
sales taxes levied on tractors and machinery, estimated to be worth about
Rs 6 million. Lesser revenue would be derived from other indirect taxes and
through corporation tax payable by institutions involved in the Project.
The limitation on subsidies for well installation and their removal for
drilling under Project minor irrigation investments alone would bring a
total saving to the State Government of some Rs 10 million.



- 25 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would benefit at least 50,000 Tamil Nadu farmers and
would increase the cropped area by about 60,000 ha. There would be two
direct benefits to the Indian economy. First, a higher cropping intensity
would increase the production of foodgrains and other commercial crops (para
6.01). Second, higher yields would be obtained by applying irrigation fa-
cilities and, through farm mechanization, timely cultivation practices so
making the optimum use of available improved and high-yielding seed varieties
and fertilizers. Since yields would be less dependent on annual rainfall,
production would not fluctuate so widely as in the past. With import substi-
tution and some export earnings (para 6.02), increased gross Project produc-
tion, estimated to be worth US$29 million equivalent annually at full pro-
duction and present prices, would bring considerable benefits to India's for-
eign exchange reserves.
7.02      At predicted world market prices and using the official exchange
rate of US$1.00 to Rs 7.50 the overall rate of return to the economy would be
28% (Appendix 10-3). Using a rate of exchange which reflects more closely
the effective cost of imports (which normally bear a duty of 27.5%) the rate
of return increases to 34%. In order to meet uncertainties over future price
fluctuations (para 6.04) and provide for possible increases in costs, the
Project's economic rate of return (at the official exchange rate) has been
tested against percentage changes in prices, yields and investment costs.
If investment cost was to increase by 20% and the net incremental value of
production fall by 20%, the economic rate of return would be 17%, which would
still be satisfactory.
7.03      In calculating Project returns, no account has been taken of the
important benefits which would accrue from the increased knowledge and im-
proved use of groundwater resources throughout Tamil Nadu. The new minor
irrigation appraisal methods and criteria which would be introduced could,
in part, provide the framework for improved groundwater exploitation in
other Indian states and they thus constitute a significant technical innova-
tion. Other secondary benefits would be the incremental production from
tractor farm custom work, crop processing, the strengthening of lending
institutions and the re-investment of farmers' income in agriculture, while
double cropping would create more jobs for farm workers. Though not quan-
tifiable, these factors would enhance the Project's already adequate economic
justification.



- 26 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the following main assurances were
obtained:
(1)  minor irrigation investments would be limited to the areas
specified and would conform to the agreed criteria and
appraisal techniques (para 4.04) and, additionally, the
State Government would support the implementation of such
criteria and techniques for all groundwater developmient
under its direct or indirect control (para 4.03);
(2)  internationally recruited consultants would be appointed
to strengthen the operations of SGD within three months
of the date of credit effectiveness (para 4.12);
(3)  contracts with consultants for the aerial survey of Tamil
Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Mysore would be
executed by March 31, 1972 (para 4.13).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be:
(1)  the withdrawal of direct subsidies for well installation
except for small farmers organized in groups (para 4.05);
(2)  the introduction by the State Government of rates for
mechanized land levelling custom services sufficient to
cover all costs and provide a small surplus (para 4.05);
(3)  an initial staffing of SGD acceptable to IDA (para 4.12);
(4)  ARC informing IDA of -
(a) the distribution and organization of LDB Primary
Banks and such other arrangements as will ensure
to the satisfaction of IDA, the sound management,
supervision and financial independence of the LDB
system both as a whole and in its parts;
(b) detailed banking arrangements in accordance with
agreed criteria (para 5.01);
(5) the execution of a loan agreement between GOI and ARC
acceptable to IDA (para 5.02).
8.03      The proposed Project is suitable for IDA assistance of US$35
million under usual IDA terms.
May 14, 1971



SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION -- PROGRAM, LENDING REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
1. INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Filter Point and Tubewell Investments
1.   (A)  Thanjavur District
(i)  Taluks:  Thanjavur (North), Papanasam, Mayuram,
Nannilam, Kumbakonam, Shyali.
Area description: Cauvery sub-basin.
Investments: 5,000 filter points
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
1,000 shallow tubewells (depth 50m).
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(ii)  Taluks:  Mannargudi, Tirutturaipurdi, Nabappattinam.
Area description: Vennar sub-basin (Vadapadimangalam
aquifer).
Investments: 2,000 filter points
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(iii)  Taluks:  as listed under (i) and (ii) above.
Investments: 4,000 electric pump sets
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(iv) Taluks: Orattandu, Pattukkottai.
Area description: New Delta sub-basin (Salyamangalam
aquifer) .
Investments: 90 medium tubewells (depth 60 m)
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(B) Tiruchirappalli District
(i) Taluk: Alangudi, Udayiarpalayam.
Area description: Miocene sands.
Investments:  50 medium tubewells (depth 70 m).
Pump: 15 hp submersible or turbine (guideline)
(ii) Taluk: Udayarpalayam
Area description: Miocene sands
Investments: 60 medium tubewells (depth 70 m)
Pump: 15 hp submersible or turbine (guideline)



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
(iii) Taluks: Perambalur, Lalgudi, Musiri, Tiruchirappalli,
Kulitalai.
Area description: crystalline rock.
Investments:  300 shallow tubewells (depth 50 m).
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal placed in pit (guideline).
(C) South Arcot District
(i) Taluk: Chlidambaram.
Area description: Vellar/Coleroon alluvium reservoir.
Investments:  2,500 shallow tubewells (depth 50 m).
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(ii) Taluk: Cuddalore.
Area description: Panruti.
Investments:  500 medium tubewells (depth 100 m).
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal placed in pit (guideline).
Dugwell Development
2.   (A)  Chingleput District
Taluks:  Kancheepuram, Madurantagam, Chingleput.
(B) Dharmapuri District
Taluks:  Dharmapuri, Hosur, Harur, Krishnagiri, Uttangiri.
(C) North Arcot District
Taluks: Tirurannamalai, Chengam, Vellore, Gudiyattam, Tirupattur.
(D) Salem District
Taluks:  Sankari, Tiruchengode, Omalur, Mettur, Rasipuram.
Area description: crystalline rock.
Investments: in new dugwells and the improvement and energizing
of existing dugwells to a total value not exceeding
Rs 125 million.
Pumps: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
HI. GENERAI, LENDING REQUIREMENTS
3.        Technical requirements applying to all Project minor irrigation in-
vestments as a condition of lending:



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
(A) Pump-size and Instant Discharge
Each tubewell, filter point and dugwell will be equipped
with suitable pumps with a minimum of 5 hp in order to
obtain a minimum instant discharge of 10 1/second as a
condition of irrigation efficiency.
(B)  Spacing of Tubewells and Filter Points in Sedimentary Areas
(i) The minimum distance between a tubewell or a filter point
and any other energized well will be determined for each
different groundwater reservoir by the Theis formula apply-
ing an annual minimum withdrawal of 130,000 M3 for a tubewell
and 70,000 M3 for a filter point and a maximum drawdown of
6 m. The application of this formula would result in a
spacing range 500 m to 1,000 m for tubewells and 200 m to
600 m for filter points.
(ii) In order to obtain a good use of irrigation water and reduce
the risk of flooding, lending banks will endeavor to apply as an
appraisal criterion the irrigation of a minimum of 10 ha for
each tubewell and 5 ha for each filter point.
(C) Spacing of Dugwells and Tubewells in Crystalline Areas
(i) The minimum distance between dugwells and tubewells will
be determined by the application of the following formula:
lRmm   r%    ha
R  c  . A
- 100
mm
r
m
where:    S  - distance between wells in meters.
R   - annual watering of irrigated land in mm.
mm
r   5 annual recharge, in millimeters, to groundwater
from rainfall, seepage from canals and tanks,
return from irrigation occurring in the likely
recharge area of the well, to be calculated
from field observations on water level fluctua-
tions, run-off gauging and soil retention ob-
tained from small representative basins installed
in the areas of the Project under the responsi-
bility of the State Groundwater Directorate.
c    cropping intensity.
A   - minimum economic area to be irrigated by one well.



SCHEDULE A
Page 4
(ii) In order to obtain a good use of irrigation water and reduce
the risk of flooding, lending banks will endeavor to apply
as an appraisal criterion the irrigation of a minimum of 10
ha for each tubewell and 5 ha for each dugwell, the latter
based on a discharge of 180 M3/day.
4.        In addition, the following conditions would apply to all the above
proposed investments:
(a) If adequate irrigation and drainage channels did not already exist
on farms to benefit from the proposed investment, the provision of
such facilities would be a condition of a loan and could be in-
cluded in the project financing.
(b) No energized wells would be installed within six miles of the
coast.
(c) All proposed minor irrigation investments would require a certifi-
cate of non-objection from the State Groundwater Directorate be-
fore a loan was made.
III. GUIDELINES FOR ORGANIZATION AND APPRAISAL PROCEDURES
Organization
5.   (a)  Insofar as it would not be incompatible with the responsibilities
of ARC under the Project as the refinancing agency, the State
Groundwater Directorate (SCD) would exercise advisory control over
Project minor irrigation development. It would work through two
divisions (DSGD's): one situated in and covering the districts of
Thanjavur, Tiruchirapalli and South Arcot in which the filter
point and tubewell investments would be located, the other situated
in and covering the districts of Chingleput, Dharmapuri, North
Arcot and Salem in which dugwell development would be located.
(b) DSGD's would establish and maintain a census grid map (1:63,000)
of their respective areas. They would issue to lending banks
copies of the grid maps covering areas within their lending au-
thority. They would guide and coordinate the activities of bank
appraisal teams working in their areas but would not be responsible
for staffing such teams which remain a banking function assisted
as appropriate by the cooperative department and technical depart-
ments of the State Government.
General Procedures
6.   (a)  Lending banks would advertise, seeking applications for loans and
setting out lending terms and an explanation of appraisal methods.



SCHEDULE A
Page 5
Invitations for applications could be staggered according to
taluk or block.
(b)  A bank appraisal team, normally consisting of a supervisor of the
lending bank, a valuation officer and a technical officer (engi-
neer or geologist), would visit applicants' farms on a group basis
and in the course of appraisal would sketch on an appraisal map
(scale 1:10,000), within the areas prescribed in (3) below, the
following:
(i)  all existing wells, showing whether they were energized or
not, and, if energized, whether by electricity or diesel
power;
(ii)  farms and area (ha) served by each such well;
(iii) the well sites proposed for installation or electrification;
(iv)  farm(s) (with owners' name(s)) to be irrigated by proposed
wells;
(v)  electricity lines;
(vi)  proposed irrigation channels or pipes to be installed/improved
for distribution from proposed wells.
(c)  The areas to be covered by the sketch maps would be, from the pro-
posed well:
(i) for filter points and filter point electrificiation, 600 m
radius;
(ii) for tubewells, 1,000 m radius;
(iii) for dugwell development, 600 m radius.
(d)  In addition, dugwell development appraisal would be assessed
against the estimated groundwater resources of elementary water-
sheds and these watersheds would be the basic unit of group ap-
praisal. Calculations of groundwater recharge would be based
on estimated amounts of rainfall, runoff, evapotranspiration and
soil moisture parameters supported by a qualitative analysis
of factors such as gradients, soil structures, vegetation and
surface water storage. DSGD would be responsible for demarcating
the approximate limits of these watersheds and of groundwater
reservoir boundaries. In assessing groundwater resources, the
appraisal team would in particular consider:
(i) the probability of an instant discharge of 36 M3/hour as a
minimum requirement being obtained from the proposed develop-
ment;



SCHEDULE A
Page 6
(ii)  the probable extent of the weathering of crystalline hard
rock in the area of the proposed development;
(iii)  whether irrigation purposes would be better achieved by the
installation of a new well, which should generally not exceed
an investment of Rs 12,000 or by the improvement of an exist-
ing well, at a cost generally not exceeding Rs 5,000, by
energizing an existing well or by extending the use of water
discharged from existing wells.
(e)  Proposed tubewell investments would be subject to individual fi-
nancial appraisal; all other proposed minor irrigation investments
would be subject to standardized pro-forma financial appraisal.
All appraisals would specifically include proposals on whether:
(i)  there was to be a group loan to farmers who would receive
water from the proposed development;
(ii)  the owner(s) would enter into an agreement to sell water to
other farmers other than borrowers;
(iii)  there would be other cooperative ownership arrangements.
(f)  Lending banks would submit to the appropriate DSGD a copy of the
sketch map with relevant information and recommendations. DSGD
would enter the information on its census grid map.
(g)  DSGD would issue a certificate of non-objection to the lending
bank where it was satisfied that the proposed investment was tech-
nically feasible and conformed to the technical criteria.
(h)  DSGD would physically check all doubtful cases and, in addition,
10% of all recommended applications.
(i)  On receipt of the DSGD's certificate of non-objection, lending
banks would complete loan formalities in the usual way and where ap-
propriate documentation would include an agreement for the sale of
water.
IV. LENDING CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES APPLYING TO
SIMILAR INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE THE PROJECT
7.        The following requirements would apply to all similar investments
outside the Project:
(a) Within the Project areas, no loans to minor irrigation would be
made outside the Project program by LMB or any commercial bank or
agency within the direct or indirect control of the State Govern-
ment.



SCHEDULE A
Page 7
(b) Outside the Project areas, LDB, all commercial banks and any agency
within the direct or indirect control of the State Government
would:
(i)  in making loans for filter points, filter point energization
and tubewells, conform to the appraisal procedures, criteria
specifications and water use specified by SGD. In no case
should water from such wells irrigate less than 10 ha. This
requirement would apply from Project effectiveness; and
(ii)  in making loans for dugwell development, conform to the ap-
praisal procedures and criteria as set out for the Project
from one year after the date of Credit effectiveness.
May 12, 1971






SCHEDULE B
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT
A. Tractors
1.        The Project now proposed would be the fifth of a series of agricul-
tural credit projects in India, all of which include some IDA financing for
tractors. The procurement policy set out below substantially follows the
tractor procurement arrangements agreed with the Government of India (GOI)
for the previous projects. Its purpose is to combine the advantages of farm-
ers' choice with quantity discounts through bulk purchasing and effect sales
through the normal dealership system. In view of India's shortage of foreign
exchange it would be inappropriate to liberalize tractor import licensing and
the limitation on the suppliers eligible to bid would avoid a proliferation
of tractor makes and types.
2.        Details of tractor procurement would be as follows:
(a) GOI would establish a central committee (hereinafter referred
to as the Committee) for the purpose of directing the procure-
ment of goods under the Project. The Committee would consist
of representatives of GOI (one of whom would be chairman),
the Government of Tamil Nadu and the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (ARC). The State Government, as executing agent,
under the directions of the Committee would organize the pro-
curement of tractors and other imported goods required for the
Project.
(b) The executing agent would obtain tractor quotations on unit
prices at varying quantities from suppliers in Bank member
countries and Switzerland who at the time of bidding were
authorized to manufacture tractors in India. Currently these
are Eicher (Federal Republic of Germany), Ford (U.K.) Inter-
national Harvester (USA), and Massey Ferguson (U.K.) with
plants in production and Kloekner Humboldt (Federal Republic
of Germany) with a plant for manufacture of the Deutz tractor
approved by GOI. Further companies may be expected to be added
to the list as GOI is now considering seven additional proposals
from firms in Bank member countries. GOI would notify IDA of
the firms eligible at the time of each invitation to bid.
Quotations would be sought by public invitation and the form
and substance of bid requests would be subject to IDA concurrence.



SCHEDULE B
Page 2
(c)  The executing agent would require all suppliers submitting
quotations to give full particulars on proposed pre-sales
and after sales service arrangements, including provision
for spare parts equal to 15% of the CIF price of tractors
supplied. Any supplier not providing satisfactory assur-
ances on service arrangements would, subject to IDA con-
currence, be disqualified by the Committee.
(d)  The executing agent would advertise through Project lending
banks in Tamil Nadu, the quoted prices and service arrange-
ments offered by different suppliers. Farmers would be re-
quired to state to the Project lending bank their first and
second choice of tractor which they would be willing to buy
and, at the same time make application for a loan.
(e) Farmers' tractor preferences would be sent to the executing
agent which would aggregate the orders received according
to first tractor choices. If the aggregate orders for the
particular model came to below the minimum acceptable order
for that manufacturer at the unit price quoted for varying
quantities, the Committee would discard the first choice
for those farmers and proceed on the basis of the second or
other choices as agreed by IDA. After approval by the Com-
mittee, the executing agent would send to IDA a statement of
farmers' choices, its analysis of bids and its recommendations
for the placing of orders. IDA would then promptly inform
the Committee whether it had any objections to the recommended
orders with its reasons.
(f) The executing agent would subsequently place orders with
the selected suppliers at the unit prices quoted. The exe-
cuting agent would also enter into contracts with the se-
lected suppliers which would specify service arrangements
and performance assurances including the supply of spare
parts. Agents representing suppliers would be required to
sell post-warranty service.
(g) The executing agent would through the suppliers' repre-
sentatives in India arrange for the importation, insurance
and transportation to Tamil Nadu of tractors. Subsequently
the tractors would be distributed to agents designated by
the suppliers who would perform pre-sales services and sell
the tractors to farmers whose loan applications had been ap-
proved.
(h) Suppliers would be required to maintain stocks of spare parts
by a designated representative in a central store for each
supplier to be released through agents for tractors imported
under the Project.



SCHEDULE B
Page 3
(i) In the event of the Committee placing orders over the reason-
able objections of IDA on the grounds of inconsistency with
the procedures or, if the terms of such orders materially dif-
fered from those of which quotations were based, IDA would re-
serve the right to cancel from the Credit, such amount as it
considered represented expenditures under such orders.
B. Other Project Equipment
3.        Well drilling equipment and earth-moving machinery as required un-
der the Project would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding, in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and Credits published by the Bank in August 1969. The Committee would
be responsible for carrying out these procedures through its executing
agent. In addition, the Committee would be responsible for ensuring that
private contractors providing well-drilling custom services were offered
about one-quarter of the well-drilling equipment for purchase.
May 12, 1971






SCHEDULE C
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1.   GOI to ARC
1)   In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
a)   interest rate of 5% per annum less 1/4% per annum
for prompt payment;
h)   repayment at the end of 9 years;
2)   In respect of ARC refinancing for 10 years and above but
not exceeding 15 years:
a)   interest rate of 5-1/2% per annum less 1/4% per annum
for prompt payment;
b)   repayment at the end of 15 years;
3)   GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.   ARC to Lending Banks (LDB and Commercial Banks)
1)   Interest rate not less than 6-1/2% per annum;
2)   Repayments in installments set to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers;
3)   Refinancing would be by way of purchase of debentures and by
loans at thie rate of 90% of individual loans for minor irriga-
tion and land drainage; 75% of individlual loans for other in-
vestment purposes.
3.   LDB to Primnary Banks
1)   Interest rate not less than 7-3/4% per annum;
2)   Repayments in installments set to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers;
3)   Loans would cover the total amount of Primary Banks' lending
to individuals.



SCHEDULE C
Page 2
4.   Primary Banks and Commercial Banks Lending to Individuals
1)   Interest rate not less than 9% per annum;
2)   A once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 1/2% of the cost of
individual project costs;
3)   Collateral:  50% of developed value of land;
4)   Downpayments:
a)   for normal lending a minimum of:
i)   10% of the cost of land drainage and soil con-
servation projects,
ii)   25% of the cost of tractor projects and well
drilling equipment,
iii)   20% of the cost of other projects including
tractor implements;
b)   for lending to small farmers, to be defined with
IDA agreement, a minimum of 10% of the cost of minor
irrigation investments costing less than Rs 10,000
each;
In all cases specified downpayments could include the cost of
the farmers' obligatory share contribution to the Primary Bank
where LDB was the lending bank.
5)   Maturities, which would not exceed the life of the asset
financed, would be:
a)   for normal lending a maximum of:
i)   9 years for tubewell, dugwell improvement loans,
ii)   10 years for land leveling and land drainage
scheme loans including two-year grace period
in which interest only would be payable,
iii)   7 years for farm mechanization, filter point and
pumpset loans;
iv)   5 years for well drilling equipment;
b)   for lending to defined small farmers a maximum of:
i)   15 years for minor irrigation loans where the
investment cost less than Rs 10,000 each,



SCHEDULE C
Page 3
ii)   15 years including two-year grace period for
land leveling.
In each case repayments would commence in the year following
the completion of the investment.
5.   Other LDB Lending Operations
LDB and Primary Banks would apply the same evaluation fee and
collateral, downpayment and maturity requirements to all their
similar lending operations and the same interest rates to all
their lending operations.
May 12, 1971






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL AADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
iv4INOR IRRIGATION
A.  Geologic and Hydrologic Conditions
1.        The State of Tamil iiadu is broadly divisible into two natural
regions.  First, the coastal plain 50-100 km wide which runs from Madras
in the North to Cape Comorin at the extreme southern tip of India and from
the Bay of Bengal to the Eastern Gihats and second, the central plateau
lying between the Lastern and Western Ghats. The topography is generally
undulating, except for the steep but not very extended Eastern Glhats which
rise to about 1,800 m above sea level. The Western Ghats, whiclh in part
form the western boundary of the State, are the watershed for the main
rivers which flow east into the Bay of Bengal and of wlhich the Cauvery is
the most important.
2.        Annual rainfall averages some 1,200 mm in the coastal plain and
about 800 mm in the central plateau. For most of the State about two-
thirds of the rainfall occurs during the Northeast monsoon which lasts from
September to December with the balance mainly falling during the June-
September Soutlhwest monsoon period: January to I-ay are generally dry
months. Temperatures range from 25°C in January to 31.50 in June. Tthe
uneven rainfall distribution when combined with a high evapotranspiration
(ETP) rate is not favorable for groundwater recharge which occurs only in
October and November when ETP is lower than rainfall.
3.        Geological conditions follow the two main natural regions.  In
the coastal plain, sedimentary formations belong to successive eras of
upper gondwara, cretaceous, tertiary and recent alluvium structures while
in the crystalline areas, which constitute three-quarters of the State's
total area, granite, gneiss, charnockite, amphibolite and quartzite rock
formations predominate.
4.        Within the sedimentary areas there are only two genuine water-bearing
aquifers. The first is in an area of tertiary sandstones centred on South-
Arcot district consisting mainly of pervious 13yers up to 6O m thick and
with a good transmissability (1.5 to 3 x 10  1  sec/m).  Properly designed
and cquipped witlh submersible or turbine pumps, tubewells nere could yield
some 90 1/sec (3 cusec) for 10-20 m drawdown.  The second occurs in recent
alluvial formations which are generally close to river channels.  This can
usefully be exploited by means of 5 m to 50 m filterpoints or shallow tube-
wells equipped with centrifugal pumps and can yield some 10 1/sec (0.3 cusec)



ANNL.& I
Page Z
for 7 m drawdown.  These alluvial formations are mainly found in South Arcot
and Thanjavur districts and notably in the Cauvery delta.  During the
last three years, a UNDP project has been carrying out a survey of ground-
water resources in many of the sedimentary areas. The project which in
November 1971 will complete its program of work with surveys at present
being carried out in the Cauvery delta, has obtained detailed information
on resources and recharge which in part provides the basis for proposed
Project investments in specific areas.
5b.       In the crystalline areas, groundwater availability is generally
poor and without any significant reservoirs. Weathering and the alluvial
process have however concentrated sufficient semi-pervious formations in
valley bottoms to provide some water resources for dug (or open) wells
10-20 m deep. Even here these wells cannot provide continuous yields and
when equipped with 3-5 hp pumps yielding 10 l/sec, the wells are generally
dried up after 3-4 hours of pumping and require 24-36 hours for recovery.
According So a sample of 184 wells in 10 taluks, 60% were yielding less
than 180 m /day (i.e. a constant discharge of 2 1/sec).  The balance re-
present wells placed in the best conditions where they ihave encountered some
fissure or fault which drain more water into the well: in many areas,
groundwater resources appear to be totally exlhausted and while the droughts
of the last two years have partly caused this, increased extraction through
extended well energization has been the main factor.
6.        Thus, throughout the crystalline areas, water bearing formations
are small and there is no groundwater flow but only an annual recharge and
discharge of small capacity reservoirs in restricted areas close to the
wiells. The rate of recharge however is niot uniform and depends on local
topography and geomorphology. While this generally applies, it is
particularly the case in the crystalline areas where there are highly
variable conditions of runoff, LIP and soil moisture.  l'Tere is therefore
little value in estimating local groundwater resources with classical
iLydrogeological analysis using average recharge empirical formulae.
Various formulae in any case provide widely varying results and tihe
application of five currently in use in India give a recharge rate varying
from 18 to 270 mm, against a rainfall of 877 m.  In the semimentary areas
where the parameters are in closer related proportions application of thle
formulae produce more reliable results: against a rainfall of 1,285 mm the
range of recharge is from 200-313 mm.  In the crystalline areas of Tamil
I.adu it is therefore, not possible to make an assessment of groundwater
resources over wide areas: such assessments must be based on an accurate
analysis of hydrolo§ic processes within elementary watersheds (which may
vary from 10--100 km ).
B. Present Groundwater Lxploitation and Use
7.        W4ith limited scope for the extension of surface irrigation schemes,
the State Government continues to give priority to the development of minor



AAA'EX 1
Page 3
irrigation. Between 1961 and 1969, the total number of irrigation wells of
all types increased from 910,000 to just over 1 million and of these,
about 425,000 are now energized by electricity: some 25% of the total
energy consumed in the State is by agricultural pumpsets. Of the total
well population, tubewells (about 2,000) and filterpoints (about 10,000)
are relatively insignificant and are concentrated almost exclusively in
the sedimentary areas of rhanjavur, Tiruchirappalli and South Arcot districts.
'1'ihe balance of nearly 1 million dugwells are located mainly in tile crystalline
areas thouglh with a significant number (perhaps 100,000) providing
supplementary irrigation in the Cauvery delta.
3.        With a general slhortage of groundwater resources in 'iamil iiadu,
the State's greatest need is to make the optimum use of such resources as
are available, not only from prospective investments uut from wells which
are already installed. Thie present situation reveals a serious under-
utilization and waste of water resources and consequent over-capitalization
in wells. The causes are miany but predominant are the prevalence of small
farm-holdings and farmers unwillingness to enter into water sharing arrange-
ments, inadequate irrigation channels, excessive water application,
inappropriate cropping patterns and sub-economic well establishiment and
operating costs. !iost stem from an almost total lack of water management
and control.
9.        Taking the State as a whole, 640,000 ha (or 25% of the total
irrigated area) is now watered by wells representing 0.64 na per well.
W4hile many of these wells can be expected to be yielding very small
quantities of water, the areas irrigated by more economic wells is still
very unsatisfactory. Statistics relating to the 184 sample wells referred
to in para 5 above show than an average of three times the present area
could be irrigated by the stated discharge while the lhigher yielding wells
could irrigate four times and more. These figures tend to confirm the view
that where water is relatively plentiful, as in parts of the Cauvery delta,
the farm size structure militates against economic usage. In investment
terms, taking a low average cost of Rs 5,000 for a non-energized dugwell
(many have cost over Rs 20,000 each), the average cost per irrigated ha is
Rs 8,3(0 (or US$1,100) and this increases to Rs 10,0(0 per ha (US$1,330)
if existing electric pump sets and connection are added (but excluding
electricity generation and transmission investments). ilowever while over-
investment (and the danger of it being perpetuated) is itself a serious
problem, the continued underutilization of irrigation water could have more
serious economic and social conseqtuences. Unless appropriate measures are
taken, large numbers of farmers, and particularly small farmers, will
unnecessarily be excluded from the benefits of irrigation.
lo.       At present no legislation exists in India to control the
exploitation of groundwater thouglh model legislation is being prepared by
the central government with a view to eventual enactment by thle States. It
is doubtful whether Tamil i4adu would pass such legislation before thie end of
1972 but the State Covernment is prepared to introduce alternative methods



ANLi4EA 1
Page 4
of control through administrative and lending procedures.  While sucii
measures would fall short of the comprehensive control wilichi essentially is
required, they could go a long way towards correcting the present situation
and prepare the way for effective legislation later. iHowever, in order to
achieve thie widest possible control, the inclusion of minor irrigation
development in the Project must be dependent on the strict application of
agreed lending criteria not only for Project investments but also for all
minor irrigation development in Tamil Nadu within direct or indirect
governmental control.  This would include lending or financing by all banks
mad by the State Government and its agencies.
C.  Outline of Proposed Groundwater Development
and Control
LI.       The minor irrigation investments proposed under thl  Project fall
into two clearly defined categories. In the first are 7,000 filterpoints,
3,800 shallow, 760 medium tubewells and the electric energization of 4,000
existing filterpoints which, except for one location, are located in the
sedimentary areas of Tihanjavur, Tirucliirappalli and South Arcot uistricts.
Because the amount of groundwater in each of the aquifers to be exploited
has been quantified, it is necessary to specify the number of wells to be
established in each location and the spacing between wells in order to avoid
groundwater mining.  ihe specification of areas to be irrigated by each well
is essential to ensure the maximum use of scarce resources and reduce the
risk of flooding.  Jetails of the proposed program (which also tale into
account banking and proceedural constraints) together with lending criteria
are set out in Schedule A and the discharge effect of each vategory of
Investment on individual aquifers is detailed in Appendix 1-1.
12.       The second category of investments would be in dugwells and
clugwell improvement and energization and would be located in the crystalline
areas of the four nortlhern districts of Cniingleput, Dharmapuri,  iJorth Arcot
ard Salem. For reasons discussed in paras 5 and 6 above, present infor-
mation on groundwater resources in these areas is inadequate to detail a
specific number of investments in various areas, and investments would there-
fore have to le identified by new appraisal methods discussed in para 15
below. Overall however groundwater resources should be sufficient to
support investments in these items to the extent of i's 125 million over the
Project period: this is about equivalent to 10,000 new energized dugwells
but, depending on the result of the appraisals investments would also
iLnclude dugwell improvement and energization. Lending criteria are
siimilarly specified in Schedule A.
13.       Generally, lending criteria are designed to minimize the risk of
over-exploitation and maximize water use. To ensure the first it is
necessary to specify well spacing which is essential to recharge and
controlled draw-down:  it has the secondary purpose of creating a well
cdistribution which would encourage maximum utilization of irrigation.



ANMAL, I
Page 5
because most of tbe aquifers in the se(limentary areas niave limited ground-
water reserves, well dischlarge is also critical and this can be best
controlled by specifying the type of pump and its horse-power. As in the
case of filterpoints, most tubewells in lamil i4adu hlave a discharge of only
10 1/sec (0.3 cusec) because with few exceptions, only centrifugal pumps are
at present used. Subject to groundwater resources, discharge could techni-
cally be increased considerably by the use of submersible or turbine pumps
though economic advantages only become significant wlhere the discharge exceeds
30 1/sec and the area irrigated more than 30 ha. On the other hIand, there
is sufficient evidence to show that, because of the small size of farms, a
higher instant discharge would either lead to excess watering or the use of
the tubewell over shorter periods and would thus not result in the irrigation
of larger areas. Accordingly, on the assumption that 10 ha is probably the
maximum area that can be grouped for effective irrigation from a single tube-
well, the Project would provide that all tubewells would have a peak instant
discharge of 10 1/sec only and most wells would be equipped with centrifugal
pumps. 1/ Priority is thus accorded to the maximum utilization of water
resources rather than the technical capacity of wells. On this basis all
filter points and tubewells would be capable of providing irrigation to at
least 10 ha. Itowever, because of the particular problem of farm size in the
Cauvery delta, the minimum area to be irrigated by filter points (which cost
less than tubewells) could reasonably be reduced to 5 hla. While the discharge
of Project tubewells could in most cases be increased, this should only be
done where an appropriate increase in land to be irrigated is assured
(20-30 ha for 30 1/sec discharge) and on most aquifers, this would necessitate
a reduction in the number of wells to be installed to avoid over-exploitation.
With the specified minimum water use for each investment, the Project would
provide complete or supplementary irrigation to about 150,000 lha of whichi
100,000 ha would be attributable to filter point and tubewell investments and
the balance to dugwells.
D.  Detailed Features of Proposed Investments
Filter Points and Tubewells
14.       (1)  Thanjavur District
(a) Of the areas proposed for filterpoint and tubewell
development, thIe Cauvery delta in ilnanjavur District is
the most complex. Miost of the delta comes within the
Cauvery irrigation sclheme, which through a network of
rivers and channels distributes seasonal irrigation
water after its release from the drettur dam.  This
scheme is in urgent need of rehabilitation and repair
and for this purpose IDA appraised in October 1969 a
proposal for the integrated development of surface
and groundwater thiat included the installation of
8,000 new filterpoints and the electrification of 3,000
1/   For technical reasons, tubewell investments in the Miocene Sands of
Thanjavur and Tliruchirappalli districts should be equipped with
submersible or turbine pumps. Wells in these areas are not technically
capable of an instant dischlarge of above 10 I/sec.



lviii  i
Page o
existing filterpoints over five years. These
investments would have been so distributed as to
ensure maximum water use. owing to a subsequent dispute
between 'lamil Nadu and Iysore over the use of thie
Cauvery waters, the proposed credit iaas niot been
negotiated and, as thiere is no sign of early settlement
of thie dispute, the project is unlikely to proceed in
thie near future. Within the delta it woul.d still be
preferable to undertake a sclheme wthicth would integrate
surface and groundwater and this must remairn a hign
priority. liowever, as thle dispute does not affect
groundwater alone it would be possible to undertake
some well development without prejudicing this ultimate
objective.  It is however important tilat any separate
oroposals for groundwater development should nIOt add to
the substantial flooding problems wiiich are a feature
of the area. This can be done by a proper spacing of wells,
some localized improvement of irrigation cihannels anid
improved water use.
(b)  Water is released from the Hlettur Dam in late June each
year and surface irrigation countinues until about
December. Supplementary well water thus permits the
earlier establishment (in iHay) of paddy nurseries for a
first crop which can be lharvested before the onset of
September monsoon, at present the cause of considerable
damage to standing crops. Thereafter a second crop,
assisted by supplementary water at the year end can be
grown as well as a third (dry) crop during the period
January-April. This practice is now followed in areas
served by supplementary irrigation but it accounts for
only 30% of the scheme area of 600,000 ha.
(c)  The Cauvery delta comprises three main aquifers;   LLhe
Cauvery sub-basin of 200,000 ha (which would have been
the approximate area of the IDA Cauvery project) with3
relatively plentiful groundwater supplies (1,300 10 I1
on a drawdown of 5 m), the Venpar sub-basin (180,000 na)
with limited resources (260 10 M ) and the Jew Delta
Pliocgns reservoir (200,000 ha) witih poor capacity
(5 10 H ). Project investments would be 5,000 filter-
points and 1,000 shallow tubewells in th-e Cauvery
sub-basin (in some areas aquifer conditions are suitable
for shallow tubewells but not filterpoints), 2,000
filterpoints in the Vennar sub-basin and '30 medium
tubewells in the iiew uelta area:  most of tLhe 4,000
electric pump investments would energize existing filter-
points (or replace old diesel pumps) in the Cauvery
sub-basin with a few going to the Vennar sub-basin.



Annex 1
Page 7
Witlh the specified water use, these investments
would provide supplementary irrigation to an
additional. area of about 65,)0() hta.
(d)  (utside the Cauvery delta to the west of the grand
annicut (barrage) is an area of iniocene sands on the
Orattanadu aquifer wihichI also overlaps into liruchi-
rappalli district (see (2)(a) below). uWitlh a con-
servatively estimated capacity of 5 13 M3, this
aquifer is adequate to supply 90 medium Lubewells
equipped with submersible or turbine pumps for a
maximum drawdown of 20 m. LaclE well would provide
sole irrigation to 10 na.
(2)  Tiruchirappalli District
(a)  As part of the Cauvery delta geologic area, the out-
cropping Miocene sands in Puddukotai area of Alangudi
taluk and in Udayigrpllayam taluk contain adequate
groundwater (14 10 r1 for a maximum drawdown of 20 m)
to justifv the installation of a small number of muedium
tubewells. iHydrogeological conditions in thiese two
areas3are poor and well discharge is generally low (200-
300 m /day). A program of 50 tubewells, equipped with
submersible or turbine pumps, in Alangudi taluk and 60
in Ldayiarpalayam taluk should be carefully sited by
a geologist: maximum instant disclharge should be about
10 1/sec §iving an annual discharge of not more tilan
120,000 M adequate to provide conmplete irrigation to 10 iia.
(b)  Trial borings in some crystalline areas hiave inldicated
potential for 300 shallow tubewells. To reduce risks
however, eachi proposed tubewell should be individually
appraised by a geologist who would report on the extent
of weathering, faulting and fissuring. No tubewell
should be drilled in hard granite rock and the well
should only be developed if tests indicate a minimum
insta9t disclharge of 10 l/sec and daily discharge of
200 m , adequate to provide complete irrigation to 10 iha.
Laclh of thiese tubewells should be equipped with a
centrifugal pump whichi would be placed in a pit near to
the groundwater level.
(3) Soutlh Arcot district
(a)  The alluvium reservoir between the Vellar and Cglsroon
rivers in Chidambaram taluk is capable of 72 10 li
annual disclharge. About 18,000 ha (7,000 lha of double
cropping) in this area is at present served with
seasonal surface irrigation from the large Veenaram
tank and there should be no difficulty in executing a



Ai'JaIX 1
Page 8
program of 2,5)0 shallow tubewells, 20 to 3() m
dSep, each givinlg an annual disclharge of about 23,000
It adequate to provide supplementary irrigation required
for 10 ha.
(b)  Tlhe Panruti area in Guddalore taluk between the
Neyvelli mine and tlhe Ponnaiyar river has groundwater
resou6c5s capable of an additional discharge of
70 10 M on an average drawdown of 5 meters: it ikas
good hydrodynamic characteristics. A program of 50O
medium tuiewells would each htave an annual discharge of
120,000 14 capable of providing complete irrigation to
10 lha.
Dugwells and 3ue_ll Improvement
15.        (1)  Although the request for assistance for dugwell development
was limited to specific taluks, it would be desirable that
the wlhole of the four northern districts of Chingleput,
'tharmapuri, iiorth Arcot and Salem should be eligible for
such investments under the Project's Ks 125 ruillion program,
even though priority might be givenI to development in the
taluks listed in Schedule  '. Tiis would permit the appli-
cation of the new appraisal techniqucs thiroughout the whole
of northtern Lamil 1;adu.
(2)  For the reasons discussed in paras 5 and 6 anove, the
identification and location of individual iuvestments must
depend on thle analysis of groundwater resources based on
additional information and following new procedures. 'liie
new features of the analysis and procedures would be as
follows.
(a)  the calculation of recharge would be based on the
most precise amounts of the four main parameters -
rainfall, runoff, LTP and soil moisture - than can oe
obtained within an elementary watershed as thie basic
hydrologic unit. 'This would replace the present
method whereby recharge is assessed over administrative
units by emperical formulae with only rainfall applied
as a precise factor. For reasons discussed in para u,
this does not give sufficiently accurate information
on whiclh to base an investment program particularly
where resources are as scarce as they are in the
crystalline areas of Tamil i.adu.
(b)  Much of the information required to qualify the
additional parameters is available in Tamil .4adu but
is not at present used. In all cases lhowever field



ANNEX 1
Page 9
surveys should be carried out in the elementary water-
sheds not only to provide information on the distri-
bution and performance of existing wells but also on
such qualitative paramaters as gradients soil
structure, vegetation, surface water storage, etc.
which provide additional data on which the quantitative
analysis can be made. Field surveys on this scale
are not at present carried out when appraising such
investments.
(3) A further feature of the procedures is that appraisal
teams would be required to recommend the best method of
increased groundwater exploitation in each situation: this
could be by the installation of new dugwells or the improve-
ment or energizing by electricity of existing dugwells.
Individual energized dugwell investments should generally
not exceed Rs 12,000 cost and each dugwell improvement
Rs 5,000. In addition appraisal teams should only recommend
an inves5ment where there is adequate evidence of a discharge
of 180 M /day which is the minimum which can be economically
justified. All new dugwells and all dugwell improvement
investments would be energized by electricity in order to
achieve the required irrigation efficiency. As all rural
areas are expected to be electrified by end of 1971 this
should not prevent the implementation of worthwhile invest-
ments: in order to avoid water mining the State Electricity
Board (SEB) would only electrify such wells as were autho-
rized by the State Groundwater Directorate (SGB) (para 16).
(4) As in the case of filterpoint and tubewell investments,
it is essential that dugwells investments are organized
to ensure the maximum irrigation use of scarce groundwater
resources. Arrangements for the sharing of well water
generally among a number of small farmers will, it is recog-
nized present difficulties but there is no practical alter-
native to this course. A new outlook on this matter would
be encouraged if the authorities were to emphasize that
groundwater resources in Tamil iiadu are generally very
limited and that maximum development and individual benefit
can only be achieved by such sharing. It is therefore
essential that the minimum criteria for well spacing and
irrigation be strictly enforced.
E. Technical Organization and Consultancy Services
State Groundwater Directorate
16.       In 1969 the Tamil Nadu Government established a State Groundwater
Directorate (SGD) which has since been considerably developed in its



ANNEX 1
Page 10
organization and staffing. With its headquarters in Madras, the Directorate
now comprises two Divisions (DSGD), one covering Tiruchirappalli, South
Arcot, Salem, Coimbatore and the Nilgiris districts in the centre of the
State and the other covering the districts to the South (which would be
outside the Project areas): a third DSGD has been authorized for the three
northern districts of Chingleput, North Arcot and Dharmapuri but, as of
September 1970, no staff had been posted to this unit. Thanjavur lhas so
far not been included in the divisional organization because of the current
UNDP project in that district and on which a number of counterpart staff are
employed. Taking the State as a whole, there are a number of vacancies in
the SGD but of some senior staff appear well qualified and competent.
17.       In order to carry out the Project it is necessary to strengthen
SGD and it would be desirable that its divisions be reorganized. The DSGD
based on Tiruchirappalli should ideally take over administrative
responsibility for Thanjavur district so that proposed Project investments
in filterpoints and tubewells could be brought under single control.
Likewise, Salem district should be brought under the administrative control
of the northern DSGD thus coordinating Project dugwell development in the
crystalline areas. The third DSGD could continue to supervise groundwater
development in the southern districts.
18.       SGD's functions are at present mainly exploratory and, in order
to carry out the Project it will be necessary to re-orientate its work to
provide the necessary advisory control. This would involve three main
fields of activity:
(1) the establishment of mapping units to provide grid maps
of the whole State and slowly develop an overall well
census. It should be emphasized that it is not the
intention to complete a large scale census as a condition
of Project investments but to complete only such
information as is essential to determine the feasibility
of well development in a limited hydrogeologic area.
The census approach is therefore a vital element of
appraisal as well as subsequent control. Apart from a
few map specialists, a strengthening of middle level
technical staff is mainly required;
(2) the training and supervision of appraisal teams who
would continue to be staffed by Lhe bankscassisted by
staff (engineers, geologists etc.) of Government's
technical departments. The training would involve
mainly the application of appraisal criteria and
techniques in elementary sketch mapping and appraisal.
For this purpose DSGD would establish a few represent-
ative models of conditions in different watersheds to
be used as guidelines. The iSGD's will need to ~increase
their staffing at the middle levels to supervise and
carry out check appraisals;



ANNEX 1
Page 11
(3) the progressive application of sound water management
on all irrigated areas to ensure the maximum use of all
water resources. For this purpose each DSGD should
include one water management engineer with supporting
junior staff to advise on irrigation methods and
cropping patterns.
19.       Some additional specialist appointments (hydrologists, geo-
physicists, hydro-geologists, water management engineers) would therefore
be required to strengthen the operations of SGD to carry out its increased
responsibilities and its satisfactory organization and staffing should be
a condition of the Project's effectiveness. It should be possible to
secure the necessary staff for these appointments from within the State.
The success of the Project however will largely depend on the ability of
SGD to administer the new technical procedures and for this purpose it
is essential that additional advice be obtained from consultants who have
this experience.
Consultancy Services
20.       (1)  India has no experience of carrying out technical
appraisals or recording data as proposed under the
Project but this has been or is being done in other
countries under similar conditions. To help establish
and introduce the new procedures, three consulting
engineers should be appointed for a period of two years,
one of whom would be bbased at SGD's headquarters at
Madras and one each at the northern and central DSGD's.
These experts should not only be technically qualified
but should have considerable management and administra-
tive experience of operating programs similar to that
proposed under the Project and should be capable of
training SGD staff in these procedures.
(2) Aerial survey and photographic interpretation is increasingly
being used to improve the precision and quality of maps and
provide inventories of natural resources including physical,
geomorphological and agricultural features. Using the
latest techniques it is possible to provide additional in-
formation which would help assess water availability more
accurately, estimate agricultural resources and plan soil
and water conservation projects on the basis of natural
conditions precisely located and defined. An aerial survey
is therefore proposed of crystalline areas in order to assist
in implementing the new appraisal procedures for dugwell
investments. Because similarly difficult groundwater conditions
are known to exist in the crystalline areas of Andhra Pradesh
(where groundwater investments under IDA's approved credit
project are limited througlh lack of information on resources)
and of Maharashtra and Mysore (where credit projects are soon
expected to be appraised by IDA), it would be appropriate



ANNEX 1
Page 12
that the survey should be extended to the relevant parts of
those states also. Allowing for areas covered by existing
aerial photographs (which should be made available to the
respective groundwater authorities) it is estimated that
the aerial survey would involve about 70,000 km2 in Tamil
Nadu and about 500,000 km2 in the other states. While the
aerial survey would not be essential to the implementation of
the relevant groundwater investments under the Project, its
inclusion would considerably speed-up procedures, provide
more accurate information for investment decisions and provide
new data for the formulation of subsequent projects.
21.       Additional technical data on the proposed consultancies together
with draft terms of reference are given at Appendix 1-2; detailed estimates
are given at Appendix 7-3.
F. Technical Services and Supplies
Well-drilling
22.       (1)  About 90% of well drilling operations (for filterpoint
and tubewell installations) is carried out by the
Engineering Wing of the Department of Agriculture which
has established depots in various parts of the State,
The remainder is carried out by a few private contractors
whose operations are seriously restricted by the heavily
subsidized services which the Department provides. A8
of September 1970 the cost of hiring a rotary drill
including a driller, assistant driller and technical
assistance was Rs 10 per day for drilling the first 350',
Rs 25 per day for 350' to 500' and Rs 40 per day for
depths beyond 500'. Allowing for the additional costs
which a farmer has to meet for fuel, oil, extra labor
and transportation, the approximate cost ranges between
Rs 5 and Rs 7 per foot compared with an estimated
commercial cost ranging from Rs 31 to 39 per foot
depending on conditions and machinery used.
(2)   The present high subsidy levels not only discourages
competition (and leads to operating inefficiencies) but
give farmers a totally false sense of the value of their
(particularly tubewell) investments:  there is thus much
less incentive for a well owner to make full use of his
irrigation water and in many cases installed wells
cannot be justified on their full economic cost. It is
therefore essential that well-drilling be put on a fully
commercial basis as soon as possible.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
(3)   In the crystalline areas most dugwells are developed by
private contractors using mainly manual labor.
Drilling Equipment
23.       The Department of Agriculture at present operates about 140
handboring sets, 37 rotary rigs, 11 hammer drills and some 68 percussion
and calyx type drills, which is much below the equipment required to carry
out the proposed program and maintain other minor irrigation development in
the State. Assuming improved management on a two shift basis, additional
equipment required would be 12 rotary and 4 hammer drills, 10 mud pumps, 10
hammers (200 lb), 10 compressors (200 psi) and 145 hand-bore sets and these
are included in the Project. Adequate local supplies of hand-bore sets are
available but other equipment is either not manufactured in India or is
inadequate to meet local needs: the State Government has therefore
requested the inclusion of these items.
ectricit
24.       (1)  About 25% of the State's total electricity consumption
is sold for the energizing of about 425,000 electric
pumps. As part of the present five-year plan,
the State Government aims to complete the electrification
of rural areas by the end of 1971 and to energize an
additional 50,000 wells annually. Supplies of electricity
and the availability of suitable locally manufactured
pumps should be adequate to permit this program.
(2) The State Electricity Board's (SEB) present agricultural
tariff is approximately Rs 0.10/kwh compared with an
estimated economic rate of Rs 0.18. Financial projections
show that the latter would be well within the payment
capacity of farmers and its introduction would encourage
the economic use of irrigation water. The present subsi-
dized rate is an important contributory element of SEB's
losses, currently amounting to Rs 30 million annually.
Despite the difficulties involved, it is important that
steps be taken to effect some increase in the agricultural
tariff at an early date.
May 12, 1971






TND tA
TAMIL NADU ACRICULTtRAL CRUDIT PROJICT
7IL?! POINT AND T"EBEWELL INVESTHEITS - 'sTINATED DISCFARGE AND TRRICATI O US2
Arse  ead Aquifer                                         In"Ovetmt               so.  Maxim    exis    M xiem    Average Van              Total           Totel           Area to be Irrigeated             IrrigStie
P.W       Depth    Instant    Di  rharge        0Dherge         Aquifer          etr Weil         Totel             TY"
Rip        H    Dra-daes        NIer          10-/Yeer   lsources toyN             as             lie
TNWIAVU  DISICT
C_wry lub-beeis (quaternehy alluvium)         Filter Polits                   5,000     4c         20        7            28.000          140                                3           25,000             eepSleMI
Shello.. Tbvell1                1.000     5c         50        7           56,000            56                              10            10.00D
FLIter Point 2l1ettifietim    3*,00       Sc         -                      28,000                            -               3            171500
52.500
Veseer Sub-but. (quetemsry allviu)            Filter Points                   2,000     5c         20        7            28,000           56                                5           10,000
SCO     Sc        -                      28.000           14                                5            2.500
i2                                            12.500
ft. Delte Sob-b-et (P1Liae   eWN)             Hldi_ Tubslle                      90     Sc         60        7            56,000            S                 3             10              8O                    C
Upper Anociot (Niucete son")                  Mediu  Tubewelle                   60    LSe         70       20           120,050            7                 8  '          10C 600
TIRUCIIIAPPALLI DISTRICT
Ale.1dt (toce-ne  Md*)                        ibdir  Tubo_llo                    s0    1e          70       20           120,OD            6                  7            10              500
Ud-y-rpelaya (uese sad.)                      Hedius Tubv..llo                   60    15.         70       20           120000            7                 7              a 10           600
Crystalline  aLock                            Shall. Tubwells (with pit)        300     5e         50        7           120.0D            36                 -             10            3.000
s"md ARCOI 0tSnICT
Veller/Colerom lesresi                        Shell. Tobsooll                 2,500     Sc         s0        7            285000           70                72             10           25.000              eeppl_ot_y
mtia                                          Hedirn Tubewlls (with pit)        500     SC        100        7           120.000           60                70             10            3.0DO                   el
MU: I/ Considered *  safe    eett fo  * first phe  esp0itetie.
c - centrifugal t_.
a - sbeersible or teVair pJ-.
teWuwy 20. 1871






APPENDIX 1-2
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE AND TECHNICAL DATA RELATING TO
PROPOSED CONSULTANCY SERVICES
A. Technical and Organizational Assistance to Stage Groundwater Directorate
Terms of Reference
1.        The responsibilities of experts hired to give technical and
organizational assistance to the State Groundwater Directorate (SGD) would
be as follows:
(a) to review and advise on the work program, organization and
staffing of SGD generally and specifically for the purpose
of administering appraisal and recording procedures for
proposed minor irrigation investments throughout Tamil Nadu;
(b) to assist in the establishment of map units and methods of
recording of information arising from the area census of wells
and other relevant data;
(c) to assist in coordinating all technical data relating to
groundwater exploitation including the results of the pro-
posed aerial survey;
(d) to advise on the best methods of groundwater exploitation
in crystalline areas and of well development generally in the
State;
(e) to advise and assist in the training of staff both within and
outside SGD concerned with the appraisal of minor irrigation
investments;
(f) to advise on a work program to improve water management and
control;
(g) to give advice on research matters relevant to the proposed
Project investment program; and
(h) to advise and assist in any other matters relating to the
implementation of the Project and agreed criteria.



APPENDIX 1-2
Page 2
Specifications for and Duties of Posts
2.        The qualifications and specific duties of the three groundwater
experts, who would be engaged for two years, should be as follows:
(a)  Chief Advisor
(i) Background should be either in engineering hydrology or
geohydrology with at least 10 years relevant experience
since graduation. Most of his experience should be in
groundwater development and planning. He should person-
ally have conducted groundwater investigations in the
field and must have a good organizational ability. He
should be competent to advise on the mapping and recording
of wells and data relevant to groundwater development.
If possible he should also have experience of water
management and control; and
(ii) He would be responsible for the overall direction of the
advisory program, giving policy advice to SGD. He should
also take an active part in field analysis aspects of
the program.
(b) Assistant Advisors
(i) The two assistant advisors should be qualified in and
have sound practical experience of hydrogeology. It
is essential that both should have had at least five
years practical experience in groundwater investigation
and should be thoroughly familiar with and experienced
in the methods of determining recharge and aquifer
testing. It would be desirable that one assistant
should have particular experience of sedimentary soil
conditions and the other of crystalline rock conditions.
Both should be capable of advising on the organization
of field appraisal work and the mapping and recording of
data; and
(ii) Each assistant advisor would be responsible for advising
a State Groundwater Directorate Division in accordance with
the terms of reference.
B.  Aerial Survey and Photographic Interpretation
Terms of Reference
3.        The responsibilities of the consultancy firm hired to carry out
the aerial survey, (which should be completed within two years of initial
flying), would fall into two main categories:



APPENDIX 1-2
Page 3
(a)  The aerial photography (panchromatic and infrared) of most of
the crystalline rock areas of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Mysore representing about 570,000 km2 (of
which Tamil Nadu about 70,000 sq. km);
(b)  The setting up of an inventory of natural resources by analysis
and location of:
(i) drainage pattern;
(ii) land gradients and soil erosion;
(iii)  estimate of weathering;
(iv) natural vegetation;
(v)  irrigation; and
(vi) more generally, changes to the natural environment by
human activity.
(c) Photographic interpretation of the survey and the training of
counterpart staff in the respective states.
Job Specifications
4.        The study should be undertaken by a firm of consultants experienced
in this kind of work. Under the project manager, who should be a photo-
interpretation expert of at least 7 years experience and qualified either in
geology or soils science, staffing would include 6 photographic interpreters
over 12 months.
5.        Detailed costs of the three consultancy services are given at
Appendix 7-3.
May 12, 1971






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LAND LEVELLING AND LAND DRAINAGE
A. Land Levelling
Background
1.        Land levelling and reclamation is an essential part of surface ir-
rigation schemes enabling the controlled and even distribution of water on
farms within command areas. Although land levelling has been carried out
for many centuries, it has only been with the advent of large irrigation
schemes in relatively recent times, involving steeper gradients than those
previously encountered, that the scale of the operation has necessitated the
provision of long-term loans to farms. Land levelling has therefore become
an important element of the lending operations of land development and mort-
gage Banks in many parts of India and about 20% of the Agricultural Refi-
nance Corporation's (ARC) commitments are for this purpose.
2.        Land levelling operations are carried out either manually, general-
ly by gangs of hired labor and sometimes assisted by animal power, or by
earth-moving machinery. When gradients reach about 3% or when rocky condi-
tions are prevalent it is usually more practical and economical to use mach-
inery: above about 5% gradients costs of levelling are generally uneconomic.
The Parambikulam - Aliyar Project (PAP)
3.        Scheme background.  The PAP is the only large scale surface irri-
gation scheme at present being developed in Tamil Nadu. The project which
is located in the Pollachi, Udumalpit, Dharapuram and Palladam taluks of
Coimbatore district is multipurpose, designed to utilize the water resources
of the inter-state rivers originating in the Anamalai range of the Western
Ghats for the mutual benefit of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. In addition to power
generation with an installed capacity of 180,000 kw, the project is designed
to irrigate 97,000 ha by the construction of seven reservoirs and a weir:
of these, two dams of Aliyar and Tirumurthi directly serve the irrigable
areas, the other reservoirs merely serving the purpose of storage balance.
4.        Construction work on the dams and weir was scheduled to be com-
pleted in 1968 but owing to delay in obtaining clearance from the Government
of Kerala, construction work on the Tekkadi and the Nirar reservoirs was
held up. As a result, by September 1970, the total irrigation system was
only capable of irrigating 57,000 ha although the entire command area of
97,000 ha (only partly levelled as discussed below) had been thrown open for
irrigation. To meet this situation it was decided to rotate irrigation



ANNEX 2
Page 2
throughout the area once in two years for a season of 4-1/2 months. Agree-
ment has now been reached with Kerala which permits the construction of the
necessary irrigation works which should be completed by late 1972.
5.        Scheme phasing.  The land levelling program at PAP was divided in-
to two phases for financing by the Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Develop-
ment Bank (LDB). The first phase assumed a total land levelling of about
60,000 ha of which it was estimated that one half would require loan finance
from LDB. In the event this phase, which was completed in 1969, financed loans
on 34,000 ha to a total value of Rs 60 million (an average of about Rs 1.760
per ha): ARC refinanced this program to the extent of 75% of loans made.
6.        In August 1970, ARC agreed to support the second phase of land
levelling for a further 13,000 ha which, on the basis of about 50% loans
(47,000 ha out of 97,000 ha) would complete the development by about june
1973. The investments in land levelling would be phased to match the in-
creasing availability of irrigation water and it is estimated that by July
1971, about 10,000 ha would remain to be financed.
7.        Financing and Estimates.  Loans to farmers for land levelling are
based on a scale which assumes a contribution of about 20% of the total cost
by the borrower: this contribution usually takes the form of the farmers'
own family labor for the finishing work. The scale now applying is:
Below 1% slope                 Rs 1,240/ha
1-3% slope                     Rs 1,480/ha
Above 3% slope                  Rs 1,730/ha
and includes provision for the removal of boulders and the construction of
on-farm field channels.
8.        The cost of overall scheme financing depends on the average of
gradients to be levelled and the amount of land designated for wet irriga-
tion (i.e. paddy cultivation) requiring higher bunding than dry or light
irrigation. Overall, about 20% of land under PAP has been designated for
wet irrigation (where heavier soils predominate) but a higher proportion
of this area came within the first phase of development and loan scales
and estimates for the second phase are therefore lower. ARC has estimated
the loan cost of the second phase at Rs 19 million making a total project
cost (including farmers' contribution) of Rs 23.8 million or about Rs
1,830/ha. With a provision of about 10% allowance for cost increases, the
total cost of levelling 10,000 ha is estimated to be Rs 20 million requir-
ing LDB loans of Rs 16 million.
Mechanized Levelling
9.        Mechanized land levelling is at present carried out by the En-
gineering Wing of the Department of Agriculture which, as of September 1970
was operating 24 earth moving machines (mainly bulldozers) in Coimbatore



ANNEX 2
Page 3
district: most of these machines were then engaged on PAP but the same
equipment is also employed on soil conservation schemes elsewhere in the
district. Hitherto, available machinery has been inadequate to meet farm-
ers' demands under the scheme while the machinery used is not the most
suitable for land levelling.
10.       During the first phase mechanized levelling accounted for about
only 5% (about 3,000 ha) of total development and although the second phase
will be on a smaller scale, it would be desirable to increase the Agricultur-
al Department's park of vehicles to permit 30% of the balance of the scheme
area. Although demand may be expected to fall off with an increase in hiring
charges (para 11), this may be offset, at least in part, by the steeper
gradients which are expected to be encountered in the remaining area. Bull-
dozers however are not generally the most suitable equipment for land level-
ling as they remove an unnecessarily large amount of the top soil and they
should only be used where essential. Accordingly, the Project envisages the
inclusion of 10 units each consisting of a grader, scraper and two large
tractors (with blades) supported by 1 D6 Bulldozer for five units. Each of
these units would be capable of levelling 1 ha/day or say a total of 3,000
ha/year for the 10 units. If demand for mechanized land levelling should
be less than expected, the additional machinery capacity would be utilized
on land drainage schemes elsewhere (Section B).
11.       The Agricultural Department at present charges Rs 25/hr for a 65
hp and Rs 35/hr for a 100 hp bulldozer which is about one half the commercial
cost of operating these machines. This large element of subsidy has effec-
tively eliminated competition from private contractors who cannot compete
on price and this in turn has discouraged operating efficiency by the En-
gineering Wing of Department. The proposed increase in hire charges should
therefore result in more efficient services and better use of machinery.
Benefits
12.       The command area of PAP receives relatively light rainfall as, for
the most part, it is deprived of the SW monsoon (June to September) and
effectively benefits from only the NE monsoon (October to December). Prior
to the development of the scheme, most farmers were thus only able to
cultivate one dry crop annually. With the eventual release of irrigation
water from July 1 - November 15 to one zone and from November 16 to end
March in the other zone, farmers would be enabled to plant two crops
either by advancing or extending the planting season. After development,
the cropping pattern is based on groundnuts, cotton, maize and pulses in
the areas of light irrigation, supplemented by paddy and sugarcane in the
areas of wet irrigation. The average size of farms within the command area
is estimated to be 3 ha.
B. Land Drainage
13.       Throughout the sedimentary areas of Tamil Nadu but particularly
in the Cauvery delta there is an urgent need for land drainage. Inadequate



ANNEX 2
Page 4
irrigation channels and over-watering have contributed to extensive flooding
in the monsoon seasons with a consequent substantial loss of production.
The problem generally is intensified by the fragmentation of holdings and it
is not unusual to find a small farm of 1 ha divided into four or more parts.
14.       The Department of Agriculture has made a small start in overcoming
this problem by executing a number of land drainage and consolidation schemes,
most of which are located in the Cauvery delta. This development which is
entirely dependent on the willingness of farmers to cooperate on a scheme
basis (about 100 are involved in each scheme) involves the installation of a
new drainage system, the consolidation of farm holdings on a new field layout
and the construction of access roads. Although localized and scattered, the
Department designs each scheme so that it will coordinate with overall drain--
age and development plans for the area.
15.       The results from schemes already developed (which total about 5,00oo
ha) have been encouraging with yield increases of up to 50% for paddy and 30%
for maize and some commercial crops: an increase in cropping intensity has
also been made possible by the more easily worked fields and increased farm
mechanization which is facilitated by access roads.
16.       These schemes have been executed by the Department of Agriculture
and have been financed by long-term loans initially advanced by the State
Government but now taken over by LDB. Although costs have varied consider-
ably according to local circumstances, they have averaged about Rs 375/ha.
17.       Because land drainage and soil conservation are relatively new
types of investment, it is difficult to measure the likely demands of the
whole state during a two and a half year period. The IDA Cauvery Delta
mission had envisaged the drainage of 40,000 ha over a five year period but
this excluded the needs of other sedimentary areas. It would not be unrea-
sonable to forecast therefore that total demand over the Project period
might be about 18,000 ha.
le.      With a wide variety of conditions, financial requirements are
equally difficult to forecast with any accuracy. As a safe estimate, the
Project would provide Rs 500 per ha but it would be necessary for lending
banks, in association with ARC, to work out a number of models, for each
of' which a lending scale would be applied. These models and lending scales
should be agreed with IDA before they are brought into effect. In other
parts of India and in other countries it has been the practice to make di-
rect grants for land consolidation and it would be appropriate that this
element of land drainage schemes should be similarly treated. The provision
of Rs 500/ha does not however take into account the possibility of subsidies
for land consolidation.
May 12, 1971



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MECIANIZATION
1.        In Tamil Nadu there is limited scope for increasing the overall
cropped area and the area under irrigation.  Although total agricultural
production in 1969/70 was 11% higher than in 1964/65, this was almost en-
tirely due to yield increases per hectare.
2.        The State's development plans recognize that this modest upward
trend in production can only be maintained by more intensive cultivation
of higher yielding varieties, with increased fertilizer use, particularly
under conditions of assured irrigation. This new technology brings with
it a growing demand for farm power and enhances the importance of timely
operations if optimum results from the new inputs are to be achieved.
Tractor Use and Justification
3.        As elsewhere in India at the present time, tractors are being
used to replace bullock power and the range of cultivation operations for
which they are used is still limited. Their introduction has however been
caused by three specific needs where experience has shown that the tractor
can either enable a higher degree of intensive farming than would be possi-
ble with traditional bullock power or can carry out cultivation operations
more effectively than would otherwise be the case.
(a) The first need is for speedy land preparation in the short
periods between growing seasons particularly between the
two monsoons of June to September and October to December
but increasingly also in preparation for a third crop grown
during January to May. The use of bullocks in such circum-
stances, while not impossible, would involve the maintenance
of a much larger number of animals than would normally be re-
quired for farm use during the rest of the year and their
maintenance would result in the loss of land to animal fodder
production. As higher levels of cropping intensity are
reached (above about 140%) the consequent loss of such land,
which would otherwise be used for commercial or subsistence
crops becomes substantial.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) Many commercial crops, notably sugarcane, require deeper
plowing than can be obtained from bullocks using, even
improved, implements. In the heavier soils of the delta
and coastal areas, tractor work is recognized as being
generally superior and increased production has resulted
from improved cultivation standards.
(c) The development of irrigation generally has increased the
demand for land levelling and tractors are increasingly
being used not only for the initial levelling operation
but for the subsequent maintenance of bunds and channels.
Tractors are particularly suitable for the final levelling
which is carried out in heavy soil conditions after the
first irrigation water has been received on the farm.
The primary benefit from mechanization is therefore the larger area it en-
ables a farmer to cultivate for commercial crops and, through timely plant-
ing and better cultivation practices, obtain better yields. To a lesser ex--
tent increased production also follows changes in the cropping pattern and
thus higher intensity of cultivation permits the greater use of existing ir-
rigation facilities.
4.        In addition to, or as part of meeting these three main needs,
tractors are used for plowing, paddy puddling, seed and fertilizer appli-
cation and to a limited extent for threshing and energizing wells. So
far there is no mechanized harvesting in the State. Off the farm, tractors
are widely used for transporting crops to markets or, in the case of sugar-
cane to the local factory and, although a subsidiary benefit, there is no
doubt that their use has helped reduce marketing difficulties.
Tractor Population and Demand
5.        There are currently about 4,500 tractors operating in Tamil Nadu,
with more than half concentrated in the coastal region, comprising Chin-
gleput, South Arcot, and Thanjavur districts. Most of the existing tractors
are, in order of popularity, Massey Ferguson, International, the Russian DT
14 B and Escorts.
6.        Any accurate estimate of tractor demand is difficult to establish.
The number of applicants on private dealers' waiting list is between 3,500
and 4,000; whilst for eastern European tractor imports the Tamil Nadu Agro-
Industries Corporation (AIC) has a further 1,500 outstanding applications.
When allowance is made for duplication of registrations, encouraged by
present scarcity conditions and easy credit terms, it appears that real
demand might be expected to be of the order of 3,500 to 4,000 tractors, with
subsequent annual demand (assuming elimination of the present backlog) at
a somewlhat lower level.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        Tn attempting to assess a realistic and appropriate farm mechaniza-
tion program, consideration has been given to two important factors:
(a) whether and to what extent farmers' apparent demand for
tractors is inflated by the present price relationship of
tractors and farm crops and, more particularly, whether
such investments although attractive financially would
constitute a waste of resources economically;
(b) whether equal benefits could be achieved by other sources
of power and the effect that tractors are likely to have
on total labor use.
Price Relationships
80   (a)  In relative terms, the prices of tractors in India, and
particularly of tractors imported from western sources, are
low when compared with the current prices of many crops. In
order to encourage agricultural production, the Government
of India (GOI) gives price support to a number of domestically
produced commodities and, so long as India remain deficient
in food grains, this policy is likely to continue. As a
result, the present prices of wheat and sugar are about 15%
above the predicted 1976 l/ world market levels and maize
and sorghum are 34% above. Against this, there is at present
no import duty on tractors and, apart from a small variable
sales tax levied by the states, tractors are exempt from
direct taxes. GOI has sought to be released from its GATT
obligation binding tractors to a zero import duty and expects
that these negotiations will reach a successful conclusion in
the near future. Meanwhile, however, the prices of tractors
are in effect subsidized and this, together with the shortage
of supply, has led to an active second-hand market in
tractors at substantial premia.
(b) This situation is most marked in NW India (particularly
Punjab and Haryana) where land reform and extensive irrigation
has, among other factors, enabled the widespread development
of commercial farming and where wheat is the major crop. In
1/   For purposes of economic analysis, 1976 world market prices as predicted
by the Trade Policies and Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economic
Department are used in this report. 1976 has been adopted as the year
when the Project would have reached full development and predicted prices
for that year are adopted over the life of the Project.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Tamil Nadu the position, though variable, is generally very
different: there have been few land reform measures and
with a denser population and smaller farms, the development
of commercial farming has been inhibited and is mostly limited
to the larger farmers. iAoveover paddy (not wheat) is the main
crop aaJ, owing to the State's policy, the price of rice is
currently 13% below predicted world market prices.  Although
not a significant factor, it should be noted that whereas the
liaryana sales tax oil tractors is 6% (and only Rs 100 in
Punjab), the sales tax in Tamil Nadu is 9% on tractors
manufactured in the State and 12% on those brought in from
other states.
(c) Although tractor mechnization farm models for Haryana and
Tamil Nadu are not, and cannot, be stricly comparable (they
both, however, assume 1000 hours of tractor use over 40 ha)
they clearly illustrate that the margin between the financial
and economic rates of return is much smaller in Tamil Nadu
(30% to 26%) than in Haryana (40% to 15%) as one would expect
from the factors mentioned above. It would therefore appear
that the tractor demand position in Tamil Nadu is less inflated
than in the NW wheat belt (as is borne out by the smaller
second-hand market premia) and that with a smaller price imbalance,
there is less danger of tractors being used uneconomically.
Nonetheless, so long as prevailing price relationships exist
there can be no absolute assurance that some tractor financing
would not constitute a misallocation of resources.
Alternative Power Sources and Labor-use
9.   (a)  Theoretically farmers greater power needs could be met by a
combination of increased employment of labor and draft animals
(bullocks and buffaloes). However, the increased use of
animal power requires additional fodder production to feed
draft animals cutting into marketable surpluses of fodder for
dairy and livestock production or other higher value crops.
Although average cropping intensity is lower in Tamil Aadu
than in the NW wheat belt, there is little scope for increasing
the overall cultivated area without increasing multiple
cropping (para 1): this is particularly the case on commercial
farms where tractors are most likely to be used. TTherefore,
even if additional draft animal power was to be available,
commercial crop development at the higher levels of intensity
could not be attained.
(b) Although it is claimed that there are seasonal labor shortages
in many parts of Tamil Nadu, there is also considerable year
round unemployment in other rural areas of high population
density. 'ihere is at present a serious lack of reliable
information and statistics on the effects of farm mecilanizatioll



ANNEX 3
Page 5
generally and in particular on labor use. 1/ Observations on
the situation in Punjab and Haryana indicate however that the
reduction in labor needs at periods of peak of cultivation,
as a result of the introduction of tractors, is at least offset
by an increased demand for labor both on and off farm, generated
by the increases in farming activity, crop production and
marketable surpluses and by the servicing and maintenance needs
of tractors and farm machinery.  Althouglh time extent of farm
mechanization in Tamil Nadu is much more limited, it would be
reasonable to assume that these same factors apply on similar
commercial farms in the State.
(c)  With thie present lack of information it is impossible to
quantify the labor use effect with any precision but there are
sufficient indicators to suggest that it is at worst neutral.
Thus, although Tamil Nadu has a rural unemployment problem, the
withholding of tractors would not contribute to its solution
while an increase in tractor supply could possibly improve
employment opportunities.
Project Proposals
10.       Because of tile wide variety of farming conditions in Tamil Nadu,
it would be difficult to ensure that tractors went to those farmers who
were able to make best economic use of them: it would not be feasible to
limit their sale to certain areas or farm types where optimum conditions
would be likely to apply. Although limiting the total number of tractors
to be supplied would not necessarily meet this objective either (though
it should help), the Project should not seek to fill the apparent supply/
demand gap and the proposed 1500 to be supplied would leave a margin to
cover a probable fall in demand should tractor prices later be increased.
In order to ensure the reasonably efficient use of tractors all applicants
would be required to demonstrate that each would be used to crop notless
than 40 ha or be used for 1000 hours of productive work in agriculture
annually.
11.       With the 1500 tractors recommended for Tamil Nadu and 6,000
currently under consideration for llaryana, the total number of tractors
which would be supplied to India under agricultural credit projects would
be 19,200 (para 15).  This compares with an estimated current all-India
tractor park of 125,000 whlch is expected to increase to 225,000 by 1975:
with an estimated cultivated area in India of 170 million ha, the latter
represents only 1 tractor per 750 ha.  Farm neclianization in India is
therefore still on a relatively small scale and IDA's expected contribution
thereto, modest.
I/   IDA has proposed that it should finance studies into the effects of
farm mechanization in Gujarat and Punjab and this is now under
discussion with GOI.



ANNEX 3
Page h)
Tractor Supply
12.       Currently, India's tractor supply is made up of the output of the
existing six Indian factories coupled with imports mainly from east European
countries under barter trade arrangements. Recently, the import of some
2,000 tractors of western origin under bilateral aid schemes has been ap-
proved together with smaller numbers of such tractors under gift schemes
financed by Indians living abroad.
13.       Of the six Indian plants, four manufacture in association with com-
panies in Bank member countries - Eicher (Federal Republic of Germany), Ford
(UK), International harvester (USA) and Massey Ferguson (UK) the other two
being Escort (Poland) and Hindustan (Czechoslovakia). In addition, as of
October 1970, GOI had approved the establishment of a further manufacturing
plant in association with Kloekner Humboldt (Federal Republic of Germany)
for the production of the Deutz tractor. GOI is also considering proposals
for establishing further plants including seven which would involve collabor-
ation with Bank member countries (one each from Austria, the Federal Republic
of Germany, France, Japan and USA and two from UK), to bring the aggregate
additional licensed capacity to over 100,000 tractors per annum. Hitherto,
mainly because of component supply difficulties, Indian tractor output has
lagged behind rated production capacity, reaching only 17,099 in 1969/70,
against a licensed capacity of 30,000 units. It is thus extremely difficult.
to forecast the expected future increase in Indian production, but it would
appear that by 1974 total tractor output from existing and new plants might
be of the order of 34,000 units per annum. This compares with estimates
made under the fourth Five Year Plan that, by 1973/74, tractor demand would
stand at 70,000 and indigenous production at 60,000 units per annum.
14.       The import of east European tractors has increased substantially
in the recent past to reach 10,478 in 1969/70. Agreements negotiated dur--
ing that year covered a further 25,000 tractors expected to be imported
over the next three years. Thereafter, such imports may be expected to de-
cline.
15.       The following table summarizes the supply position over the past
three years together with estimates of the tractor availability position
in India during the next five years (1970/71 to 1974/75):



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Indian
Year               Manufacture               Imports              Total Supply
1967/68                11,394                   5,500                   16,894
1968/69                15,466                   4,276                   19,742
1969/70                17,099                  10,478                   27,577
1970/71                20,000                  10,000                   30,000
1971/72                23,000                   8,000                   31,000
1972/73                26,500                   7,000                   33,500
1973/74                30,000                   5,000                   35,000
1974/75                34,000                   3,000                   37,000
Imports and thus total supply shown in the above table exclude those approved
under IDA credits as they are earmarked for specific States. The amounts in-
volved are 2,200 Gujarat for 3 years, 8,000 for Punjab over 2 years and 1,500
for Andhra Pradesh over 2-1/2 years. In addition 6,000 are under consider-
ation for Haryana.
16.       Tamil Nadu can expect to receive about 5% of the total availability
from Indian production and imports, which on the basis of the preceding table,
would mean an annual average supply to the State of about 1,500 tractors
against an estimated present demand of 3,500-4,000 tractors. The provision
under this Project of an additional 1,500 tractors spread over two and a
half years, should, therefore, be well within the level of unfilled demand.
By 1974, the total tractor population, allowing for write-offs, would have
risen to about 13,500 units, cultivating some 400,000 ha or about 7% of the
State's net sown area.
17.       Because of the heavier soils and deep plowing and levelling re-
quirements from areas where tractor demand is strongest, farmers' preferences
are likely to be for tractors of 35 hp and upwards. The hp range under the
project has however been set at 25-60 hp as there is evidently some demand in
the lower ranges.
Tractor Distribution and Service Facilities
18.       The main Indian tractor manufacturers maintain dealership outlets
throughout the State all of which represent firms with associates in Bank
member countries: Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE) with 10 sales outlets
on behalf of Massey Ferguson, Voltas (11 sales outlets) for International
Harvester and Escorts (14 sales outlets) for Ford. Messrs. TAFE and Voltas
have deliberately confined their dealer points to the main selling areas in
a period of limited supplies. Until early 1971 Escorts were only marketing
their own tractors made with Polish collaboration but the same dealer net-
work is now handling the Indian made Ford 3000 model.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
19.       Private dealerships maintain adequate spare part stocks and offer
on-farm servicing carried out by trained mechanics using motor-cycles, on-
farm training in tractor use and post-warranty service schemes. Less so-
phisticated services on similar lines are provided by the AIC for the east
European tractor imports it distributes. In addition there are a large num-
ber of small village repair workshops. While existing repair and servicing
facilities are considered adequate, tractor suppliers under the Project
should be required to demonstrate that their particular facilities in Tamil
Nadu would be sufficient to meet the increased demand.
20.       All borrowers under the Project should be required to have an
adequate range of implements. Details of such implements are given in
Appendix 7-2. The supply of these implements, many of which are manufac-
tured in Madras, is considered adequate to meet requirements under the
Project.
May 12, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
T_E AGRICULTURAL RFFINANCE CORPORArION
Organization and Mlanagement
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term
finance to agricultural cre(lit institutions and, at the same time,
directing and guiding such institutions toward a development oriented
approach in their operations.
2.        ARC's shareholders include thie Reserve Bank of India (RBI),
central and state-level land development and mortgage banks and cooperative
banks and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life Insurance Corpora-
tion of India, insurance and investment companies, and otliers approved
by the Government of India).  Of the initial 5,000 shares issued, the law
provided that RBI would subscribe to at least 50%, the central land
mortgage banks and state cooperative banks to no more than 30%, and other
institutions to no more than 20% and future issues of shares would be
allocated in the same proportion. The initial shares issued were
guaranteed a dividend of 4-1/4% per annum.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine
members, three of whom are elected and the rest nominated.  Three
directors represent RBI (a Deputy-Governor is Chairman of the Board),
three the Government of India (at present The Secretary, Department of
Agriculture, and the Additional Secretary, Department of Cooperation of
the Mlinistry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Cooperation;
and a Joint Secretary, Department of Banking of the Ministry of Finance),
and three directors are elected one each by the central land development
banks, by thie state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance Corporation
of Indlia, scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing institutions.
4.        The Managing Director is the chief executive officer and is
assisted by a managerial. staff of nearly 90 (as of October 1970) of
wihom 65 are based at ARC's head office. Until early 1970, ARC did not
employ any specialists, instead relying on a panel of consultants for
technical advice in appraisal and supervision work.  To supplement
consultants' advice, ARC has established a technical diVision which, as
of October 1970 comprised three agricultural specialists and an agricul-
tural economist and to which ARC proposes to make further appointments.
With the increasing volume of lending, ARC recognizes the need to build
up its staff at all levels and has prepared a staff development plan to
cover the period to March 31, 1971.



ANN X 4
P age  2
5 .        ARC's head office is in lIombay.  It has 13 regional offices
(Alimedabad, Bangalore, illiopal, Bhubaneswar, Calcuitta, Chandigarh,. iydterabad,
.Jaipur, Kanpur, Madras, New Delhi, Patna, and Trivan(irum) whicih assists
banks and State Governmients in formulating agricultural development
projects for financing, clarify ARC's policies and nrocedures wihen required,
unditertake pre-appraisal of projects submitted anld supervise general
execution of projects under ARC financing.  About 25 managerial staff are
employed in the Regional Offices.
6).        In general, ARC's charter provides that it shiall be guided by
such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as GOI
may, after consulting RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial
assistance only to central or state-level land development banks, state
cooperative banks, and schleduled banks: in exceptional cases, and withl
Ri31 approval, it can also lend directly to a primary cooperative at tLhe
farm level.  Refinance is provided through purchases of special debentures
floated by central or state-level land development banks and througlh loans
to state cooperative banks and scheduled banks.
7.         Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinanice
conastruction and enorgization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
involved was large and development was envisaged tlhrouglh a cooperative
society organized for tile purpose.  In July 1966, hourever, ARC not oiily
removed this restriction, but also circulated a nuodel sclheme for mikinor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas.  Thus began ARC's
policy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project mlodels.
<>0.       At the beginning, ARC's policy was to finance no imtore than 75'M
of a project, leaving thle balance to be contributed by State Governments.
lowever, the generally strained resources position of most State Governments
considerably restricted the extent to which land development, banks
could avail thenmselves of refinance facilities from ARC. Accordinglv,
to stimulate investments in minor irrigation especially, ARC increased
its support of such investments to 900, beginning with all projects
sanctioned in 1967/68.
9.         Special dlebentures purchased by ARC from central land cdevelopment
banks miiust be guaranteed by the State Governmnent concerned; in addition,
debentures are backed by a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans
refinanced under the issue.  In the case of debent ures, ARC requires tLlat
collections from  farmers be lodged in a sinlking. fund.  ltue sinking fund
is invested in  aCI securities and debentures of other land development
banks.  It mav also be used to repurchase the land development banks's own
debentures. Since from the view point of financial returns, the sinking
fund arrangements do not benefit a land develonment bank as issuer of
debentures, ARC has decided that repayments of its refinance under IDA
supported projects should approximately match those of ultimate borrowers
to lending banks.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, financially justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of
farmers. Preference, htowever, is given to schemes involving a large
number of farmers.
II.       Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants
drawn from a panel approved by the Government of India. Services of the
Central Ground Water Board (formerly the Exploratory Tubewells Organization),
the Geological Survey of India and the various commodity boards are also
used and ARC prescribes the terms of reference in every case. Some
important points examined in the case of schemes for minor irrigation
include, an estimate of the quantum of water proposed to be tapped, annual
water recharge, annual water draft taking into account the existing and
proposed wells, and the type of pump sets needed. With the establishment
of its own technical division, increasing back-up support is now available
from ARC's own specialist staff which will provide a foundation of tech-
nical expertise for scheme appraisal and supervision throughout India.
12.       Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some
of the important aspects appraised include cost estimates, the suitability
of the cropping pattern recommended, inputs available for development,
farmer's repayment capacity, efficiency of the project executing agency,
arrangements for the provision of short-term credits and marketing arrange-
ments. Preappraisal is done generally by regional offices, but final
evaluation is made in Bombay.
13.       Periods of refinance are determined after a study of the repayment
capacity of farmers based on farm models. Refinance terms for medium-term
projects are 3 to 5 years while those for long-term projects do not generally
exceed 15 years.
14.       With effect froni November 1970 ARC's general lending rate was
raise(1 from 6Z' to 6-1/2%  per annum.  Schedule(d banks are required to
charge thleir borrowers no more than an additional 2-1/2% per annum and
while land development (and mortgage) banks are not bound by the same
restriction, they nevertheless generally follow the same interest mark-up
and none exceeds it.  ARC collects a commitment clharge of 1/3 of 1% on
the amount not used in any one year according to a schedule of expected
withdrawals approved for a scheme.
Lending (Refinancing) Operations
15.       The following table shows the progress in ARC's lending (less
subsequent cancellations) during the seven years of its existence:



A,  ., ,14
Page  4
Number of
Schemes           Total Sciieme          ARC
Year                     Approved             Costs           C(ommitment
Rs M               Rs M
1963/64                      3                22.30                1'i).1 0
1964/65                     10               119.60)             L)0.7u
1965/66                     23               136.50              1)03.50
1966/67                      6                91.3()              70.70
1967/68                     836              616.10              z37.)u
1968/69                    105               734.09              )42.80
1969/70                    138               874.79)             006.9.0
Total                371              2,595.10           2143.50o
16.       During the initial vears, ARC transacted very little business
uue to the need for laying the groundwork and bases for its oneraLions
and for building its staff.  nu important deterrent, niowever, *zas ARC's
policy, at the time, of refinancing only projects in wilich developimlent
was envisaged through a cooperative society organized for the purpose.
In .June 1966, this restriction was removed; furthermore, ARC a,greed to
refinance up to 90%/ of loans for minor irrigation, against thie previous
75%.  Tlhus, during the last tLhree years, projects approved for refinancin(;
were more than six times the number during the first four years.
17.       As may be expected, most of the scliemes sanctioned were for
projects financed by land uevelopment or mnortgage banks:
ARC Comnmitment
RS H           > of Total
(a)  Land development banks              1,935.0            90.1
(b)  State cooperative banks                93.30              4.3
(c)  Scheduled commercial banks            119.80              5.6
Total                         2,148.90            100.0
18.       Abouit 35%o of the cost of projects approved for refinance were
for minor irrigation andl land reclamation:



ANLLX 4
Page 5
Total ARC
Schemes Aproved                Commitment
% of                      Z of
.umber       Total            Rs M    Total
(a)  PIinor irrigation    186        50.2         1,405.90       65.5
(b)  Land reclamation       39       10.5            423.70      19.8
(c)  Tractor & Power
Tillers              9         2.4            41.40       1.9
(d)  Soil conservationi      2        0.5             21.40       1.1
(e)  Plantations           115        31.0           176.00       8.3
(f)  Poultry                 6        1.6              4.40       0.2
(g)  Fisheries               8         2.2            35.00       1.7
(h)  Dairying                2        0.5              3.10       0.1
(i)  Godowns                4          1.1            38.00       1.4
371      100.()        2,148.90    100.0
Source nf Funds
19.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources: (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI, (b)
issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI,
the State Government, and local authorities for periods not less than 12
months. Total borrowings and denosits received may not exceed 20 times
the sum of ARC's canital and surplus reserves.
20.       ARC's borrowings and receipts of deposits during the seven years
of its existence are summarized as follows:
Year                           Borrowings             Deposits Received
COI         eJen_Market
Rs M            Rs M               Rs M
1963/64                   50.000            -
1964/65                      -              -                 1.130
1965/66                      -              -                 1.256
1966/67                      -              -                 1.255
1967/68                   30.000            -                 1.255
1968/69                  177.500            -                 1.252
1969/70                  190.(00(        109.377             1.252
Total              447.500          109.377             7.400



AA,;LA 4
Ia'-e  o
T[he above total borrowings of Us 564 nmillion together waith ARC's equity
capital of Rs 50 mi1i1ioiu brouLli,t AP's total resources; as of June '3J, 1970)
to just over 1,s (1-4 illill-on.  Norrowiiigs from GMO naVe L(fl Oi       vl 1 fOwl ii
terms:
RIs A         Interest 1P. A.                Repayment
50.0(0            Nqone                      30 years withi 15-year ,,race
30.000            5-1/2                      At end of 15 years
L)0.000            5--/'                      At end olf 15 years
2 U7.5l()          .,                         AL end of 9 years
Since Auzgust 1968, ARC inas becn allowed a rebate of 1/4k on timely
p)avments of interest.  Tlie larger Loau of Rs 267.5 iill1ion was for a
s!iorter term, since tLle proceeds were usedl to refinanice, in the main,
;iLilor irrigation schemes, generally requiring refinance for miine years
or less.  Open market borrowings in 1969/70 represent thle issue of ARC
bonds 1982 at i-3/4;3 interest per annum.  'Tlhe special deposits represent
dividends payable oni ARC's slhares held by Rill whnich, under the law, diust
be held by ARC as special deposits. No interest is paid on them.
21.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results since its
establishiment until 1969/70 is aiveii in Appendix 4-1 and is summarized
below (in Rs million):
'et
Income      Statutory   Surplus
Cross      Total       Net   Income   Before       Dividend        or
Year       Income   Expenses   Income    Tax   Dividends   Liability   Deficit
1963/64    3.75        0.30       3.45    1.80        1.65        1.91        -0.26
1964/65    4.00        0.39       3.61    1.76        1.35        2.13        -0.28
1965/66    4.35        0.48       3.87    2.27        1.60        2.13        -0.53
1966/67    4.98        0.61       4.36    2.40        1.97        2.13        -0.16
1967/68    6.00        1.67       4.33    2.38       1.95         2.13        -0.18
1.968/69   11.04       6.29       4.75    2.61        2.14        2.13        +0.01
1969/70   27.28       20.53       6.75    3.70       3.05         2.13        +0.92
22.        In thie first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
nmostly from interest on investments.  Beginning 1.966/67, this pattern changed
when ARC began to expand rapidly its refinancing operations (para. 15). In
1969/70, interest received from loans and debentures reDresented 88io of total
income received.
23.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during tie first
four years of its existence, ARC's main items of expense at the time was
salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its expanded
operation, interest paid on borrowed mnoney has since 1967/68 been an
important item of exnenses. In 1969/70, interest paid on borrowings



ANNEX 4
Page 7
and salaries and employee benefits were J3% and 10%, respectively, of
total expenses.
24.       Until 1968/69 net income after taxes had not been sufficient to mieet
the statutory divident liability of 4-1/4% payable annually to ARC's initial
shareholders (para. 2) and the annual deficiency iiad to be made good by
COT in accordance wqith its guarantee under the law. ARC will lhave to
reimburse these amounts out of future profits. In 1968/69 however, profits
were sufficient to meet the statutory dividend and leave ARC with a small
surplus and this Dosition was significantly improved in 1969/70.  The
scale of future profits will largely depend on ARC's future borrowing rates
and the extent to which it lhas to borrow from the market at higher rates
than it has hitherto had to pay GOI.  To help offset this, steps are now
being taken to enable ARC to borrow from the National Agricultural Credit
(Lon-term Operations) Fund of RBI at concessional rates wihich, although
not yet fixed, might be at about 4--4/42. per annum.  This would broadly
enable ARC to maintain its interest margin. For illustrative purposes,
a five-year projection of ARC's future operating results is given at
Appendix 4-3; it does not take into account the probability of ARC borrowing
at lower rates from the RBI fund.
25.       ARC is in good financial condition.  Its equity position as of June
30, 1970, is unimpaired by losses and its assets were in GOI securities
anid debentures of land development banks, which are guaranteed by State
Governments. A five-year nrojection of ARC's financial condition is given
in Appendix 4-4.
26.       In accordance withl its charter, ARC's accounts are audited
annually by accountants duly qualified under the All India Companies Act
of 1956 (the present auditors are Mlessrs. K. S. Aiyar and Co.). Under the
same Charter, COI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India to examine and report on the accounts of ARC. To date, GOI ihas
not found the need to exercise tllis power.
May 12, 1971






INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF NET INCOME
1963/64           1964/65           1965/66           1966/67            1967/68           1968/69            1969/70
Rs       Z % of    Rs M    % of    Rs M       % of    RsM N       of    Rs M      % of    RsM H        of     RsM       X of
Total             Total             Total             Total              Total             Total              Total
Incom             Income            Income            Income             Income            Incom              Income
'mx-
Interest Received on Loans and
Debentures                                 -         -        -        -    1.09      25.1    3.06      61.4    4.83       80.5    10.20      92.4    24.09       88.31
Interest Received on Investnts           3.75    100.0    3.99    100.0    3.25        74.9    1.92      38.6    1.17       19.5      0.84      7.6      3.18      11.69
Total Income                        3.75    100.0    3.99    100.0    4.34    100.0    4.98    100.0    6.00    100.0    11.04    100.0    27.27    100.00
EXrES
Interest Paid                               -         -        -        -        -        -        -         -    0.46       7.8      4.42     40.0    17.07       62.60
Salaries, Allomences, Consultants'
Fees, and Employee Benefits             0.20       5.4    0.27       7.0    0.36       8.4    0.47        9.5    0.91      15.2      1.43      13.0     2.04       7.48
General and Administrative Expenses    0.09         2.5    0.10       2.6    0.11        2.6    0.13       2.6    0.29       4.8      0.43       3.9     1.42       5.21
Depreciation of Assets                   0.01       0.1    0.01       0.1    0.01       0.1    0.01        0.1    0.01       0.1      0.01       0.1     0.02       0.07
Total Expenses                      0.30       8.0    0.38       9.7    0.48      11.1    0.61      12.2    1.67       27.9     6.29      60.0    20.55       75.36
NET DIECE BEFORE TAXES                      3.45     92.0    3.61      90.3    3.86       88.9    4.37      87.8    4.33      72.0      4.75      43.0     6.72      24.64
Taxes Paid or Payable                    1.80      48.0    1.76      44.1    2.27       52.2    2.40      48.3    2.38      39.6      2.61      23.7     3.70      13.56
NET INCCHE AFTER TAXES                      1.65     44.0    1.85      46.2    1.59       36.7    1.97      39.5    1.95      32.4      2.14      19.3     3.02      11.08
March 8, 1971
41



INDIA
TAHL NADU AGRICULTURAL CIEDIT PROJECr
AGRICULTURAL IFINANCE CORP(BTION
PROJECTED STATEKNTS W NIT IlCOMf
1970/71                    1971V72                   1972/73                      1973/74                       197W75
Be X         % of          Rs N          % of          Rs x         % of         Re x           % Of            ab E         S of
Total Incm                  Total Incom                Total Inca_                Total Income                  Total InBom
INCOME
Interest Sarned on 1/t
IDA Projects 2/              5.12         10.8           23.50       30.3          49.85         41.7         65.80         42.0             66.oo       36.2
Other Loans                 41.52         87.5           53.20       68.6          68.90         57.6         90.00         57.5           115.70        63.4
Investment Interest            0.80          1.7            0.80        1.1           0.80          0.7          0.80          0.5             0.80         0.4
Total Incons      ;        7 b     I                  77                                     __            _            _                I.5 100l
EIPNS3ES
Interest Paid on:
IDA Funds 3/                 3.49          7.4           15.25       19.7          31.oo        25.9          42.50         27.1            46.00        25.2
Other Borrowings 4/         33.52         70.7           40.50       52.3          51.75         43.3         66.75         42.6            86.5o        47.4
Salaries and 'on-
sultants' Fees               3.50          7.4            6.oo        7.7           8.00          6.7         10.00          6.3             12.00        6.6
General AdnlLn Expenses        1.30          2.7            2. 0        2.6           3.00          2.5          3.50          2.2              4.00        2.2
Depreciation of Assets         0.02          -              0.03        -             0.05          -            0.05          -               0.05         -
Total Fxpenses           MM_at                         377         U_3          93.80         7E19         122.80        78.2            11.4
IhOME BHFO.R  rAIES           5.61          11.8           13.72       17.7          25.75        21.6          33.80         21.8            33.95        18.6
Income Tax Due                 0           6.5            7.55        9.7          14.40         11.9         18.60         11j.            19.70        10.2
NE  IN=E AFTER TAXES                                      ni7         f               3
1/ At 6-1'2% per annum on all loans made after Jly 1, 1970; 6% per aniun  Ca all earlier loan
F/ Oujarat, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, and Taxil Nadu Projects
7/ At 4-3/h% per annum
A/ An average of 5% per mum assumed
Februaar 26, 1971



INDIA
TAHIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
C WDENSED BALANCE SHEErS
1963/64        1964/65                1965/66               1966/67                1967/68                1968/69               1969/70
Change from           Change from            Change trom            Change from            Change from          Change from
RL_M  Ks a    Previous Date  Rs N  Previous Date   Rs M  Previous Date   Rs M  Previous Date   Rs M  Previous Date  Rs M  Previous Date
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in
Banks                    0.16   0.16       0.01        0.02      (0.15)       0.06      0.04         0.09      0.03        0.06      (0.03)      0.04      (0.02)
Invetne.ts              101.85  99-09      (2.76)      55.21    (43.88)       35.79    (19.42)        8.40    (27.39)       5.15      (3.26)     24.99      19.84
Loana                      -      -           -         1.47      1.47         3.03      1.56        7.35       4.32       25.49      18.15      42.93      17.44
Debeetures Purchased       -     4.50       4.50       47.53     43.03        66.73     19.20       119.04     52.31       278.55    159.52     546.04    367.49
Other Assets              0.80   1.02       0.21        2.34      1.33         3.38      1.04         6.46      3.08       13.58      .7.12      17.31       3.73
Total Assets         102.81 104.77       1.96      106.57      1.80       108.99      2.42       141.34     32.35      322.83    181.49      631.31    308.48
LI4BILITIES AND CAPlTAL
eQumn
Loan from Gev't of India
and others              50.00  50.00        -         50.00       -          50.00       -          80.00     30.00       257.50    177.50     556.88    299.38 1/
Special Deposits           -     1.13       1.13        2.39      1.26         3.64      1.26         4.90      1.26        6.15       1.25       7.40       1.25
Other Liabilities         2.81   3.64       0.83        4.18      0.54         5.35      l.lf         6.44      1.09         9.16      2.72      16.94       7.78
Total Liabilities      52.81  54.77       1.96       56.57      1.80        58.99      2.42        91.34     32-35      272.81    181.47      581.22    308.41
Capital - Paid-up        50.00  50.00        -         50.00       -          50.00       -          50.00       -          50.00       -        50.00        -
Reserves and Surplus       N       N         N           N         N            N         N            N         N           0.02      0.02       0.09       0.07
Total Capital Equity   50.00  50.00        N         50.00       N          50.00       a          50.00       N         50.02       0.02      50.09       0.07
Total Liabilities and
Capital Equity       102.81 104.77       1.96      106.57     1.80        108.99     2.42        141.34     32.35      322.83    181.49      631.31    308.48
Note 1/ includes Rs 110 million public bond issue made in January 1970 at 5 3/47 interest per annum repayable in 1982
N - Negligible
March 8, 1971--



TNDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL  -CDTTr PiOJ,T
AGRICULTURAL REFIMAX  cORp0RArIoN
PRoJECTED BALANCE SHEZTS
Tune 30, 197.                  June 30, 1772                 Junme 30, 1973             June 30. 197L                     June 30, 1975
Rs  M       5hange frolal/    Rs  H       Change from       Rs  M       Change from     R8           Change from         Rans        Cbhange from
Previous Date                 Previous Date                Previous Date                 Previous Date                  Previous Date
ASSETS
ash on hand and in Banks                0.10          0.06             0.10          -               0.15        0.05            0.15          _                 0.2-1        0.0
Investments                            5.00         (19.99)            5.oo         -                5.00         -             5.00           -                 5.00          -
Loans to Commercial Banks:
Tamil Nadu Project                     -             -              20.00       20.00             80.00       60.00         120.00         ho.on             I30.W0        10.00
Other IDA Projects 2/               20.00          20.00            830.00      60.00            115.00       35.31          80.00        (35.00)             60.(n       (20.00)
Others                              80.00          37.07          100.O        20.00            160.00      60.00          200.00         40.00             230..)0      30.00
Lending to LIIBs for:
Tamil Nadu Project                    -              -              20.00       20.00            a8.OO        60.00         120.00         40.00             120.00        10.00
Other IDA Projects                 135.00         135.00          436.00       301.'0            655.7'     219.00          670.71         15.00             580.no      (90.30)
L.MB Debentures                       700.00        153.96           840.00      160.00           1110.00      260o.0        14200.1        3011-.            1901.00       500. 0
Other Assets                          15.00          (2.31)           20.00        5.00             25. x        5.00          31.r0          5.n0              35.10         5.00
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Loans fro 00  (IDA funds)
ramil Nadu Project                    -              -             40.00        40.00            160.03     120.00          298.00        138.00             291LOO          -
Other Projects 3/                  135.00         135.00           422.00      287.00            616.03     194.00          655.no         39.00             655.oo          -
Other Loans from GOI
and Other Sources                  750.00         185.72           930.00      180.00           1256.00      326.00        1470.0.)       214.o))          1902 .DO      432.00
Other Liabilities                     19.60           2.66            26.69        7.08             30.75        4.07           35.92         5.17              40.09         4.17
W0.6           27             ii5          540              EF§77        644.0         -0 7           396.1              095.09       or-.17
3023.37   -                                           _.       66. 07         95I7 9         TOI7
Capital Paid-up                                                    -15575-  -                                                                                                  -77  1
Reserves
At Beginning of Year                 0.09            _               0.50         _                2.42         -              7.40          -                16.23          _
Projected Net Income                 2.53                           6.17          -               11.35                      15.20           -                15.25          _
Total Available                      2.62            _              6.67          -               13.77         _            22.60           -                31.48          _
.mandatory Dividend Due _,           2.12                            4 4.25       -                6.37         -             6.37           -                 6.37          -
At End of Year                       0.50           0.41             2.42        1.92              7.40       4.98           16.23          d.83              25.11        8.88
Total Capital Equity                   MM_           -_._ T_-. -_-7Z                               i5r5          77T          '1560.23       -9:57             V7Sr         *.dw
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND EQUIrY                         955.10         323.79          1521.10      566.0°           2220.15      69,)05        2625.15        605.30            3373.2C      is45.05
1/  Sea Appendix 3-3
7/  Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana Projects
I/  Gujarat, Pbnjab, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana Projects
k' Although nandatory dividend of 4-1/4% only applies to the initial Rs 51 million equity capital, this rate of diviuend
has been included on all issued equity capital in the above table.
March 8, 1971



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TAMIL NADU COOPERATIVE STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
AND PRDMARY LAND DEVELOPMENT BANKS
A. The Structure of the Tamil Nadu Land Development Bank System
Background
1.        The land development banking structure in Tamil Nadu, as that in
Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, is federal in nature with the Primary Banks
operating at the lower administrative unit levels and federated into the
Cooperative State Land Development Bank (LDB) at the state level. Although
each of the Primary Banks is theoretically independent, LDB has the powers
to control their operations as it is the only permitted source of their
borrowings and can withhold funds from any Bank which did not meet its
requirements.
2.        In many aspects therefore, LDB and its federated Primaries can be
considered as a single entity with an operational relationship similar to
that of a bank head office to its branches. Thus the Primaries (under LDB
direction and guidance) are responsible for making loans to their members
while LDB wholly refinances the Primaries' lending.
Recent developments
3.        In September 1969, the Tamil Nadu State Government brought into
effect new legislation (Act 14 of 1969) which brought considerable changes
into the LDB system. The most important of these were powers conferred
on the State Government to establish as many Primary Banks as it
considered necessary and to appoint members of the Primary Banks board of
directors and its managers. Under the previous arrangements, new Primary
Banks were established on the recommendation of LDB and the appointment of
Bank managers was the responsibility of its board (though latterly with LDB
taking an increasing interest to ensure their suitability). The effect of
the legislation was therefore to reverse the general trend in India of
developing the federal LDB systems into integrated organizational and
management structures.
4.        Arising out of this new legislation the State Government subse-
quently announced its intention of changing the distribution basis of the
Primaries from one per taluk (the sub-division of a district) to one per
development block (the sub-division of a taluk) and thereby of increasing



ANNEX 5
Page 2
the number of such banks from 106 to 375 by a target date of February 1972.
As of September 30, 1970 the number of Primary Banks had been increasedi to
173.
5.        The declared purpose of the new plan was to bring the facilities
of LDB long-term credit closer to the farmer: the State Government consid-
ered this more important after it handed over to LDB the responsibilities it
previously exercised for long-termn on-farm lending. However, the proposed
rate of new Primary Bank open-lngs, which would have had to average about 3
a week if the target was to have been achieved, presented many serious prob-
lems:
(i)  sufficient qualified and experienced staff were not
available within the LDB system to manage the new
banks. To meet this situation the State Government
seconded staff, suclh as rural development officers,
to manage many of the new banks and, as they lacked
banking experience it was doubtful whether a number
of Primaries would have the ability to carry out the
proposed program in accordance with Project objectives;
(ii)  Although LDB's loan portfolio has doubled in the last
two years and can be expected to continue to grow at
a fast rate it will take some time before many of the
new Primaries can become financially independent and
many in the areas of low development potential may
never become viable. As there is no obligation on
the original taluk Primaries to hand-over that part
of their portfolio now outside their jurisdiction to
the new banks (and most have refused to do) their
viability will depend on the volume of new lending.
A portfolio of Rs 2 million is generally considered
the minimum required for a Primary to be profitable
and thus an additional investment of Rs 400 million
would be required to bring 200 new banks to profita-
bility. As of June 30, 1970, LDB's loan portfolio
amounted to Rs 545 million while total Project lending
envisaged over the 2-1/2 year program would be Rs 344
million. Although the State Government agreed to sub-
sidize part of the Primaries' expenses over the first
three years of their operations, in most cases this
would not be long enough to enable them to break even;
(iii)  The proliferation of Primary Banks would inevitably
place an increased administrative burden on LDB
at a time wlhen it needs to concentrate its activities
on problems arising out of the growing lending program.
Insofar as banking standards may be expected to
decline, an increase in overdues would affect LDB's
financial position.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        To meet this situation, the State Government agreed in September
1970 to open no more than 50 additional Primaries before negotiations when
the matter would be further discussed. At negotiations, the representative
of the State Government stated that it had decided only to open further Pri-
maries in special circumstances and then only with ARC agreement and that
Primary Banks which had no prospect of becoming viable would be merged. While
formal representations are required to confirm this position, the LDB system
can, in the changed circumstances, be considered suitable for Project lend-
ing. Some of the Primary Banks may not, as a result of the expansion which
has already taken place, meet the required banking standards and in these
areas, which are expected to be limited, commercial banks would be capable
and willing to carry out lending under the Project. Detailed banking arrange-
ments should, however, be worked out before credit effectiveness and banks
selected in accordance with the criteria set out in Appendix 5-1. The cri-
teria have been agreed with the parties concerned.
B. The Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank Ltd.
Organization
7.        LDB is the successor to the Madras Cooperative Central Land
Mortgage Bank which was established in 1929 and operates under the Tamil
Nadu Cooperative Land Mortgage Banks Act of 1934. LDB's head office is
at Madras, the state capital, and for administrative purposes it has
established 11 district branch offices.
8.        Under the General Body, with powers equivalent to an annual
general meeting of shareholders in a joint stock company, LMB's affairs
are directed by a board of 56 members (increased from 22 in late 1969)
of which 45 are nominated by the Primary Banks, 10 by debenture holders
together with the Registrar of Cooperatives. As of September 1970, the
Board had not delegated any of its functions to committees but proposals
were under consideration to do this.
9.        The Secretary iR LDB's chief executive officer and is appointed
by the Board of Directors though the State Government has the power to
nominate. Under him there are four assistant secretaries and a chief
accountant who are in charge of head office departments and eleven assis-
tant secretaries who head the district branch offices. These branch
offices are responsible for approving any loan of Rs 5,000 and above
recommended by Primary Banks, for checking land titles and for inspecting
Primary Banks' accounts. The last of these however receives relatively
low priority and more inspectors should be appointed to strengthen this
activity. As of September 1970, LDB's total establishment was nearly 270
of which 180 were employed in branch offices.
10.       As in the case of similar institutions elsewhere in India,
LDB has historically been more concerned with the collateral rather than
the developmental aspects of its investments and, until recently it



ANNEX 5
Page 4
employed no specialist staff. In 1970 however it appointed a geologist
and a farm mechanization expert to form the nucleus of a technical cadre
which would be able to advise LDB's management on specialist aspects of
proposed investments. Tn order to strengthen this cadre it is now necessary
to appoint a senior agricultural economist and a water engineer. LDB is
already giving consideration to these and other specialist appointments.
It would be advisable however that LDB should not expand its technical
cadre too quickly or without carefully considering its functions and
direction. The main need is for LDB to have adequate expertise to check
the reliability of technical data relating to broad investment types and
establish models rather than appraise a large number of individual farm
projects. The latter is best carried out by staff of the State Government's
technical departments as at present (para 16).
Source of Funds
11.       As an apex organization, LDB's share capital is contributed by
the Primary Banks (at the rate of 4% of borrowings from LDB) and the
Tamil Nadu State Government. The proportion of Primaries' and the State
Governments equity holdings is subject to periodic review by the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI). As of June 30, 1970 LDB's total subscribed capital
was Rs 27.7 million of which the State Government's holdings was Rs 4.5
mi:Llion. At the same date LDB's statutory reserves totalled Rs 9.2
million representing about 2% of its loan portfolio.
12.       In addition and apart from short-term bridging finance provided
by commercial banks, LDB's borrowings derive from the issue of debentures.
These are guaranteed by the State Government as to the payment of interest
and repayment of principal and are secured by the mortgages financed from
the proceeds of a particular debenture issue. As in the case of other
state land development banks in India, LDB floats three types of debentures:
(a)  ordinary or regular debentures 50% of which are purchased
by the Life Insurance Corporation of India, the State Bank
of India and RBI under pre-arranged quotas, the balance being
sold on the open market (but largely taken up by other
institutional investors). In 1968/69 1/ interest rates were
6% per annum on 15 year debentures issued at par and 5-3/4%
on 10 year debentures issued at 98.5%.
(b)  rural debentures which are sold only to individuals since
their purpose is to encourage the mobilization of local
savings. To stimulate their sale, RBI subscribes in the
ratio of eight for every seven rural debentures sold to
private persons and receives interest at 1% less than the
1/   As of February 15, 1971 LDB's Report for the year ended June 30, 1970
had not been received. Although LDB's audited accounts for that year
had been received, full financial data for 1969/70 was not available and
figures for the previous year are given where necessary.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
regular rate. In 1968/69 seven year debentures issued at
par carried 6-1/4% interest per annum.
(c) special debentures which are issued for financing projects
approved by ARC. They are subscribed by ARC for the State
Government in proportions decided by ARC reflecting ARC's
refinancing of different types of investment. In November
1970, ARC increased the rate of interest on future debenture
issues by 1/2% to 6-1/2% per annum.
LDB's borrowings may not exceed 25 times paid-up share capital and reserves.
13.       The following table shows the growth of LDB's outstanding borrowings
as of the dates shown (Rs million):
June 30, 1968    June 30, 1969    June 30, 1970
Ordinary Debentures               277.6             401.9             552.1
Rural Debentures                   13.8              13.9               23.6
Special Debentures                 24.0              40.3               56.8
Commercial bank and other loans   3.5                21.7                1.2
Total                        318.9             477.8             633.7
Significant figures in tlle above table are the relatively small amount
of borrowings from ARC under special debentures (and thus ARC's small
influence on LDB's lending policies) and, as elsewhere, the very small
contribution made by non-institutional investors through the rural
debenture scheme: this is at least partly attributable to the unattractive
terms attaching to these debentures. It is estimated that as of June 30,
1970 farmers' financial participation in the LDB system through share and
debenture holdings totalled about Rs 39 million.
C. Primary Land Development Banks
Organization and Management
14.       As of September 30, 1970, these were 173 Primary Banks operating
in Tamil Nadu with a total membership of 500,000. Membership of the
Primaries falls into two types. First, the regular (or A Class) membership
is open to individuals and cooperative farming, tubewell and irrigation
societies. Such members must at present be landowners and thus able to
offer the security of land: accordingly only A Class members are at
present entitled to borrow. Second, there is the associate (or B
Class) membership made up of individuals who are co-partners or who
have some interest in the title of A Class members. This class of
membership exists to facilitate the execution of mortgage deeds in favor of
regular members who otherwise would have insufficient collateral to borrow.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Only A Class members have voting rights and are entitled to any
(ividends wqhich the Primaries may declare.
15.       The direction and management of each Primary Bank follows the LDB
pattern with overall control vested in the general meeting and with a 13oard
of Directors of 9 members: when a Primary is first established, the
membership of its board is nominated by the State Government.  T`he
Secretary of each Primary is the cilief executive who also may be nominated
by Lhe State Government.  LI ti however has plans to put Primary Bank secre-
taries on its own staff 2stablishment and thus follow the practice which
is being adopted by similar institutions elsewhere in India.  The Primaries
main independent LunTctions are the approval of loans, the appointment of
staff and the declaration of dividends (at present limited to 6% though
in practice most pay 3%).
16.       Three categories of staff are involved in the appraisal of
schemes for which LDB loans are sought. First there are the Primary
Bank's own supervisory staff who are concerned with the processing of
loan applications and coordinate the completion of formalities. Second
are staff of the State Government's cooperative department who, apart
from exercising their usual audit functions are also in Tamil Nadu
responsible for investigating title and valuing land. Third are staff
of the State Government's technical departments (agriculture and public
works) who carry out the technical evaluations of schemes.  In each
district a Government Project Officer coordinates the activities of the
Primary Bank, technical departments and the administration.
17.       While it is sound practice that specialist expertise for
appraisals should be provided by technical departments as required, the
exceptional amount of functions carried out by the cooperative department
have reduced the Primaries responsibilities virtually to a coordinating
role and because of this, LDB's own control over the Primaries is very
limited. Many of the new Primary Banks have virtually reached the
position of being mere disbursement agents for the State Government with
refinancing through LDB: this trend if further accentuated by the State
Governnient's willingness to provide a guarantee where the value of the
mortgageable asset is insufficient to secure a loan (para 23).
18.       As a first step in rectifying this position and developing the
LD)B system into an integrated banking structure, TDB needs to strengthen
it.s financial control of Primary Banks by appointing more field inspectors
to its district branchi offices and rely less on the periodic audits carried
otut by the cooperative department. At a later state, the Primaries,
supported by LDB should take over responsibility for land valuation, a
normal banking operation, from the department. Consideration should also
be given to the complicated arrangement of subsidies given by the State
Government to LDB and the Primaries to meet staff costs and contra sub-
ventions made by LDB to the Government for some cooperative department
st:aff. This should be done as part of the plans to be sujbmitted for the
reorganization of the Primary Banks (para 6) to ensture the ultimate
financial independence of the system1.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Sources of Funds
19.       Each Primary Bank has a separate issued share capital wholly
subscribed by the regular members. Any farmer taking a loan is required
to hold shares to the value of 5% of the loan (which may not be reduced
until the loan is wholly repaid) and this accounts for the greater part
of the share capital, the balance being subscribed by the non-borrowing
(or former borrowing) members. The Primaries on-invest in LDB's share
capital at the rate of 4% of borrowings and are thus left with a 1%
balance. Short-term bridging finance is provided by LDB prior to the
formalizing of refinancing arrangements.
D. Overall Lending Procedures and Operations
Loan Procedures
20.       The Primary Banks lend for (and thus LDB refinances) a wide
range of agricultural purposes on medium- and long-term. The purposes
include:
(1) the construction, improvement and major repairs to minor
irrigation works;
(2) land drainage, reclamation and improvement;
(3) construction of farm buildings (excluding housing);
(4) purchase of farm machinery including tractors and
implements;
(5) purchase of land occupancy rights and redemption of
mortgages; and
(6) such other purposes as the Board may determine to be
for land improvement or agricultural production.
Because of the shortage of funds, LDB has laid down a limit of Rs 40,000
per loan.
Lending Procedures
21.       Applications for a loan have to be made to the Primary Bank of
which the applicant is a member. All applicants are required to deposit a
fee at the rate of Rs 0.5 per Rs 100 of the proposed loan, the final fee
being determined on such amount of loan as may be eventually sanctioned.
22.       Apart from the technical feasibility of the proposed investment,
loan appraisal consists essentially of a review of the title to the property
of the applicant and of an assessment of its value made by a member of



ANNEX 5
Page 8
thie cooperative department's staff and, where necessary, additionally by
LDB's legal staff at the branch office level.
23.       LDB's uses two methods of valuation.  First, for general loans
vie  not ARC refinanced) LDB takes 75% of the existing value of land for
minor irrigation and farm mechanization investments and 50% of the existing
value of land for all other investment purposes. Thus for minor irrigation
aidj farm mechanization purposes land valued at Rs 6,000 would permit a
loaa of Rs 4,500; for other purposes security would permit a loan of
l's 3,000.  Second, for all loans made under ARC schemes, LDB takes 50%
of) tte value of the existing value of land plus the value of the proposed
ifnaestment coSt.  i'hius land valued at Rs 6,000 plus proposed investment
cost of Rs o.000 would bring total assessed security to Rs 12,000 and a
loan eligibility of Rs 6,000.  The method of assessment under ARC
.hi-.(!2me.2s ttierefore permits highler lending levels than that applying under
geaeral lending. This is further exaggerated by the fact that the basis
of latnd valuation, which is the average of sales in the village over the
rre,ious five years, is more conservative than that applied in some other
states .
24.       When a loan has been approved, if necessary by LDB (para 9)
disbursements are made in the case of the purchase of land, tractors or
machinery or of expenditures for land levelling or well drilling by
conLtractors to the third parties concerned, and loans for other purposes are
lsilutred in instalmenits after proper utilization confirmation has been
oblia1ied.  All payments are made by checks drawn on the bankers of the
P-:rinarias and every borrower's investment is inspected after final disburse-
mesIt. I.BDI subsequently advances loans to the Primaries against the security
of mlortgages collected by them, LDB's loan periods matching those of thte
Primartls' lending to their members.
Leriding Terms and Interest Rates
'5.       Apart from the 5% shareholding requirement, farmers have not
hitherto beeni required to make any downpayment contribution towards their
i-ivestments.  lowever loan scales for land levelling have in effect
resulted in farmers having to make a contribution of about 20% of investment
cost, usually taking the form of the farmers' own labor. Loan periods at
prcsent range from 12 years for land levelling, 10 years for minor irrigation
in,vestments, 8 years for tractors and 7 years for th-e purchase of pump sets.
All loan are repayable by equal annual instalments.
2b.       The present lending rate from the Primaries to individual
farmers is 8-3/4% per annum on ARC schemes and 8-1/4% on general lending.
Againist these rates, LDB refinances the Primaries at 7-3/4% and 7-1/4%
respectively thus giving them an overall margin of 1% per annum. LDB's
margin fluctuates in accordance with its borrowing rates but on current
lendiing and borrowing rates its overall is about 1-1/4%.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Lending Operations
27.       LDB's loan portfolio has risen sharply in the last two years
from Rs 263 million as of June 30, 1968 to Rs 545 million at June 30, 1970,
representing an increase of 107%. The number of loans approved has
similarly increased and in 1968/69 amounted to about 38,000. Minor irriga-
tion loans have been the largest element in LMB's portfolio representing
about 70% with loans for farm mechanization and land levelling following
in importance. In 1968/69 approximately 47% of all loans approved were for
amounts over Rs 5,000.
E. Overall Operational Results
28.       The following table shows LDB's expenditures, income and profits,
also expressed as a percentage of average funds employed, during the last
three years:
1967/68           1968/69            1969/70
Average Funds Employed Rs 343.3 million Rs 446.2 million Rs 612.5 million
% of              % of               % of
average           average           average
Rs M      funds  Rs M        funds  Rs M        funds
Interest                15.9       4.63   23.1       5.18   33.3       5.44
Other                    2.0       0.58    2.9       0.65    4.0        0.65
Total Expenditures      17.9       5.21   26.0       5.83   37.3        6.09
Profit                   1.7       0.49    1.7       0.38    2.6        0.42
Total Income            19.6       5.70   27.7       6.21   39.9        6.51
Although LDB significantly increased its profit margin in 1969/70 over
1968/69, the level of profits were low compared with some other Land
M4ortgage and Development Banks in India with which IDA is associated.
Thus the 0.42% margin on average funds employed in the Tamil Nadu LDB
in 1969/70 compares with 0.88% for Gujarat LDB (1968/69) and 0.67% for
Andhra Pradesh LMB (1968/69). For 1968/69, the Tamil Nadu LDB paid a
dividend of 5-3/4%.
29.       With the uncertainties concerning the overall development of the
LDB system generally in the next few years, it is particularly difficult
to forecast the demands and additional administrative costs which will
fall on LDB. It is evident however that in addition to the need to improve
its profit position, LDB will need to strengthen its staff and, incremental
expenses can be expected to be greater than incremental income in the
immediate future. At the Primary level, where 13 banks made a loss in
1968/69, a strengthening of staff both quantitatively and qualitatively is
essential. To meet this position it is proposed that LDB's lending rate to



ANNEX 5
Page 10
the Primary Banks be standardized at 7-3/4% on all lending and that the
Primaries' lending rate be increased to a standard 9%. This would result in
an additional margin of a little under 1/4Z per annum to LDB and of 1/4%
to the Primaries. In addition the Primaries should retain the proceeds
of a 1/2% evaluation fee to be charged on the cost of all investments.
These proposals would bring lending terms in line with those applying to
other LDB's and LMB's under IDA supported projects. Details of LDB's
past accounts are given at Appendices 5-2 and 5-4 and projections of its
future financial position at Appendices 5-3 and 5-5. The projections assume
that one-half of the Project lending program would be channelled through LDE.
30.       LDB had no overdues in 1967/68 but in 1968/69 there was a small
shortfall of 0.2% of collections due from the Primaries, increasing to 1.5%
in 1969/70.  At the Primary Bank level, the amount of overdues increased
from 8,2% in 1967/68 to 10.8% in 1968/69 and 12.1% in 1969/70.  Althouglh
these figures show some decline, the present position is not unsatisfactory
but it should not be allowed to deteriorate further.  Subject to the overall
qualification on future development plans, LDB can be considered to be in
sound condition and the risk element is negligible as all loans are amply
secured.
31.       The accounts of LDB and the Primary Banks audited by independent
accountants in the Cooperative department in accordance with the practice
whlch is common throughout India.  Apart from the lack of consistency in
their treatment and presentation when compared with similar institutions
elsewhere in India (a matter which ARC has agreed to assist in rectifying)
the accountancy system is sound.
May 12, 1971



APPENDIX 5-1
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CRITERIA TO BE APPLIED TO PROPOSALS REGARDING LDB
AND TAMIL NADU BANKING ARRANGEMENTS
1.        With regard to the distribution and organization of Primary Banks
of the Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank (LDB), the scope
of the information to be provided by ARC to the Association will include the
following matters:
(1)  The intention of the Tamil Nadu State Government and LDB
as ascertained respectively from them by ARC to the policy
they would follow:
(a) in opening new Primary Banks (if any), the circum-
stances in which such new Primary Banks might be
opened and the ways by which they would envisage
extending the LDB system in future;
(b) regarding such existing Primary Banks which ap-
peared unlikely to be financially independent
within three years of opening or which for other
reasons ARC would consider unsuitable for Project
lending.
(2)  The present intentions of the Tamil Nadu State Government
regarding the financial and other support which it would
give to those Primary Banks which are not financially in-
dependent and to the LDB system generally.
(3)  ARC's opinion whether the distribution and organization
of Primary Banks to be outlined together with their man-
agement capacity would ensure the financial independence,
sound management and supervision capacity of LDB in ac-
cordance with standards generally applying in India.
2.        With regard to the nomination of banks in the areas of Project
lending, ARC will in the first instance nominate Primary Banks in accordance
with the following criteria:
(1)  their financial independence which should normally be
achieved within three years of opening;
(2)  except for the initial establishment period of not more
than three years, such banks should not be dependent on



APPENDIX 5-1
Page 2
Government or other subsidies; the extent of such sub-
sidies in the establishment period would be defined;
(3)  (a)  the existence of suitable staffing both quantita-
tively and qualitatively to provide an adequate
level of administrative and technical supervision
as required for Project lending: such assessment
would take into account the expected effects of
agreed trainitng programs.
(b) in due course ARC may nominate more banks which,
though not initially conforming to the above cri-
teria may do so during the currency of Project
lending.
3.        Where Primary Banks were not initially suitable for Project lending
or where Primary Banks were considered to require supplementary support from
other lending institutions, ARC will nominate commercial banks for Project
lending in accordance with the following criteria:
(1) the past experience of such banks in lending for agri-
cultural purposes;
(2) the bank's capacity to provide supervised credit with
adequate technical supports
4.        In submitting names of banks in Project areas ARC will provide
relevant information including:
(1) the number of years each Primary Bank/branch has been
operating;
(2) in the circumstances where a Primary Bank has been in-
cluded as a result of an organization or other change
of arrangements, details of such changes;
(3) where a Primary Bank has been excluded the reasons for
such exclusion;
(4) brief financial details of the Primary Banks included
in the lending arrangements;
(5) the area of jurisdiction of each Primary Bank/branch
nominated;
(6) any limitations in investment purposes for which a
Primary Bank/branch may lend.
May 12, 1971



I N D I A
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TAMIL NADU COOPERATIVE STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF NET INCOME
1965/66                      1966/67                       1967/68                       1968/69                      1969/70
%  of                        %  of                         % of                         %  of                         %  of
Rs  M   Total Income         Rs  M   Total Income         Rs  M   Total Income         Rs  M   Total Income         Rs  M   Total Income
I N C O M E
Interest Received on:
Loans                                         -            -              12.50        78.6             15.46      78.9              22.78        82.1             -            -
Investments                                   -            -              3.30         20.8             4.14       21.1              4.97         17.9             -            -
Total Interest Received                       13.73        99.6             15.80        99.4             19.60    100.0               27.75       100.0            39.85       100.0
Miscellaneous                                   .06         0.4              0.10         0.6               -         -                  -           -                             -
Total Income                       13.79       100.0             15.90       100.0             19.60    100.0               27.75       100.0            39.85        100.0
E X P E N S E S
Interest Paid on Debentures and Loans         10.00        72.5             12.18        76.6             15.92      81.2              23.15        83.4            33.30         83.6
Establishment costs
Own Staff                                    0.49         3.6              0.72         4.5              0.73       3.7               1.02         3.7             1.37          3.4
Goverrment Staff                             0.55         3.9              0.63         4.0              0.63       3.2               0.73         2.6             1.08          2.7
Total Establishment Costs                      1.04         7.5              1.35         8.5              1.36       6.9               1.75         6.3             2.45          6.1
Other Expenditures                             1.10         8.0              0.70         4.4              0.65       3.4               1.15         4.2             1.51          3.8
Total Expenses                     12.14        88.0             14.23        89.5             17.93      91.5              26.05        93.9            37.26         93.5
N E T   I N C 0 M E                            1.65        12.0              1.67        10.5              1.67       8.5               1.70         6.1             2.59          6.5
March 8, 1971






I N D I A
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TAIIIL NMMIJ COOPERATIVE STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT SANK LTD
PROJECTED STATEMENTS OF NET INCOME
1970/71                      1971/72                      1972/73                      1973/74
I  of                         Z  of                        1 of                        1  of
1g _     Total Income        Rs N     Total Income        Rs K     Total Income        Rs N      Total Inco.
I N C 0 N E
Interest Received on:
Project Loans I/         2          -            -              1.15          1.7            4.65          5.6            8.15           8.3
Other Loans & Investments-         554.20       99.6           67.95          9.8           77.40         93.8           89.48          91.3
Total Interest Received              54.20        99.6           69.10         99.5           82.05         99.4           97.63          99.6
Miscellaneous                         0.20         0.4            0.40          0.5            0.45          0.6            0.37            .4
Total Income               54.40        100.0          69.50         100.0          82.50         100.0           98.00        100.0
X PFE N S E S
Interest Paid on:
Loans on account of Project3/       -            -               .97          1.4            3.90          4.7            6.82           7.0
Other Debentures and Loansl/      44.70         82.2           56.70         81.6           64.57         78.3           74.03          75.5
Totallr.terest Paid                  64.70        82.2           57.67           3.0          68.47         83.0           80.85          82.5
Salaries and Allowances             3.20         5.9            3.50          5.0            4.00          4.8            4.15           4.2
Other expenditures                  2.50         4.6            2.83          4.1            2.53          3.1            3.00           3.1
Total Expenses             50.40         92.7          64.00          92.1           75.00         90.9           88.00          89.8
N E T  I N C O  E e                   4.00         7.3            5.50          7.9            7.50           9.1          10.00          10.2
/ Assumes 7-3/4% interest per annus
2/ Assumes 7i7% interest per annum on loans mde to June 30, 1971, thereafter 7-3/4% and 5% on investments in 1970/71 rising to 61 in
1973J74
3/ Assumes 6A4 interest per annum
4/ Assumes an average of 6% per tnm   rising to 6-3/8 Z in 1973/74,
February 26, 1971



I N D I A
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TAMIL NADU COOPERATIVE STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
Juae 30, 1966         June 30. 1967                    June 30. 1968               June 30. 1969                 June 30. 1970
Change from                   Change from                  Change from                  Change from
Rs N           RB E     Previous Date        Rs M     Previous Date       Rs M      Previous Date      Rs M      Previous Date
ASSETS
Casb on Land and with Banks              0.69           0.60            (0.09)        2.70           2.10          1.36           (1-34)         4.33          2.97
Investments                             63.07          69.01            5.94         82.51          13.50         94.48          11.97        132.15          37.67
Loans to Banks                         178.46         207.75           29.29        263.16          55.41        419.68         156.52         544.96        125.28
Other Assets                             8.27           9.27             1.00        11.7.2          2.45         16.79            5.07         21.33          4.54
Total Assets                      250.49                             14         60.09          73.46        532.31         172.22        702.77        170.46
LIUrLITIES AND EUnITY CA*rTAL
Debentures                             322.05         248.64           26.59        315.39          66.75        456.07         140.68        632.53         176.46
Loans and Overdrafts                     5.10           9.55            4.45         10.31           0.76         35.23          24.92          11.11        (24.12)
Other Liabilities                        3.10           5.04             1.94         7.56           2.52         11.70            4.14         18.28          6.58
Total Liabilities                2-2 2m' -, 2A                    32.9 .fl-26                  70.03       203.00           -C7          ff-1.2        -AS,
Capital Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital                   12.32          13.62             1.30        16.11           2.49         17.64            1.53         27.74         10.10
Reserves and Net Income                  7.92           9.78             1.86         10.72          0.94         11.67            0.95         13.11          1.44
Total Capital                     20.24          23.40            3.16         26.83           3.43         29.31           2.48         40.85          11.54
Total LiabilitLes and tdqay
Copiti             l   i            2049                                                        373.46                 ,2.172 22                77        170.46
7ebruar, 9. 1971



I N D I A
TAMIIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TAMIL NADU COOPERATIVE STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANR LTD
PROJECTED BAIANCE SHEETS
June 30. 1971                June 30. 1972                  June 30. 1973                   June 30. 1974
(3~anae fro_1                  Change from                    Change fro                     Change from
as M      Previous Date       Rs M       Previous Date       Rs !       Previous Date        Rs M      Previous Date
AStS
Cah on Had  and with Bans          2.19          (2.14)         3.00            0.81           7.00            4.00            10.00          3.00
awstments                        175.00          42.85        212.00           37.00         237.00           25.00          285.00          48.00
Loas to Priwries:  Projecti/        -              -           30.00           30.00         100.00           70.00           130.00         30.00
Other       700.00        155.04         350.00         150.00          950.00         100.00         1,100.00         150.00
Otbar Assts                       30.00           8.67         35.00            5.00          40.00            5.00            45.00          5.00
Total Assets                  907-19         204.42       130.00           222.81       1.334.00          204.00         1 570.00        236.00
LIAIIRTIES AND E0UTY CAPL
Ddbotures:  Project                -              -            30.00           30.00         100.00           70.00          140.00          40.00
Other               8O.00          167.47      1,000.00          200.00       1,100.00          100.00        1,250.00         150.00
lnas and Overdrafts               45.00          33.89         25.00          (20.00)         45.00           20.00            60.00          15.00
Other Liabilities                 15.00          (3.28)        18.78            3.78          20.50            1.72            38.20         17.70
Total Liabilities             860.00         198.08      1,073.78          213.78       1,265.50          191.72        1,488.20         222.70
Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital           32.00           4.26         38.00            6.00          46.00            8.00            53.00          7.00
Reserves
At begining of year              13.11                       15.19                           18.22                           22.50
Add met Income                   4.00                         5.50                            7.50                           10.00
Total Available                 17.11                        20.69                           25.72                           32.50
Dividends  aiad2l                 1.92                         2.47                           3.22                            3.70
At End of Year                   15.19          2.08          18.22           3.03           22.50           4.28            28.80           6.30
Total Equity                  47.19           6.34         56.22            9.03          68.50           12.28            81.80          13.30
Total Liabilities and
Equity                 907.19         204.42      1,130.00          222.81       1,334.00          204.00         1,570.00        236.00
1/ See Appendix 5-4
2/ Assumes about 501 of Project lending.
3/ Assumes 6I dividend for 1971, 61% for 1972 and 7% for 1973 and 1974.
March 8, 1971






ANNEX 6
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECr
COMMERCIAL BANKS OPERATING IN TAMIL NADU
(as of September 1970)
Nationalized Banks                                   Number of Branches
Allahabad Bank                                                  1
Bank of Baroda                                                 31
Bank of India                                                  16
Canara Bank                                                   121
Central Bank of India                                          55
Dena Bank                                                       3
Indian Bank                                                   186
Indian Overseas Bank                                          141
Punjab National Bank                                           33
State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur                                3
State Bank of Hyderabad                                         2
State Bank of India                                           171
State Bank of Mysore                                            3
State Bank of Travancore                                       13
Syndicate Bank                                                 32
Union Bank of India                                            25
United Bank of India                                            4
United Commercial Bank                                         20
Banks under Private Ownership
Andhra Bank Ltd.                                               10
Bank of America NT & SA                                         1
Bank of Madura Ltd.                                            76
Canara Banking Corporation Ltd.                                 9
Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd.                                       9
Chartered Bank                                                  2
Eastern Bank                                                    1
First National City Bank                                        2
Karnataka Bank Ltd.                                             1
Karur Vysya Bank Ltd.                                          46
Kumbakonam City Union Bank Ltd.                                26
Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd.                                        49
Mercantile Bank Ltd.                                            1
National and Grindlays Bank Ltd.                                5
Nedungadi Bank Ltd.                                             4
South India Bank Ltd. (Tinnevelly)                             27
South Indian Bank Ltd.                                         20
Tamil Nadu Mercantile Bank Ltd.                                10
Tanjore Permanent Bank Ltd.                                    61
Vijaya Bank Ltd.                                                5
Vysya Bank Ltd.                                                 1
Note: All of the above banks are scheduled i.e. are included under the Sec-
ond Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1935. They have paid-
up capital and reserves of at least Rs 5 million and are entitled to
certain borrowing facilities from the Reserve Bank of India.
February 26, 1971






IND IA
TAltIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
DETAILS OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
First Year                 Second Year                   Third Year                    Total Project
Unit Cost        Units      Total Cost         Units      Total Cost         Units       Total Cost        Units            Cost
RsM                           RsM                           RsM                             RsM
1. Minor Irrigation
Filter Points                     9,000            2,000       18.00            3,500        31.50             1,500       13.50             7,000         63.00
Shallov Tubevells                22,500            1,075       24.20            1,650        37.10             1,075       24.20             3,800         85.S0
Medium Tubeells   2/             30,000              200        6.00               400        12.00              160         4.80              760         22.80
Electric Pum  Sets -              7,500            1,000        7.50             2,000       15.00             1,000         7.50            4,000         30.00
Dugvell Development                  -               -         30.00               -         60.00               _         35.00               -          125.00
Total Minor Irrigation               -               -         85.70               -        155.60               -          85.00              -          326.30
2.  Lad Levelling                        2,000           7,000(ha)   14.00             3,000(ha)    6.00                            -             10,000(ha)    20.00
3.  Land Drainage and Iwroveaent           500           2,000(ha)    1.00             8,000(ha)    4.00             8,000(ha)    4.00            18,000(hs)       9.00
4.  rractors
35 hp                             26,500             200        5.30               600        15.90              200         5.30            1,000         26.50
50 hp                            30 000              100        3.00               300         9.00              100         3.00              500         15 00
Total Tractors                       -               300         8.30              900        24.90              300         8.30            1,500         41.50
5.  Tractor luple ents 3/               various            -           3.90              -          11.70              -           3.90              -           19.50
Total Investment Program               -               -         112.90              -         202.20              -         101.20              -          416.30
6.  Tractor So re Parts                    -               -           1.00              -           2.90              -           1.00              -            4.90
7. Project Equinmant 4
Drilling Rigs                        -               -          16.40              -            -                -            -                -           16.40
Earth Having Machinery               -               -           7.80              -            -                -            -                -            7.80
Total Project Equipment              -               -         24.20               -            -                -            -                -           24.20
8. Technical Assistance 5/
Groundwater Directorate              -               -           0.50              -           1.20              -           0.50              -            2.20
Aerial Survey                                                    5.00              -          10.00              -           5.00              -           20.00
Total Technical Assistance           -               -           5.50              -          11.20              -           5.50              -           22.20
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     -               -         143.60              -         216.30              -         107.70              -          467.60
1/ Representing six onths expenditure approvals.
2/  For existing non-energized filter points.
3/  For details see Appendix 7-2
4/  For details see Appendix 7-2
5/ For details see Appendix 7-3
May 12, 1971



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Breakdown of Tractor, Tractor Imolement and Project Equipment Cost
Number       Unit CIF      Unit Distribution        Sales       Total       Total         Imported
Price              Costs             Taxes      Unit Cost     Cost        Component
-             (Rs) lRCR           (R))                         .(A)        (R ......IRs'000)
1.  Tractors   -  J5 hp range                                       1,000        20,800              3,500             2,200      26,500       26,500         20,600
-  50 hp range                                         500        23,600             3,900              2,500      30,000       15,000         11.800
-  Total                                             2 * 00                                                                    41.500          32.600
2. Tractor Implements                                                                  (Show-room Price (Rs))
(a)  for 35 hp tractor   mold-board plow                          200                     2,475                      225       2,700          540
disc plow                               100                      2,275                     225        2,5D0         250
cultivator                            1,000                      1,650                     150        1,800       1,800
disc harrow                             200                      2,375                     225        2,600         520
cage wheels                             400                        920                      80        1,000         400
levelling blades                        100                      1,840                     160        2,000         200
trailers                              1.000                      6,600                     600        7,200       7.200
Sub-total                           3,000                                                                      10,910
(b)  for 50 hp tractor   mold-board plow                          200                     3,500                      300       3,800         760
disc plow                               200                      3,220                     280        3,500         700
cultivator                              400                      2,520                     230        2,750       1,100
disc barrow                             200                      2,940                     260        3,200         640
cage wheels                             100                      1,100                     100        1,200         120
levelling blades                        200                      2,100                     200        Z,300         460
trailers                                500                      8,800                     800        9,600       4J100
Sub-total                           1,800                                                                       8.580
Implements Total                                                4.80                                                                       19a49
Number   Unit CIP    Spare     Unit Price   Unit Local  Unit Total         Total         imported
Price      Parts    with Spares   Dist. Costs      Cost          Cost        Co poent
(R-s)          (RS)        %Rs)           (Rs)         cgs)        ou I 000)      CgO 'OW)
3. Project Eauip,ent
(a)  Drilling rigs etc.: Rotary Rigs                               12  460,000    90,000      550,000        80,000       630,000          7,560         6,600
s aer Drills                              4   650,000    10,000      660.000        80,000       740,000          2,960        2,640
lhd Pumps                                10    55,000    11,000       66,000        10,000        76,000            760          660
HBaners (200 lb)                          0    55,000    11,0D0       66,000        10,000        76,000            760          660
Compressors (200 psi)                    10   220,000    44,000      264,000        26,000       290,000          2,900        2,640
Hand-bore sets                          145       -         -           -             -           10.0Wo          1.450         -
Sub-total                                                                                                      16.390       13,200
(b)  Earth Moving Machinery
per units-': Grader                      10   175,000    35,000      210,000        20,000       230,000          2,300        2,100
Scraper                      10   300,000    60,000      360,000        40,000      400,000           4,000        3,600
2 Tractors (35 hp)           20   20,800      4,200       25,000        10,000       35,000             700          500
Bulldozer (D6)                            2   290,000    60,000      350,000        50,000      400,000             8W           700
Sub-total                                                                                                       7,800        6,900
Project Equipment Total                                                                                                                    24.190       20.00D
1/ For a total of 10 units.
May 12, 1971



APPENDIX 7-3
Page 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADUJ AGRICULTUP-AL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS OF CONSUUTUICY SERVICES
A.   Technical and Organization Assistance Zs State Groundwater Directorate
Rs
Chief Advisor - 2 years at Rs 450,000 year                        900,000
Two Assistant Advisors - 2 years at Rs 337,500 year    =         1,35000
Rs 2,_250 ,000
These costs include salaries, on-costs. travel and consultancy overheads,
The foreign exchange cost is estimated at Rs 1,500,000.
B. Aerial Surve-
Rs
I.   Tamil Nadu
(a)  Interpretation of existing photography (18,000 km2)
Equipment (2 Stereoscopes and 1 pantograph)                   55,000
Interpretation at 150 km2/day -
6 men months at Rs 25,000 month                            150,000
2 designers at Rs 4,000 month for 6 months                  A8,000
Consultancy overheads                                       30,000
283,000
(b) Aerial survey and interpretation of balance of
crystalline areas (72,000 km2)
Photography at Rs 15/km2                                 1,095,000
2 additional sets of photographs                            65,000
3 stereoscopes for interpretation                           30,000
Interpretation cost at Rs 12/km2                           870,000
2,060,000
Overheads, management and travel                             657,000
Tamil Nadu total                                      3,000,000



APPENDIX 7-3
Page 2
II. Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Mysore
Aerial survey of crystalline areas (500,000 km )
at Rs 15/km2                                             7,500,000
2 Additional sets of photographs                             350,000
Equipment for interpretation                                 150,000
Interpretation cost at Rs 12/km2                           6,000,000
14,000,000
Overheads, management and travel                           3,000,000
Andhra Pradesh Total                                17,000,000
Total Cost of Complete Consultancy                    Rs 20,000,000
The foreign exchange cost is estimated at Rs 17,400,000.
May 12, 1971



IMDIA
TAHIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIr PROJECT
ESTIMTAED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
LENDING PROGRAM                                         OTHER INVESTYENTS
Minor       Land Levelling        Farm                            Equipment    Consultancy
Irrigation     and Drainage    Mechanization   Total               and  Spares      Services    Total           Total      Disburse.nts
(RsM)           (RsM)             (RaM)        (RsM)               (Rsd)           (RoM)       (Rs)           (RN)           MUSM
Quarter Ending
1971-72
September 30, 1971 1/                   -                -                 -            -                    -             -             -             -
December 31, 1971                       -                -                 _            _                    _             _            _              _
March 31, 1972                          -               2.0                -           2.0                   -             2.0         2.0            4.0            0.5
June 30, 1972                          7.0              3.0                -          10.0                   -            3.0          3.0           13.0            1.7
1972-73
September 30, 1972                    15.0              5.0                -          20.0                   -            9.0          9.0           29.0            3.9
December 31, 1972                     25.0              7.0                -          32.0                 10.0           10.0        20.0           52.0            6.9
March 31, 1973-                       35.0              8.0               6.0         49.0                 20.0          11.0         31.0           80.0           10.7
June 30, 1973                         50.0              9.0              15.0         74.0                21.0           12.0         33.0          107.0           14.3
1973-74
September 30, 19732/                  65.0             10.0             20.0          95.0                22.0           14.0         36.0          131.0           17.5
December 31, 1973-                    80.0             11.0             26.0         117.0                23.0           15.0         38.0          155.0           20.7
March 31, 1974                       100.0             12.0              30.0        142.0                 24.0          16.0         40.0          182.0           24.3
June 30, 1974                        130.0             13.0             32.6         175.6                25.0           17.0         42.0          217.6           29.1
1974-75
Seitember 30, 1974                   160.0             14.0             32.6         206.6                25.0           18.0         43.0          249.6           33.3
December 31, 1974 3/                 170.0             16.0             32.6         218.6                25.0           18.9         43.9          262.5           35.0
1/ Estimated Credit Effectiveness.
2/ Estimated Project Completion.
3/ Closing Date.
May 12, 1971






ANNEX 8
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROPOSED INTEREST RATES FOR PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
The following table gives the present (in brackets) and proposed
interest rates and margins (expressed as % per annum) for Project institu-
tions:
Margin
Borrowing  at         Lending  at      Margin    Increase
ARC
(1) Project      (-) 4.75 and 5.25 - 4.9  (-)    6.5   (-)    1.6            NA
(2) Other        (5 average) 5 average       (6.5)  6.5   (1.5)  1.5
LDB /1
(1) Project      (-)    6.5                  (-)    7.75  (-)    1.25        NA
(2) Other ARC   (6.5)  6.5                   (7.75) 7.75  (1.25) 1.25        -
(3) Other
Schemes    (6 average) 6 average    (7.25) 7.75  (1.25) 1.75    .50
Primary Banks /2
(1) Project      (-)    7.75                 (-)    9.0   (-)    1.25        NA
(2) Other ARC   (7.75) 7.75                  (8.75) 9.0   (1.0)  1.25    .25
(3) Other
Schemes     (7.25) 7.75                 (8.25) 9.0   (1.0)  1.25    .25
Notes
/1   Participating commercial banks would also receive funds from ARC at an
interest rate of 6.5% and would lend to ultimate borrowers at 9% giving
them a margin of 2.5% per annum.
/2   In addition Primary Banks and Commercial Banks would retain the proceeds
of a 0.5% evaluation fee charged on the cost of all Project investments.
NA - Not Applicable.
February 26, 1971






ANNEX 9
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM INCOMES AND FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN ON INVESTMENTS
1.         The following is an explanation of the methodology and assumptions
adopted in the illustrative Farm Models (Appendix 9-1) Financial Rates of
Return (Appendix 9-2) and Estimated Increases in Cropped Area and Production
(Appendix 9-3).
2.        Data on costs, sales and net incremental value of production are
based on present prices and net incremental production value is calculated
on the basis of comparative static analysis of each individual enterprise.
3.        On-farm labor is included in the incremental production costs to
the extent that the monthly demand exceeds the supply of unutilized family
labor before development in the same month. Incremental labor cost is allo-
cated among crops in the same proportion as the gross labor demand. It is
assumed that a subsistence wage is necessarily paid to family labor during
slack periods before development, that the ruling money wage rate is equal
to the subsistence wage and that therefore the opportunity cost of using
this labor with a new cropping pattern is zero.
4.         Sensitivity tests have been made in order to demonstrate the effect
of possible increases in investment costs and decreases in the net incremen-
tal value of production (through lower prices and/or yields). These tests
give the following results (%) on the assumptions given:
Present incremental -20% incl. net    Present incl.   -20% incl. net
net value of pro-  value produc-    net value pro-    value produc-
duction and present tion and present duction and +20%  tion and +20%
Investment Costs   Investment Costs Investment Costs Investment Costs
Model I           29                  21                 22                 15
Model II          27                  21                 22                 17
Model III         30                  24                 25                 19
Model IV          28                  23                 24                 18
Model V           46                  39                 40                 34
Model VI          30                  21                 23                 15
5.         Financial rates of return are based on the estimated life of the
asset (in the case of dugwells 20 years is assumed). For minor irrigation
investments it is assumed that electric pumpsets would be replaced in the
seventh (and fourteenth) years and in Model IV it is assumed that the tractor
and implements would have a salvage value of 20% of original cost.
6.         Production increases estimated in Appendix 9-3 would result not on-
ly from the direct effect of proposed investments but also from accompanying
improved current inputs and consequential changes in farmers' cropping patterns.
February 26, 1971






INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FASX MODELS BASED ON PRESENT COSTS AND PRICES
Gross
Area                     Yield                Production Cost          Production Value              Net Production Value
-  ul                       ?all        FullE                                 FbU.                      FuL
Before   Development     Before   Devel     t     Before   Development      Before   Development     Before   Development   Incremental
- ---ha            -     - - - ton/ha             - - - - - - - - - - - - - -          - Rs - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Model  I:  5 ha; Investment:  EiLter Point (Rs 9,000) Located in Cauvery Delta.
lst crop paddy               1.0        2.5          2.5         3.2            890      2,350          1,250      4,000           360       1,650         1,290
2nd crop paddy               1.0        2.0          2.0         2.6            700      1,300          1,000      2,600           300       1,300         1,000
Single crop paddy            2.5        1.0          2.5         3.0          2,387        940          3,125      1,500           738         56O         - 178
Palses                       0.5        0.5          0.4         o.6            150        177           160         240            10          63            53
Maize                        0.5        0.5          2.0         5.0            200        445            700      1,750           500        1,305          805
Cotton (seed)                 -         0.5           -          1.0                       410             _       1,000                       590           590
TOTAL                  5.5         7.0                                   4,327      5,622         6,235      11,090         1,908       5,468         3,560
Cropping Intensity (%)       110        140
Mbdel II:  10 ha; Investment:  Shallow 1Ubevell (Maxim,. depth 50 m) (Rs 22.500)  Located in Sedimentary area of South Arcot.
1st crop paddy               2.0        5.0          2.5         3.2          1,780      4,700         2,500       8,000           720       3,300         2,580
2nd crop paddy               2.0        4.C          2.0         2.6          1,400      2,600          2,000      5,200           600       2,600         2,000
Single crop paddy            5.0        2.0          2.5         3.0          4,775      1,880         6,250       3,000         1,475       1,120         - 355
Pulses                       1.0        1.0          0.4         0.6            300        355            320        480            20         125           105
1Lize                        1.0        1.0          2.0         5.0            400         890         1,400      3,500         1,000        2,610        1,610
Cotton (seed)                 -         1.0           -          1.0             _         820             -       2,000           _         1,]80         1,180
TOTAL                  11.0       14.0                                   8,655     11,245         12,470     22,180         3,815      10,935         7,120
Cropping Intensity (%)       110        140
Model III:  10 ha; Investment:  Yedium Tubevefl (Maxluuz depth 100 m) (Rs 30,000)  Located in crystalline area.
Maize                        2.0        3.0          2.0         5.0            800      2,850          2,800     10,500         2,000        7,650        5,650
Pulses                       3.0        2.0          o.4         o.6            900        550            960        960            60         410           350
Oilseeds                     2.0        3.0          o.8         1.2          1,140       1,950         1,600      3,600           460        1,650        1,190
Chillies                      -         1.0           _          1.2             -         740             -       3,600            -        2,860         2,860
Teddy                         -         3.0 °                    2.6             -         950                     390                        1,950        1,950
TOTAL                   7.0       12.0                                   2,840      8,040          5,360     22,560         2,520       14,520       12,000
Cropping Intensity (%)        70        120
March 8, 1971



NDIA
TAXIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
F?A8 HCaIIS ASv  aN PCM  CT coSs  AND FlCsS
Gross
Area                  Yield                Production Cost          Production Value            Net Production Value
Pull                    Ful-1                    FUl                     Pul                      Full
Before  Development    Before  Developnt    Before  Developient    Before   Development    Before  Develonoent    Incremental
- - - - be - - - - -    - - - ton/ha -7 ut-  -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Rs- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Model IV: 5 ha; Investment: Energized Dugvell (Rs l.°0°0) Located in cryetalline area.
Sorghum                     1.0        2.0           o.8        3.0           380      1,080          560       4,200           180      3,120        2,940
Oilseeds                    1.5        2.0           0.8        1.2           855      1,160        1,200       2,400           345       1,240         895
P.lsee                      1.0        1.0           o.4       o.6            300        275          320         480            20        205          185
Naddy                        -         1.0            -         2.6            -         650-                   1,300            -         650          650
TOM2~L                 3.5        6.o                                  1,535      3,165        2,080       8,380           545      5,215        4,670
Cropping Intensity (%)       70        120
Model V: 5 ha; Investment: LAnd-levelling (Rs 10,000) Located on black-cotton soils in Colsbatore.
Pulses                      2.0        1.0           o.4       o.6            600        450          640         .O8           40          30         - 10
Paddy                       1.0        1.0           2.0        2.5           955        870        1,000       1,250           45         380          335
Oilseeds                     -         1.0            -         1.2            -         780           -        1,200            -         420          420
Cotton (seed)               1.0        2.0           0.5       1.0            745      2,060        1,000       4,000          255       7.940        1,685
Sugar cane                   -         1.0            -      100.0             _       2.455           -        7,- _                    ± 4545       4,545
TOMAL                  4.o        6.0                                  2,300      6,615        2,640      13,930           340      7,315        6,975
cropping Intensity (S)       80        120
Model VI: 15 ha; Investment:  Medium-size Tractor with Implements (Rs 38.000) Located in crystalline area with full irrigation.
Pulses                      2.0        1.5           0.65      o.65         1,020        675        1,0o40        780           20         105           o5
Paddy                       6.o        8.0           2.8        2.8         7,440      9,120        8,400      11,200          960       2,080        1,120
Maize                       2.0        3.0           4.5        5.1         2,200      3,240        6,300      10,710         4,100      7,4r7:       3,370
Oilseeds                    3.0        3.0           1.2        1.3         2,490      2,340        3,600       3,900         1,Uno      1,5601 450
Cotton (seed)               2.0        3.0           1.0        1.1         2,360      3,060        4,ooo       6,600        1,640       3.542        1,900
Sugar cane                  3-°        4-°          95.0      105.0        10,950    13.u4o        19,950      29,400        g.ooo      16,360        7.36o
TOTAL                 18.0       22.5                                 26,460    31,475        43,290      62,590        16,830     31,115       14,285
Cropping Intensity (%)      120        150                                                                       Plus net incoee frco castom work     2 190
March 8, 1971



TAMIL NADU ARICULTURAL CREDI PROJwCT
TIVLCILL RHTES OF IUR1 II  TYPHR  fI IVEsT
kin Es]
Tear: .                    1          2          3          4           5          6           7         8-10
MODEL I:  Investment: Filter point
Incremental sales                         1,829       3,075     4,321      4,855       4,855      4,855       4.855       4,855
Incremental expenses                      1.295       1 295     1 295      1 295       1.295       1.295      1.295       1.295
Net value I/                                534       1,780     3,026       3.560      3,560       3 560      3,560       3,560
Capital investment                        90-                     _                                -          -Ioo          -
Net Incremental Flow:                       1466      1.180     3,026       3.560      36560       3 560         60       .560
Financial Rate of Return:  29%
1/ 30C  first year, 701 second. lOO. third year and thereafter vith adiustmnt for phasing,
IIDEL II: Investment: Shallow tubewell                                                                                           8-15
Incremental sales                         3.658       6,150     8,642       9,710      9,710       9,710      9,710       9,710
Incremental expenses                      2.590       2.590     2 590       2.590      2.590       2.590      2.590       2 590
Net value 1'                              1,068       3,560     6,052       7,120      7,120       7,120      7,120       7,120
Capitol investment                      -22 000                                                                3.500
Net Incremental Flov":                                3.560     6.052       7.120      7.120       7A120     _3620        7 120
Financial Rate of Return: 21
1/ 3OX first year, 70I second, 1001 third year and thereafter with adjustment for phasing.
IDEL Ill:  Investment: Medium tub_vell                                                                                           8-15
Increental sales                          6,4o0       8,800    12,400      16,000     17,200      17,200     17,200      17,200
Incremental expenses                      5.200       5.200     5 200      5.200       5.200       5.200      5.200       5 200
Net value I/                              1,200       3,600     7,200      10,800     12,000      12,00      12,000     12,000
Capital investment                        30 000      . -         -                      -           -         3500         -
Net Incremental Flow:                     28.800      3 600    _7 20                               2           8500      120800
Financial Rate of Return: 
11  20 first year, 401 second, 8d  third and 1007 fourth and thereafter with adjustment for phasing.
February 25, 1971



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FIANANCIAL RATES Ct RETUfiN BY TYPE OF INVESTMENT
(in Rs)
Year: ...........................   1           2         3          4          5        6            7     8-13         14       15-20
MODEL IV: Investment: Energized dugwell
Incremental sales                                       2,097    3,031       4,432     5,833      6,300      6,300    6,300      6,300      6,300    6,300
Incremental expenses                                    1 630    1,630       1,630     1,630      1,630      1,630    1.630      1,630      1 630    1,630
Net value i/   l,l:                                                                       Ol 4 4,70177 4,670 4,670 4
Capital investment                                     12-                     _                                       3,500       -        3,500
Net Incremental Flow:                                  11,533    1,401       2,802     4,203     4,670       4,670    1,170      4,670      1,170    4,670
Financial Rate of Return: 287.
1/ 207 first year, 40N second, 80% third and 100% fourth and thereafter with adjustment for phasing.
MODEL V: Investment: Land levelling                                                                     5-20
Incremental sales                                       4,315    6,o59       8,709    10,453    11,290
Incremental expenses                                    4,315    4,,315      4,,315    4,315     4,315
Net value V/                                              -      I711        4 391     61i 7g
Capital investment                                     10,000                 -
Net Incremental Flow:                                 (10,000)   1,744       4,394     6,138      6,975
Financial Rate of Return: 46%
CP first year, 507 second, 757% third, 10D% fourth year with adjustment for phasing.
MODEL VI: Investment:  Medium-sized tractor with implements                                             5-6          7
Incremental sales                                       7,486   12,429      17,371    20,666    21,490      29,090
Incremental expenses                                    5,015    5 015       5 015     5 015     5 015       5 015
Net value ]f                                            2,471    7,3 15,6              6,4
Capital investment                                                 -
Net Incremental Flow:                                  35529    7,414       12,356    15,651    16,75       24,075                                                                        I
Finncial Rate Of Return:  3CE'I
/ 30% first year, 607. second, 90% third and 100% fourth year with adjustment for phasing.
March 8, 1971



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Increases in CropPed Area and Production
The following increases in cropped area and in production are estimated at full
project development (in the fourth year after investment).
Cropped Area                                      Production
Before        After        Increase              Before         After        Increase
-------------- (ha) --------------                             (mton) -------------
Paddy                    108,650        134,750       26,100               262,475        426,600      164,125
Maize                      19,650        24,050         4, 00               46,800        111,100        64,300
Sorghum                    9,400         18,800         9,400                7,520         56,400        48,880
Pulses                    35,950         30,300        (5,650)              15,130         17,973         2,843
Total Food Crops:     173,650        207,900       34,250               331,925        612,073      280,148
Oilseeds                  24,400         34,000         9,600               21,320         41,250       19,930
Cotton (seed)              5,000         15,350       10,350                 4,000         15,800       11,800
Sugar cane                  4,500         8,000         3,500              427,500        830,000       402,500
Chillies                        -         2,900        2,900                     -          3,480         3,b80
Total AIl Crops:      207,550        268,150       60,_600
February 26, 1971






ANNEX 10
INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1.        In the calculations of the economic rates of return net benefits
are discounted over a period of 20 years. They assumes reinvestments in
tractors and tractor implements in years 7-9 and 15-17, in filter points in
years 11-13, in various tubewells in years 16-18 and in various pumpsets in
years 7-14 and 16-19. Except for land-levelling, land drainage and dugwells
(the full life of the asset is artificially fixed at 20 years), where an
asset has a useful life beyond the 20th year only a proportion of the invest-
ment cost has been included in the cost stream.
2.        Sales taxes and allowances for cost increases included in the finan-
cial rates of return have been excluded from the economic rate of return. The
main sales taxes are those on tractors and tractor implements and earth-
moving machinery (9%), electric pumpsets (8%) diesel oil (Rs 0.12 per litre);
lubracting oils (7%) and fertilizers (3-1/2%). Surface irrigation water from
the Cauvery irrigation scheme (Models I and II) and the PAP scheme (Model V)
is valued at Rs 62 per ha compared with the existing charge of Rs 35 and Rs
37 respectively; electricity is priced at the estimated economic cost of
Rs 0.18 kwh in place of the existing agricultural tariff of about Rs 0.10
kwh. The current exchange rate of US$1.0 to Rs 7.50 has been used.
February 26, 1971






DIA
TAM OMD ICULTU1UUL CZDIT nOfcT
lFAK NS 15 W     0211UT1 VAWLED A? FJECTIE WUD  J1  Pt  1/
-.-                             Yild                      ProductLon Cost             Cross Prouctioin Value                    Nat     ut!m Value
safe      Fall D-elOpm_t    before    Pull Daelopm_ t    IBfore           Full Developent    Before       Full Dw_lopm_t       Before      Pul Dvlmomt    Iuerintal
-                         -----'-tih_------- ------ t----------.------------------- ---------- ---------- --------- ------- Rs---------- --------- ---------- -------   -   ---------
ml. 1: 5 ha     t:  Pilter bPott (  8000)
lt t-r gui,               1.0            2.5             2.5             3.2              905            2,387          1,425           4,560              520            2,173            16S3
Scou drey                 1.0            2.0             2.0             2.6              715            1,360          1,140           2,964              425            1,606            .1,171
linJe   "  pady           2.S             1.0            2.5             3.0            2,425              970          3,562            1,710            1,137             740           -  397
PaIne                     0.5             0.5             0.4            0.6              n50              190             160             240               10              50                44
!im.                      0.5             0.5             2.0             5.0             200              465             460           1,150              260             685               425
Cotten (use)               _              0.5              -              1.0              -               440              -              660               -              220               220
Tlna                5.S             7.0                                           4,395            5,812           6,747          11,284            2,352           5,472             3,120
C_ipi   ia     1tv        110             140
la   nI: 10 Ua. leo.te :   bmllv Tabsell II (m            ds pt 5w ) S (R 19,800)
,st atop P)               2.0             5.0             2.5            3.2            1,810            4,775           2,850           9,120            1,040           4,345             3.305
2    crop pddy            2.              4.0            2.0             2.6            1,430            2,720           2,280           5,928              S50           3,208             2.358
Slagle crop p_dy          5.0             2.0             2.5            3.0            4,850            1.940           7,125           3,420            2,275           1,480             - 795
Falmas                    I.0             1.0            0.4             0.6              300              380             320             480               20             100                S0
hAe                       1.             1.0             2.0             5.0             400              930             920           2 300              520           1.370               S50
Cote  (-  ')               -              1.0              -              1.0              -               875              -            1,320               -              445                 S
Tat"               11.0            14.0                                           8,790           11,620          13,495          22,568            4,705          10,94S             6.243
CrOPtuu Lutmity           110             140
III:  10 ha: 1 _E At:  Ybdm Ubsl1 I (unio  doPt 100)1 (R 27,100)
hai. m2.0                                 3.0             2.0             5.0             800            2,985           1,840           6,900            1,040           3,915             2.75
pulse                     3.0             2.0             0.4             0.6             900              610             960             960               60             350               290
Otlseeds                  2.0             3.0             0.8             1.2            1,135           2,145           1,40            3,240              305           1,095               790
( iltl                   -              1.0              -              1.2              -               775              -            3.000               -            2.225             2.225
raddy                      -              3.0              -              2.6                            2,265                           4,446                            2.181             2,181
Tatal               7.e            12.0                                            2,835           8,780           4,240          18,546            1,405           9,766             0.361
Crovppsg latsmiq          7.0            12.0
UI £dd_ltlmly comes m   met of ajlle         tf   eoatcot idcrease  mi of ts.
February 25. 1971



INDIA
TAMIL NhDU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MOD3W WITH OUITIU  VALUED AT PROJECTED WRLD MARKET PRICES-/
Area                     Yield                    Production Cott          Gross Production Cost                Net Production Value
Full                       Full                        Full                        Full                         Full
Before    Developument    Before    Develomnt    Before    Development    Before    Development                 Before    Development        Incremertal
--         ha --                   ton/ha -------    --------------------------------------------------------
MODEL IV;  5 ha;  Investment:  Energized duavell (Rs 10.780)
Sorghum                           1.0            2.0          0.8           3.0           380          1,170          368          2,760          - 12          1,590             1,602
Oilseeds                          1.5           2.0           0.8            1.2          855          1,290       1,080           2,160           225            870               645
Pulses                            1.0            1.0          0.4           0.6           300            305          320            480            20            175               155
Single crop paddy                  -            1.0            -            2.6            -             760          -            1,482             -            722               722
Total                    3.5            6.0                                    1,535          3,525        1,768          6,882           233          3,357             3,124
Cropping intensity                 70            120
"WEL V:  5 ha;  Investment:  Land-Levelling (9,100)
Pulses                            2.0           1.0           0.4           0.6           600            470          640            480            40             10               -30
Paddy                             1.0            1.0          2.0           2.5           970            880       1,140           1,425           170            545               375
Oilseeds                            -           1.0            -            1.2            -             770           -           1,080            -             310               310
Cotton (seed)                     1.0           2.0           0.5            1.0          760          2,080          660          2,640         -100             560               660
Sugar cane                          -           1.0            -          100.0            -           2,510           -           6,000            -           3,490             3,490
Total                   4.0            6.0                                    2,330          6,710        2,440         11,625           110          4,915             4,805
Cropping intenaity                80             120
MODEL VI:  15 ha:  Investment:  Medium-size Tractor with Implements (Rs 31,500)
Pulses                            2.0            1.5          0.65          0.65        1,075             705       1,040            780          - 35              75              110
Paddy                             6.0           8.0           2.8           2.8         8,105          9,928        9,576         12,768         1,471          2,840             1,369
Maise                             2.0            3.0          4.5            5.1        2,290          3,355       4,140           7,038         1,850          3,683             1,833
Oilseeds                          3.0            3.0          1.2           1.3         2,690          2,520        3,240          3,510           550             990              440
Cotton (seed)                     2.0            3.0          1.0            1.1        2,470          3,210        2,640          4,356           170          1,146               976
Sugar cane                        3.0           4.0          95.0         105.0        11,595         13,824      17,100          25,200        5,505          11,376             5,871
Total                  18.0           22.5                                   28,225         33,542      37,736          53,652        9,511          20,110            10,599
Cropping intensity                120            150                                                                        Plus income from net custom work                      2,000
12,599
1/  Additionally costs are net of allownaces for cost increases and of taxes.
February 25, 1971



INDIA
YAKIL IUDU AGRICULtURAL CPSDIT I!OJ3CT
gconomic Rates of Return by Type of Investmnt
(in Rs)
Year  ............       1           2            3           14          5            6           7           8-10
lNEL  Is Inestmant: Filter Point
Inremental sales.                                     1,885       2,977        h,O69       4,537        4,537      4a,537        4,53?      4a,537
TInroental expenes                                    1 417        1 417       1 417        i  ?17      1 17        141?        l 417        1  ?17
Not value 1/                                            '1:08        >         ;52                                              tt
Capital inestnent                                      8...                                                                      _ 2,950
met Incremental Fl,o,                                  .532)       1,560                   3 120        3,120       3,120         170        3 I'2
tceamic Rate of Retum: 227-
V 30% firat year, 70% secoad, 100% third year end thereafter with adjustment for phasing.
IML rIs lnvestuet:  Shallow Tubeimll                                                                                                                8-15
Incremental sales                       -             3,766       5,951        8,137       9,073        9,073       9,073       9,073        9,073
Increrental expenses                                  2 830       2 830        2 830       2 830       2 830        2 830       2 830        2 830
met value I/                          Vtm                                      el 3m7              57                              M
Capital inestmnt                                     19.800            -                                                        2,950          1
Net Inremental Flow:                                 (18 864)      3,121       530?       6,213        6,23        6,2h43       3293        6 2L3
Kcon;c Rate of Return: 27%
I/ 30% first year, 70% second, 100% third end thereafter with adjustment for phaaing.
N2EL III:  Inestment:  )bdiua TubewlU                                                                                                               8-15
Increuental sales                                     6,781        8,453      10,762      13,470      124,306      114,306     14,306       14,306
Incremntal epenses                                    5 945        5 945       5 945       5 945        5 945       5 945       5 945        5 345
Met value 1/                                            '3                                                3 7 7h 3615T                       h;36t 41Et
Capital investment                                   2?2                       __ _ -           _         _           1         2.950            -
Net Incremental Flow:                                (26,264)      2.508       5,,01        7,525       8.361       83 5L1411                  361
Economic Rate of Returns 23%
y   20% first year, 140% second, 80% third mad 100% fourth and thereafter with adjustnait for phasing.
February 25, 1971



tu, my,C.TRLcUx 
socamic Rmtee of Rsu2n b  Typ,t of  th  unt
(1in Rs)
Teart ....1...                       2          3           4           5           6           7          81          14         15-20
Rl3L Os ,Iment: lwersised nall
Incremntal sale                                      2,302       2,927       3,614      14,802       5,114       5,114      5,114       5,fl        5,114       5,114
IDreoutal axpense                                    I  0        1 990       1 990       L 990       1 99       1990        l.I  0                  1990        1990
ust vae y                      HIZ                                 7 I/  a                                                                          j-
Capitat inentuent                                   10.180                       -               -           -               2. 50                   2.950
Not Icyrmntal Flows                               (10,16)                               212         3           32,           174                     174       3,124
Sncodc Rate of Returns 21S
1/ 210% first year, h,)% sucond, &% third, IDlE facrtb an  thereafter with adjuet_nt for phasing.
JlIM  V: Investimnt. Land Le'Ui                                                                            5-
nezwntal seles                                       14,380      5,581       7,I07       8,608       9,185
Thcrevental expens                                      80        -   4    L80           480I 380
an value 1/                                              -       I           31-,                    F,
Capital infestasnt                                   9.100
lbt IacrefnIa newt                                  (9.g)         A3027                  1.22       14
eonemc Rate of Retumt 33%
1/ 0% first year, 50s second, 75% tkird, 10% fturth year vith adjuetment for p_aing.
IBL VI, Investments lbdius-Sized Tretor with  enlegwnts                                                     5.6          7
Incremental sale                                     7,207      10,987      14,766      17,286      17,916     214,216
Incewanta elp_*                                      5.317 5l3  5 37    51       7       51           .317      5 317
Net value 1/            .                             90        3675         9,449    1I;69        1,9          1Y
Capital iri6stint                                   35__
Net Inczw ntal Floit                               (_9610)                   24 949     11.969      12,599     18.89
leaemid  Bate of Return, 24
V  3CA first year, 60% seeond, 90% third, 100% fourth year and thereafter with adjatmt for phasing.
Febraary 25, 19n



INDIA
TAMIL NADU AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONGIIC RATE OF RETURN
Net Value Increase or Decrease                          Investment Cost Increases or
Best                       Because of Price Change or                            Decreases while Incremental Net
Year             Investment           Estimate               Yields are Uiiher/Lower than Estimated                  Value of Production remains at Best Estimate
----------------------------------Rs million----------------------------------                      -----------------Rs million-----------------
+107.     -10%         -15%        -207e               -10%           +10%        +15%           +20%
1                122                    4                    4          4            3           3                 110            134         140           16
2                173                   21                   23         19           18          17                 156            190         199            200
3                  92                  56                   62         50           48         45                   83            101         106            110
4                   -                  97                  107         87           83          78                   -              -           -              -
5                   -                 126                  139        114          107         101                   _
6                   -                 139                  153        125          118         111                   -              -           -              -
7                   -                 143                  157        129          122         114                   -              -           -              -
8                  29                 147                  162        132          125         118                  26             32          33             35
9                 65                  143                  157        129          122         114                  59             71          75             78
10                 27                  141                  155        127          120         113                  24             30          31             32
11                 15                  141                  155        127          120         113                  14             16          17             18
12                 28                  141                  155        127          120         113                  25             31          32             34
13                 13                  141                  155        127          120         113                  12             14          15             16
14                  _                  143                  157        129          122         114                   -              -           -              -
15                 25                  147                  162        132          125         118                  23             27          29             30
16                 63                  143                  157        129          122         114                  57             69          72             76
17                 20                  141                  155        127          120         113                  18             22          23             24
18                  5                  141                  155        127          120         113                   5              5           6              6
19                  -                  141                   155       127          120         113                   -              -           -              -
20                                     141                   155       127          120         113                   -              -           -               -
Rate of Return:    28                                         30         25           23         22                   31            25           24            23
The combined effect of a 207 decrease in the net value of incremental income and a 207 increase in investment cost would reduce the rate of return to 17%






P 7\' (}   A    N    \ D  H   R    A
I N           m y~~~~~~~~~ 
LO                                                                                                                                                              INa-X  
-  : _ ~~~~~~,I,i                       , \_     H'   
=  ::   9  t:   X        \_ >              r~~~~~~~~~~~CI MBATO E 7U'A  W.7                                                           G  A  L¢4
A HA A B  I A  N
0 50 6i i A 0 0 g L \ / >zt .t~~~~~~MADURAI /sStZ1     
S  LA
:   t: t    :    ; R;  :    : J    : 0   t    / f   2 .  l    9   X>~~~~~~RAMANATHAPURAM                            
IIRIII~~~~
Lop. LoNRrLO fE  A   t%            (                0 .... ....
.:   :=:   .  '  =  /  s  ttur<- -- - ....... N RemenothT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p 'T 



