CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 250-IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 250-IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1971, between INDIA, act-
ing by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewif' between the
Association and the State of Tamil Nadu, .. State of
Tamil Nadu has agreed to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(C) By an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Tamil
Nadu Cooperative State Land Development Bank and the
State of Tamil Nadu, certain obligations in respect of the
carrying out of the Project have been undertaken by Agri-
cultural Refinance Corporation, Tamil Nadu Cooperative
State Land Development Bank and the State of Tamil
Nadu; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated


﻿4
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion, as -so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) :
('a) Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b) Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) be-
comes 6.02 (h);
(c) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows: "5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by
its President.";
(d) The following paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"The terms 'Project Agreement' and 'Tamil Nadu Agree-
ment' have the meaning set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(e) The words ", the Project Agreement and the Tamil
Nadu Agreement" are added after the words "the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) " Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a
state of India, or any successor thereof.
(b) "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra
Pradesh, a state of India, or any successor thereof.
(c) "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a
state of India, or any successor thereof.
(d) "Mysore" means the State of Mysore, a state of
India, or any successor thereof.


﻿5
(e) "ARC" means Agricultural Refinance Corporation,
a statutory corporation established and organized under
the laws of the Borrower.
(f) "LDB" means Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Land
Development Bank, a cooperative society established and
organized under the laws of Tamil Nadu.
(g) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Association, ARC, LDB and
Tamil Nadu, and all Schedules thereto, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(h) "Tamil Nadu Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between Tamil Nadu and the Associa-
tion, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(i) " Subsidiary Loan Agreement' neans the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and ARC pursuant
to Section 3.01 (d), and all Schedules thereto, if any, as
the same may be amended from time to time with the
approval of the Association.
(j) "Agricultural Loan" means any loan made or pro-
posed to be made to a Beneficiary and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(k) "Beneficiary" means (i) any person or enterprise
carrying out farm custom work in the territory of Tamil
Nadu, or (ii) any farmer, group of farmers or cooperative
farming society, carrying out farm work in the territory
of Tamil Nadu, which is eligible to receive an Agricultural
Loan.
(1) "Participating Bank" means any bank, listed in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934,
which has entered into an agreement with ARC in accord-
ance with Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement.
(m) "Primary Bank" means any Primary Land Devel-
opment Bank which is a member of LDB and which has


﻿6
entered into an agreement with LDB in accordance with
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
(n) "State Groundwater Directorate" means the direc-
torate established by the Government of Tamil Nadu.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million dollars
($35,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿7
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each March 1 and September 1 commencing Septem-
ber 1, 1981 and ending March 1, 2021, each installment to
and including the installment payable on March 1, 1991 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (11/%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project, or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon any of the
obligations of the Borrower set forth in paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall take all action required
to ensure the prompt importation of the following goods,
including the granting of all necessary licenses, foreign
exchange permits and other approvals, without reconsid-
eration of the eligibility of the items for importation: (i)
that part of the equipment listed in paragraphs 1 and 3
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement that may be procured from
outside the territories of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions contained in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(ii) initial spare parts for the tractors imported under the
Project in an amount equal to 15%o of the c.i.f. price
thereof; and (iii) for a period of four years commencing
two years after the disbursement date in respect of each
consignment of tractors financed under the Credit, spare


﻿8
parts for such tractors in an annual amount equal to 10o
of the c.i.f. price of such tractors or such other amount as
may from time to time be agreed to between the Borrower
and the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Association of the
firms eligible to bid for tractors pursuant to paragraph
1(a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, at the time of each
invitation to bid.
(d) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on terms and conditions (including inter alia
those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement) satisfac-
tory to the Association for the purpose of relending to
ARC for relending to LDB and Participating Banks the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of Cate-
gories I, II, III and IV of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association -shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
(e) In order to assist Tamil Nadu in carrying out Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to Tamil
Nadu the proceeds of the Credit in respect of Category V
of the allocation -of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in
Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
(f) The operating policies and procedures for the carry-
ing out of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. In order to assist Tamil Nadu, Andhra
Pradesh, Maharashtra and Mysore in carrying out Part
D(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall have executed or
caused to have executed by not later than March 31, 1972,


﻿9
a contract with consultants to carry out the aerial survey
of the crystalline areas of these States. The appointment
of such consultants, the terms and periods of their employ-
ment and their terms of reference shall be subject to the
approval of the Association prior to their appointment.
SECTION 3.03. The Borrower shall take and shall cause
all its agencies to take all action which shall be necessary
on their part to enable (i) Tamil Nadu to perform all its
obligations under the Tamil Nadu Agreement, and (ii)
ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu to perform their obligations
under the Project Agreement, and shall not take or permit
any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent
or interfere with the performance of any such obligations
of ARC, LDB or Tamil Nadu.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause
to be insured, or make, or cause to be made, adequate pro-
vision for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods. The Bor-
rower shall keep the Association informed as to such insur-
ance arrangements.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTION 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit under Categories IV and V of the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿10
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
So,PTIoN 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC, LDB
and Tamil Nadu to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ARC, LDB and Tamil
Nadu to: (i) establish and maintain separate accounts in
respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of
the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in -any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning their accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
SECTION 4.02. In order to assist the State Groundwater
Directorate in its organization, staffing and operations, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, commenc-
ing by a date not later than three months from the Effective
Date, internationally recruited consultants acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit


﻿11
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the performance
by Tamil Nadu of its obligations under the Tamil Nadu
Agreement, the performance by ARC, LDB and Tamil
Nadu of their obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operatioiis and financial condition of
ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu and, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower, includ-
ing its balance of payments, and the external debt of the
Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any
agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations and financial condition of ARC, LDB and Tamil
Nadu and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obhga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement, the per-
formance by Tamil Nadu of its obligations under th Tamil


﻿12
Nadu Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, or the performance by LDB and Tamil Nadu
of their respective obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the
Tamil Nadu Agreement and the Project Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice


﻿13
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with -the service charges thereon and upon any such decla-
ration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purpose of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Tamil Nadu Agreement; ARC, LDB
or Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement; or
ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that (i) Tamil Nadu will be able
to perform its obligations under the Tamil Nadu Agree-
ment, or (ii) ARC, LDB or Tamil Nadu will be able to
perform their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement, or (iii) ARC will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) any event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower and the defaulting party.
(b) ARC or LDB shall have become unable to pay any
of their debts as they mature or any action or proceeding
shall have been taken by ARC or LDB or by others whereby
any of the property of ARC or LDB shall or may be dis-
tributed among its creditors.


﻿14
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ARC or LDB or for the suspension of
their operation.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Tamil Nadu
Agreement on behalf of Tamil Nadu have been duly author-
ized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
(b) The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(c) The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ARC, respec-
tively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
(d) Except as the Association and Tamil Nadu shall
otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu has withdrawn all direct sub-
sidies for wells.
(e) Tamil Nadu and its agencies have set rates for mech-
anized land levelling custom services at a level sufficient
to cover all costs and to provide a small operating surplus.
(f) The State Groundwater Directorate has an initial
staff which is acceptable to the Association.
(g) ARC has invited those banks listed in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, excepting
the Tamil Nadu State Cooperative Bank Limited, to par-
ticipate in the Project.


﻿15
(h) ARC, after consulting with the Government of Tamil
Nadu, has informed the Association of: (i) the distribution
and organization of all Primary Land Development Banks
and such other arrangements as will ensure, to the satis-
faction of the Association, the sound management, super-
vision and financial independence of the Land Development
Bank system both as a whole and in its parts; and (ii) the
names and relevant particulars of Primary Land Develop-
ment Banks and the banks invited by it in pursuance of
Section 8.01(g) which will be responsible for Project lend-
ing in respect of minor irrigation investments in those areas
of Tamil Nadu which are named in the Investment Program
in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and in respect of
other investments throughout Tamil Nadu. In determining
such nominations, the criteria which have been agreed be-
tween the Association and ARC and which are set out in a
side letter of even date, shall have been satisfied.
SECTION 8.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Tamil Nadu Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, Tamil Nadu and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu, respectively, and consti-
tutes a valid and binding obligation of ARC, LDB and
Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and ARC respectively, and consti-
tutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.


﻿16
SECTION 8.03. The date September 30, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.04. On termination of the Project Agreement
in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the Bor-
rower with respect to the Project shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or
Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower or the Director of the Depart-
ment of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower, acting singly, is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿17
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WIIEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By /s/ J. BuRKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the per-
centage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in     % of Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I Loans for minor            22,700,000    62% of total expendi-
irrigation                              tures pursuant to loans
for minor irrigation
II Loans for land              1,500,000    69% of total expendi-
levelling                                tures pursuant to loans
for land levelling
III Loans for drainage            600,000    62% of total expendi-
tures pursuant to loans
for drainage
IV Tractors and initial         5,000,000    100% of foreign
spare parts                              expenditures
V Well-drilling equip-         2,700,000    100% of total
ment and earth-moving                   expenditures
machinery
VI Consultancy services         2,500,000    100% of foreign
a) Groundwater directorate               expenditures
b) Aerial survey
TOTAL                  35,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the ter-
ritories, and in the currency, of any country other than the
Borrower;


﻿19
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such
percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of
the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for
such taxes; and
(c) expenditures for freight and insurance within the
territories of the Borrower with respect to goods financed
pursuant to Category V.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the estimate of the expenditures under
Category II, IV, V, or VI shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer re-
quired therefor will be reallocated by the Association (sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other Cate-
gories) by increasing correspondingly the amount allocated
to Category I and/or III and the Association will increase
correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100o net of taxes)
the percentage applicable to Category I and/or III.


﻿20
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column -of the table in paragraph 1 above or the provisions
of paragraph 4 above, if the estimate of total expenditures
under Category I, II or III shall increase and no proceeds
of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above, if any contract for the procurement of any
item included in any Category shall have been awarded
according to procedures inconsistent with those set forth
or referred to in Schedule 3 of this Agreement, or if the
Association shall have reasonably objected to any such
contract on the ground that the procurement procedure fol-
lowed is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or re-
ferred to in such Schedule 3 or if the terms and conditions
of any such contract shall, without the Association's prior
concurrence, materially differ from those on the basis of
which bids were asked, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and cor-
respondingly reduce the amount allocated to the relevant
Category, as the Association shall reasonably determine to
represent the portion of total expenditures under such con-
tract which would have been eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit, had the procurement proce-
dures followed not been inconsistent with those set forth
or referred to in such Schedule.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of a lending program for agri-
cultural development in Tamil Nadu, consists of:
A. A two and one-half year program to finance invest-
ments in minor irrigation, land levelling, land drainage
and improvement and farm mechanization for Beneficiaries
through Primary Banks and Participating Banks, which
loans will be refinanced in accordance with the terms -and
conditions of Schedule 5 of this Agreement and with the
Project Agreement.
B. The provision of spare parts for tractors.
C. The provision of well-drilling equipment and earth-
moving machinery.
D. The services of consultants for the purposes of (1)
-'                advising the State Groundwater Directorate and (2) carry-
ing out an aerial survey of crystalline areas of Tamil Nadu,
Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Mysore.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
The Borrower will establish a special committee (herein-
after called the Committee) for the purpose of directing
the procurement of goods under the Project. The Committee
shall consist of representatives of the Borrower (one of
whom shall be the chairman), the Government of Tamil
Nadu and ARC.
Under the Committee's directions, Tamil Nadu will or-
ganize procurement of equipment eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the follow-
ing procedures:
1. Tractors and Spare Parts for tractors
(a) Tamil Nadu will obtain quotations for lots of at
least 500 tractors in order to import about 1500 tractors.
Quotations will be sought by public invitation, on unit
prices at varying quantities, from those suppliers in Bank
member countries and Switzerland who have established
tractor manufacturing facilities in India, or have obtained
necessary approvals of the Borrower for the manufacture
of tractors in India, prior to the date on which quotations
are sought. Before bids are invited the Committee will fur-
nish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid, the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures and coverage to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association may reasonably request.
(b) Tamil Nadu will require all suppliers submitting
quotations to give full particulars as to proposed pre-sales
and after-sales service arrangements, including provision
for initial spare parts equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of
tractors supplied. Any supplier not providing satisfactory
assurances as to service arrangements would be disquali-
fled by the Committee.


﻿23
(c) Tamil Nadu will advertise through LDB and the
Participating Banks the quoted prices and the service ar-
rangements offered by the different suppliers. Beneficiaries
will be required to state to the Primary Bank or the Par-
ticipating Bank for transmittal to Tamil Nadu, their
choices, in order of preference, of, and at the same time
apply for an Agricultural Loan for, tractors which they
will be willing to buy. Loan applications will be processed
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.
(d) Tamil Nadu will aggregate the orders received, ac-
cording to first tractor choices. If the aggregate orders
for the particular model come to below the minimum ac-
ceptable order for that manufacturer at the unit prices
quoted for varying quantities, the Co-amittee will discard
the first choice for those farmers and proceed on the basis
of second or other choices. After approval by the Commit-
tee, Tamil Nadu will send to the Association its analysis
of bids, including a statement of farmers' choices, and its
recommendations before orders are placed. The Associa-
tion shall promptly inform the Committee whether it has
any objections to the intended placement of orders and
shall state the reasons for any objections it may have.
(e) Tamil Nadu will subsequently place orders with the
selected suppliers at the unit prices quoted. Tamil Nadu
also will enter into contracts with the selected suppliers
or their agents which would specify service arrangements
and performance assurances including the supply of spare
parts. Agents representing suppliers will be required to
sell post-warranty service.
(f) Tamil Nadu will arrange through the suppliers' rep-
resentatives in India for the imp,ortation and transporta-
tion to Tamil Nadu of tractors. Tamil Nadu will arrange
for the distribution of tractors to agents designated by the
suppliers who would perform pre-sales services iand sell
the tractors to Beneficiaries. Tamil Nadu may charge agents
a fee for its services.


﻿24
(g) Suppliers will be required to maintain stocks of
spare parts referred to under paragraph 1(b) of this Sched-
ule by a designated representative in a central store to be
released through agents for tractors imported under the
Project.
2. Well-Drilling Equipment and Earth-Moving Machinery
Well-drilling equipment and earth-moving machinery will
be procured on the basis 'of international competitive bid-
ding, in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August 1969, through arrangements to be estab-
lished by the Committee, and will ensure that private con-
tractors providing well-drilling custom services are offered
about one-quarter of the well-drilling equipment for pur-
chase.
3. For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and asso-
ciated services included in Category V of the table set out
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, bid prices
shall be determined and compared in accordance with the
following rules:
(a) The term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Bor-
rower for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial
extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in
such territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a
"Foreign Bid".
(b) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of
the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the place of their use or installa-
tion.
(c) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid, the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the -sum of the following amounts:


﻿25
(i) the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii) the amount of  any taxes on the importation of such
goods into the territories of the Borrower which
generally apply to non-exempt importers, or 15o
of the amount specified in (i) above, whichever shall
be the lower; and
(iii) handling costs, inland freight, insurance and other
costs of delivery of such goods to the place of their
use or installation.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 4
Equipment Required for the Project,
1. Tractors in the 25-60 hp range and spare parts for such
tractors.
2. Tractor Implements: mouldboard ploughs, disc ploughs,
cultivators, disc harrows, cage wheels, levelling blades
and trailers.
3. Well-drilling equipment, spare parts for well-drilling
equipment and earth-moving machinery: rotary rigs,
hammer drills, mud pumps, hammers, compressors,
graders, scrapers, tractors, bulldozers.
4. Pumps, engines, electric motors, electric connections,
lining of open wells, tubes for tubewells.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and condi-
tions under which part of the proceeds of the Credit or the
equivalent thereof shall be lent to ARC by the Borrower:
(a) In respect of ARC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i) interest rate of 5% per amum less 1/4%  per
annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years;
(iii) exchange risk: for account of India.
(b) In respect of ARC refinancing for 10 years and above
but not exceeding 15 years:
(i) interest rate of 51/% per annum less 1/4% per
annum for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(iii) exchange risk: for account of India.


