CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 250-IN
Project Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
S
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
TAMIL NADU COOPERATIVE
STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK
AND
THE STATE OF TAMIL NADU
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1971 between INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (here-
inafter called ARC), TAMIL NADU COOPERATIVE STATE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called LDB) and THE
STATE OF TAMIL NADU.
WHEREAS by a,development credit agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association (hereinafter
referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five
million dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition inter alia that ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAs by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and the State of Tamil Nadu, the State of
Tamil Nadu has agreed to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAs by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu, in consideration
of the Association's entering into the Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;


﻿4
Now THERFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth, the term "Rs" means rupees in the
currency of the Borrower, and the term "Tamil Nadu"
means the State of Tamil Nadu, acting for the time being
through its Department of Agriculture.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
iSECTION 2.01. ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu shall carry
out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement with the Borrower on terms and condi-
tions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 5 to
the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the
Association. ARC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, ARC -shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b) ARC shall enter into agreements with LDB and
each commercial bank selected in accordance with Section


﻿5
8.01(g) and (h) of the Development Credit Agreement on
terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfac-
tory to the Association.
(c) ARC shall instruct Participating Banks to maintain
separate accounts for Project lending and shall ensure that
such accounts are audited by auditors acceptable to the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. LDB shall enter into an agreement with
each Primary Bank on terms and conditions (including
inter alia those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement) satisfactory to ARC.
SECTION 2.04. The operating policies and procedures for
carrying out the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Association, ARC, LDB
and Tamil Nadu.
SECTION 2.05. ARC shall take such measures as shall be
necessary to ensure that appraisals of Agricultural Loans
are in conformity with agreed lending criteria andl to en-
sure that not more than one Agricultural Loan is granted
for the same investment.
SECTION 2.06. Tamil Nadu shall organize the procure-
ment of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the procedures set forth or re-
ferred to in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.07. (a) Tamil Nadu shall cause all imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
insured against hazards incident to the 'acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, or that adequate provision be made for the
insurance thereof, and for such insurance any indemnity


﻿6
shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair ,such goods. Tamil Nadu shall keep the Association
informed of such insurance arrangements.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu shall cause all goods and serv-
ices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Cate-
gories IV and V of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement to be used exclusively for the Project.
SECTION 2.08. ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu: (i) shall
maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to them by the Borrower and by ARC, re-
spectively, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association',s representatives to in-
spect the goods financed out of such proceeds and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to them and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
SECTION 2.09. ARC and LDB shall at all times charge
interest on all of their loans at rates sufficient to enable
ARC and LDB, respectively, to (a) cover all operating
expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and
interest payments on borrowings; and (b) maintain ade-
quate provisions for bad debts and maintain adequate gen-
eral reserves in accordance with sound commercial practice.
SECTION 2.10. ARC, in consultation with Tamil Nadu,
the Participating Banks and the Primary Banks, shall pre-
pare investment guidelines and establish loan rates for the
financing of land drainage and inform the Association of
them and of any substantial changes thereto.


﻿7
SECTION 2.11. LDB shall, within three months after the
Effective Date, appoint a senior agricultural economist and
a civil engineer experienced in water use and management
to its staff.
SECTION 2.12. ARC shall require Participating Banks
and Primary Banks, with the assistance of ARC, to carry
out a series of short courses for staff on Project procedures
and lending criteria; and shall require Participating Banks
to keep -separate Project accounts.
SECTION 2.13. ARC shall take such due measures as are
necessary to ensure that all banks included in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (a) shall
not lend for minor irrigation investments in the areas
specified in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment outside of the Project lending program, and (b) in
other areas in Tamil Nadu such banks (i) shall only lend
for minor irrigation investments where a certificate of non-
objection from the State Groundwater Directorate shall
have been received and (ii) commencing one year after the
Effective Date, in making loans for dugwell improvement,
conform to the appraisal procedures and criteria set out in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC and LDB
SECTION 3.01. ARC and LDB shall: (a) at all times man-
age their affairs, maintain their financial position, plan
their future expansion and carry on their operations, all in
accordance with sound business and financial practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent man-
agement -assisted by experienced and competent staff in
adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to ac-
quire, maintain and review all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the con-


﻿8
duct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 3.02. LDB shall cause all Primary Land De-
velopment Banks (a) not to lend for minor irrigation in-
vestments in the areas specified in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment outside of the Project lending program, and (b) in
other areas in Tamil Nadu (i) only to lend for minor irriga-
tion investments where a certificate of non-objection from
the State Groundwater Directorate shall have been received
and (ii) commencing one year after the Effective Date, in
making loans for dugwell improvement, conform to the
appraisal procedures and criteria set out in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
SECTION 4.01. ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu,shall maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices their operations and
financial condition.
SECTION 4.02. ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu shall: (i) es-
tablish and maintain separate accounts in respect of all
funds disbursed and received on account of the Project;
(ii) have their accounts and financial istatements (balance
sheets,.statements of income and expenses and related state-
ments) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independ-
ent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of said separate accounts and their financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such ,scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Association such -other information
concerning their accounts and financial statements and the


﻿9
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
SECTION 4.03. LDB shall cause the accounts 'of the Pri-
mary Banks to continue to be audited by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Association.
SECTION 4.04. ARC shall require the separate Project
accounts of the Participating Banks, as referred to in
Section 2.12 of this Agreement, to be audited by independ-
ent auditors acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Association, ARC, LDB and Tamil
Nadu shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of
the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the As-socia-
ttion, ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of ARC, LDB
or Tamil Nadu and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
SECTION 5.02. The Association, ARC, LDB and Tamil
Nadu shall promptly inform each other of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the per-
formance by any of them of its obligations under this
Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and ARC
of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu, respectively,
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all their records and documents relevant to the Project.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
SECTION 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu there-
under -shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by
ARC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
interest thereon shall have been repaid by ARC to
the Borrower.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu of this event and, upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations
of the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 7.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be


﻿11
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such i ace or
making such request. The addresses so specifle are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shreeniketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
Agrefinans
Bombay
For LDB:
Chairman
Tamil Nadu Cooperative State Development Bank
32, Luz Church Road
Mylapore
Madras 4
India


﻿12
Cable address:
Nilavalam
Madras, India
For Tamil Nadu:
Secretary to,the Government of Tamil Nadu
Finance and Planning Department
Fort St. George
Madras 9
India
Cable address:
Madrasfinance
Madras
India
SECTION 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of (i) ARC may
be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such
other person or persons as ARC shall designate in writing;
(ii) LDB may be taken or executed by its Chairman or
such other person or persons as LDB shall designate in
writing; and (ii) Tamil Nadu may be taken or executed by
the person duly authorized by it.
,SECTION 7.03. ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of the person or per-
sons who will, on behalf of ARC, LDB and Tamil Nadu,
take any action or execute any documents required or per-
mitted to be taken or executed by ADC, LDB and Tamil
Nadu, respectively, pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
SECTION 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and
all collectively but one instrument.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District -of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year firsit above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative
TAMIL NADu COOPERATIVE
STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative
THE STATE OF TAMIL NADu
By /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
I. Investment Program and Technical Criteria
Filter Point and Tubewell Investments
1. (A) Thanjavur District
(i) Taluks: Thanjavur (North), Papanasam, May-
uram, Nannilam, Kumbakonam, Shyali
Area description: Cauvery sub-basin
Investments: 5,000 filter points
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline) 1,000 shal-
low tubewells (depth 50 m)
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(ii) Taluks: Mannargudi, Tirutturaipurdi, Naga-
pattinam
Area description: Vennar sub-basin (Vada-
padimangalam aquifer)
Investments: 2,000 filter points
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(iii) Taluks: as listed under (i) and (ii) above
Investments: 4,000 electric pump sets
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(iv) Taluks: Orattandu, Pattukkottai
Area description: New Delta sub-basin (Salya-
mangalam aquifer)
Investments: 90 medium tubewells (depth 60 m)
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(B) Tiruchirappalli District
(i) Taluks: Alangudi, Udayiarpalayam
Area description: Miocene sands
Investments: 50 medium tubewells (depth 70 m)
Pump: 15 hp submersible or turbine (guideline)


﻿15
(ii) Taluk: Udayarpalayam
Area description: Miocene sands
Investments: 60 medium tubewells (depth 70 m)
Pump: 15 hp submersible or turbine (guideline)
(iii) Taluks: Perambalur, Lalgudi, Musiri, Tiruchi-
rappalli, Kulitalai
Area description: crystalline rock
Investments: 300 shallow tubewells (depth
50 m)
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal placed in pit (guide-
line)
(C) South Arcot District
(i) Taluk: Chidambaram
Area description: Vellar/Coleroon alluvium
reservoir
Investments: 2,500 shallow tubewells (depth
50 m)
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
(ii) Taluk: Cuddalore
Area description: Panruti
Investments: 500 medium tubewells (depth
100 m)
Pump: 5 hp centrifugal placed in pit (guide-
line)
Dugwell Development
2. (A) Chingleput District
Taluks: Kancheepuram, Madurantagam, Chingleput
(B) Dharmapuri District
Taluks: Dharmapuri, Hosur, Harur, Krishnagiri,
Uttangarai
(C) North Arcot District
Taluks: Tiravannamalai, Chengam, Vellore, Gudi-
yattam, Tirupattur


﻿16
(D) Salem District
Taluks: Sankari, Tiruchengode, Omalur, Mettur,
Rasipuram
Area description: crystalline rock
Investments: in new dugwells and the improvement
and energizing of existing dugwells to a total value
not exceeding Rs 125 million
Pumps: 5 hp centrifugal (guideline)
II. General Lending Requirements
3. Technical requirements applying to all Project minor
irrigation investments as a condition of lending:
(A) Pump-size and Instant Discharge
Each tubewell, filter point and dugwell will be
equipped with suitable pumps with a minimum of 5 hp
in order to obtain a minimum instant discharge of 10
1/second as a condition of irrigation efficiency.
(B) Spacing of Tubewells and Filter Points in Sedi-
mentary Areas
(i) The minimum distance between a tubewell or a
filter point and any other energized well will be
determined for each different groundwater res-
ervoir by the Theis formula applying an annual
minimum withdrawal of 130,000 M3 for a tube-
well and 70,000 M3 for a filter point and a
maximum drawdown of 6 m. The application of
this formula would result in a spacing range
500 m to 1,000 m for tubewells and 200 m to
600 m for filter points.
(ii) In order to obtain a good use of irrigation
water and reduce the risk of flooding, lending
banks endeavor to apply as an appraisal cri-
teria the irrigation of a minimum of 10 ha for
each tubewell and 5 ha for each filter point.


﻿17
(C) Spacing of Dugwells and Tubewells in Crystalline
Areas
(i) The minimum distance between dugwells and
tubewells will be determined by the application
of the following formula:
Rmm . eA . Aba
S   = 100
rmm
Where: Sm =distance between wells in meters.
Rmm= annual watering of irrigated land in
millimeters.
rmm = annual recharge, in millimeters, to
groundwater from rainfall, seepage from
canals and tanks, return from irrigation
occurring in the likely recharge area of
the well, to be calculated from field ob-
servations on water level fluctuations,
run-off gauging and soil retention ob-
tained from small representative basins
installed in the areas of the Project
under the responsibility of the State
Groundwater Directorate.
%= cropping intensity.
A a   minimum economic area to be irrigated
by one well.
(ii) In order to obtain a good use of irrigation water
and reduce the risk of flooding, lending banks
will endeavor to apply as an appraisal criteria
the irrigation of a minimum of 10 ha for each
tubewell and 5 ha for each dugwell, the latter
based on a discharge of 180 M3/day.
4. In addition, the following conditions will apply to all
the above proposed investments:
(a) If adequate irrigation and drainage channels did
not already exist on farms to benefit from the pro-


﻿18
posed investment, the provision of such facilities
will be a condition of a loan and could be included
in the Project financing.
(b) No energized wells will be financed within six miles
of the coast.
(c) All proposed minor irrigation investments will re-
quire a certificate of non-objection from the State
Groundwater Directorate before a loan is made.
III. Guidelines for Organization and Appraisal Procedures
Organization
5. (a) Insofar as it is not incompatible with the responsi-
bilities of ARC under the Project as the refinancing
agency, the Tamil Nadu State Groundwater Direc-
torate would exercise advisory control over Project
minor irrigation development. It will work through
two divisions: one situated in and covering the dis-
tricts of Thanjavur, Tiruchirapalli and South Arcot
in which the filter point and tubewell investments
would be located, the other situated in and covering
the districts of Chingleput, Dharmapuri, North
Arcot and Salem in which dugwell development will
be located.
(b) Both divisions will establish and maintain a census
grid map (1:63,000) of their respective areas. They
would issue to lending banks copies of the grid maps
covering areas within their lending authority. They
will guide and coordinate the activities of bank ap-
praisal teams working in their areas but will not be
responsible for staffing such teams, which remains
a banking function, assisted as appropriate by the
cooperative department and technical departments
of the Tamil Nadu State Government.
General Procedures
6. (a) Primary Banks and Participating Banks will ad-
vertise, seeking applications for loans and setting


﻿19
out lending terms and an explanation of appraisal
methods. Invitations for applications could be stag-
gered according to taluk or block.
(b) A bank appraisal team, normally consisting of a
supervisor of the lending bank, a valuation officer
and a technical officer (engineer or geologist), will
visit applicants' farms on a group basis and in the
course of appraisal will sketch on an appraisal map
(scale 1:10,000) within the areas prescribed in (c)
below, the following:
(i) all existing wells, showing whether they were
energized or not, and, if energized, whether by
electricity or diesel power;
(ii) farms and area (ha) served by each such well;
(iii) the well sites proposed for installation or elec-
trification;
(iv) farm(s) (with owners' name(,s)) to be irrigated
by proposed wells;
(v) electricity lines;
(vi) proposed irrigation channels or pipes to be in-
stalled/improved for distribution from   pro-
posed wells.
(c) The areas to be covered by the sketch maps will be,
from the proposed well:
(i) for filter points and filter point electrification,
600 m radius;
(ii) for tubewells, 1,000 m radius;
(iii) for dugwell development, 600 m radius.
(d) In addition, dugwell development appraisal will be
assessed against the estimated groundwater re-
sources of elementary watersheds and these water-
sheds will be the basic unit of group appraisal.
Calculations of groundwater recharge will be based
on estimated amounts of rainfall, runoff, evapo-


﻿20
transpiration and soil moisture parameters sup-
ported by a qualitative analysis of factors such as
gradients, soil structures, vegetation and surface
water storage. The divisions of the State Ground-
water Directorate will be responsible for demarcat-
ing the approximate limits of these watersheds and
of groundwater reservoir boundaries. In assessing
groundwater resources, the appraisal team will in
particular consider:
(i) the probability of an instant discharge of 36
AP/hour as a minimum requirement being ob-
tained from the proposed development;
(ii) the probable extent of the weathering of crystal-
line hard rock in the area of the proposed
development;
(iii) whether irrigation purposes would be better
achieved by the installation of a new well, which
should generally not exceed an investment of
Rs 12,000 or by the improvement of an exist-
ing well, at a cost generally not exceeding
Rs 5,000, by energizing an existing well or by
extending the use of water discharged from
existing wells.
(e) Proposed tubewell investments will be subject to
individual financial appraisal; all other proposed
minor irrigation investments will be subject to uni-
form financial appraisal. All appraisals will specifi-
cally include proposals on whether:
(i) there would be a group loan to farmers who
would receive water from the proposed develop-
ment;
(ii) the owner(s) would enter into an agreement to
sell water to farmers other than borrowers;
(iii) there would be other cooperative ownership
arrangements.


﻿21
(f) Lending banks will submit to the appropriate di-
vision of the State Groundwater Directorate a copy
of the sketch map with relevant information and
recommendations. The division will enter the in-
formation on its census grid map.
(g) The division will issue a certificate of non-objection
to the lending bank where it was 'satisfied that the
proposed investment was technically feasible and
conformed to the technical criteria.
(h) The division will physically check all doubtful cases
and, in addition, 10% of all recommended applica-
tions.
(i) On receipt of the division's certificate on non-
objection, lending banks will complete loan formali-
ties in the usual way and where appropriate docu-
mentation will include an agreement for the sale of
water.
B. Financial Feasibility of Farm Investments
(1) All investments shall be evaluated in terms of in-
cremental returns from the additional investment,
in accordance with the evaluation method prescribed
by ARC.
(2) Loans for tractor purchases shall be granted only
to Beneficiaries who shall (a) offer assurances that
he has or will have at the time he receives the trac-
tor, at least three implements for use with the trac-
tor; and (b) demonstrate that the tractor will be
used for cultivating not less than 40 ha of cropped
area per year or for 1,000 hrs of productive work in
agriculture per year.
(3) Tractor borrowers will be required to buy post-
warranty service on their tractors for the life of
the tractor loan.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and condi-
tions under which part of the proceeds of the Credit or the
equivalent thereof shall be relent to LDB, Participating
Banks and the Primary Banks:
1. Lending Terms to LDB and Participating Banks from
ARC:
(a) Interest rate not less than 61/2%  per annum;
(b) Repayments in installments set to coincide approxi-
mately with collections from Beneficiaries;
(c) Refinancing will be by way of purchase of deben-
tures and by loans at the rate of 90% of Agricul-
tural Loans for minor irrigation and land drain-
age; 75% of Agricultural Loans for other invest-
ment purposes.
2. Lending Terms to Primary Banks from LDB:
(a) Interest rate not less than 734%  per annum;
(b) Repayments in installments set to coincide approxi-
mately with collections from Beneficiaries;
(c) Loans will cover the total amount of Primary Banks'
lending to Beneficiaries.
3. Lending Terms to Beneficiaries from Primary Ba*ks
and Participating Banks:
(a) Interest rate not less than 9% per annum;
(b) A once-and-for-all evaluation fee of 1/%  of the cost
of individual Project costs;
(c) Collateral: 50% of developed value of land;
(d) Downpayments:


﻿23
(i) for normal lending a minimum of:
(a) 10% of the cost of land drainage and soil
conservation projects,
(b) 25% of the cost of tractor projects and
well-drilling equipment,
(e) 20% of the cost of other projects including
tractor implements;
(ii) for lending to small farmer Benficiaries (as
designated in the agreements referred to in
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement), a minimum
of 10% of the cost of minor irrigation invest-
ments costing less than Rs 10,000 each;
In all cases specified downpayments could include
the cost of the Beneficiary's obligatory share con-
tribution to the Primary Bank where LDB was the
lending bank.
(e) Maturities, which will not exceed the life of the
asset financed, will be:
(i) for normal lending a maximum of:
(-a) 9 years for tubewell or dugwell improve-
ment loans,
(b) 10 years for land levelling and land drain-
age scheme loans including two-year grace
period in which interest only will be pay-
,able,
(c) 7 years for farm mechanization, filter point
and pumpset loans,
(d) 5 years for well-drilling equipment;
(ii) for lending to small farmer Beneficiaries (as
defined for the purposes of paragraph 3(d) (ii)
above) a maximum of :
(a) 15 years for minor irrigation loans (ex-
cluding loan for pumpsets) where the in-
vestment cost less than Rs 10,000 each,


﻿24
(b) 15 years including two-year grace period
for land levelling.
In each case repayments will commence in the year
following the completion of the investment.
4. Other LDB Lending Operations:
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, LDB
and Primary Banks will apply the same evaluation fee,
collateral, downpayment and maturity requirements to
all their similar lending operations, and the same inter-
est rates to all their lending operations.


