CIRCULATING COPY
Document of        TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK(
FILE COPY 1The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1868-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR THE
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 10, 1976
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =         Cedi         (M)
US$1.00                          01.15
41.00                            US$0.87
FISCAL YEAR
July 1       -    June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB             Agricultural Development Bank
APMU            Agriculture Project  Management Unit (of Western Africa
Region IBRD)
CaDB            Cattle Development Board
CDB             Cotton Development Board
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
CRI             Crop Research Institute
CSC             Christian Services Committee
FDC             Food Distribution Corporation
FSC             Farmers Services Company   (UR) Ltd.
GBC             Ghana Broadcasting Corporation
GDB             Grain Development Board
GGADP           Ghanaian - German Agricultural Development Project
GHA             Ghana Highway Authority
GIHOC           Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation
GWC             Grain Warehousing Company
ISSER           Institute of Statistical, Social and Economic Research
MA              Ministry of Agriculture
MTI             Ministry of Trade and Industry
NRC             National Redemption Council
NIB             National Investment Bank
PCC             Project Coordinating Committee
PEMD            Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department
PTC             Project Technical Committee
RDU             Research and Demonstration Unit
RMU             Rice Milling Unit
RMWA            Resident Mission in Western Africa (IBRD - Abidjan)
SWCA            Soil and Water Conservation Working Account
SWCD            Ministry of Social Welfare and Community Development
URADPEC         Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
Executive Committee
URPMU           Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
Management Unit
URDECO          Upper Regional Development Corporation



FOR OMFFCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR THE UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ghana for the equivalent of US$21 million to help
finance the Upper Region Agricultural Development Project. The loan
would be made on standard Third Window terms of 25 years, including seven
years of grace, with interest at 4.85 percent per annum. The United Kingdom
is e-nected to contribute a loan of EStg. 4 million and a technical assistance
grant of approximately 1Stg. 1.0 million. The U.K. loan would be interest
free and would be repayable over 25 years, including seven years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Fiscal and Balance of Payments Aspects
of Ghana's Development" (638a-GH) dated May 19, 1975, was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June, 1975. Basic data are summarized in Annex I. A
special economic report on export promotion and financial intermediation is
being prepared.
General Background
3.        Compared with most other West African nations Ghana enjoys a
high standard of living; its annual per capita GNP was about US$300 in
1973. However, over the past decade and a half GDP growth averaged about
2.5 percent per annum and failed to keep pace with the growth of population.
Export growth was slow (2.3 percent per annum) and depended almost entirely
on a few traditional export commodities -- cocoa (of which it is the world's
largest producer), gold and timber. In addition to contributing 60 percent
of the country's export earnings, cocoa provided around 30 percent of govern-
ment revenue and employed upwards of 20 percent of the labor force. Although
the industrial development strategy of the early 1960s broadened the industrial
base, industry depended heavily on imported inputs. This strategy resulted
in recurrent balance of payments crises and an accumulation of external debt.
4.        Economic and social policies of the early 1960s emphasized extensive
government involvement in a wide range of social services, in setting up a
large number of state enterprises and in allocating resources through an
extensive system of physical and financial controls. Since the mid-1960s,
there has been a growing imbalance in public finances due to rapid growth of
budget current expenditure, slow growth in budget revenue and uneconomic
operations of several government enterprises. The imbalance has depressed
government development expenditures to an inadequate level and has also been
a persistent source of inflationary pressure.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        After cocoa and timber, Ghana's principal traditional exports
are gold, manganese, diamonds and bauxite. Production of most of these
minerals is stagnating, mainly because of depletion of the ore reserves.
However, a proposal for opening a new mine to produce bauxite for local
reduction to alumina to supply the existing aluminum smelter is under
study. Ghana imports its entire petroleum requirements, most of it in
the form of crude oil which is refined domestically and used chiefly as
a source of fuel for the transport sector. Hydroelectric power meets
most of Ghana's energy requirements.
6.        Despite the economic problems of the 1960s, Ghana has devoted
considerable effort to development of its human resources. The education
systmn is well established, elementary education has been free and universal
since 1962, public health facilities are fairly widespread and further expan-
sion favors rural areas. It is the declared policy of the Government to
achieve a more equitable income distribution by increasing productive invest-
ments in the rural areas, by expanding low cost rural housing and water
supply and by improving feeder roads.
7.        The preparation of a five-year Development Plan, covering the
period 1975/76-1979/80, has been virtually completed. General guidelines
for the Plan show a target GDP growth rate of 5.5 percent per annum. In
1973 and 1974 GDP rose at an average rate of 4.8 percent, but this rate
fell to below 2 percent in 1975 as a result of adverse weather and a forced
cutback in imports following a severe drain on foreign exchange reserves
in 1974. A reorientation of economic policy towards greater emphasis on
agricultural development has taken place since 1972. A three-phase "Operation
Feed Yourself" program has been started by the Government; Phase I aims to
achieve self-sufficiency in basic foods such as rice, maize, cassava and
plantain; Phase II is to bring about self-sufficiency in agricultural raw
materials for industry; and Phase III will focus on expanding agricultural
exports. Production by smallholders is being encouraged alongside large-
scale mechanized farming. In food production considerable progress has
been made in rice and maize.
Public Finance
8.        In recent years there has been a rapid increase in revenue.    This
is mainly the result of large collections of cocoa export duties, reflecting
the steep rise in the price of cocoa, and successful efforts by Government
to expand non-cocoa revenue. Current expenditure, however, has risen even
more rapidly. With a limited inflow of external capital the Government has
thus had to borrow extensively from the Bank of Ghana to finance development
expenditure, and this, along with general world inflation, has been a major
factor contributing to the high rate of domestic inflation. The national
cost of living index rose by 18 percent in 1973 and 1974 and 30 percent in
1975. The 1975/76 budget is under severe pressure as a result of stagnating
revenue and a continuing rise in expenditures, and further recourse to borrow-
ing from the banking sector will be inevitable. In July, 1975, minimum bank



deposit rates were increased from 5 to 7.5 percent and maximum lending rates
also went up by 2.5 percent, to 8.5 percent for agriculture -- with flex-
ibility for higher rates -- and to 12.5 percent for other sectors.
Balance of Payments
9.        Strict control of imports,   coupled with favorable price develop-
ments for cocoa, gold and timber, led to a strong improvement in the balance
of payments and the reserve position during 1972 and 1973. This recovery
ended abruptly in 1974 when a serious breakdown in the import licensing system,
together with the impact of higher oil prices, sharply pushed up imports and
caused an acute balance of payments crisis, reducing Ghana's net external
reserves to only a few weeks import cover (US$29 million) by the end of the
year. In September 1974, the Government introduced a series of measures to
control imports, and these have produced a significant improvement in the
reserve position, though at the cost of slowing down economic activity.
At the end of 1975 net foreign exchange reserves had increased to US$162
million, partly as a result of drawing on the IMF Oil Facility.
External Debt
10.       An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all pay-
ments due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations,
will be paid over a period of 28 years, including a grace period of 10 years,
with an interest rate-of 2-1/2 percent per annum. This agreement was the
result of more than two years of negotiations between Ghana and creditor
countries, in which the good offices of the Bank were provided. Pre-1972
trade credit arrears are gradually being cleared. At the end of February
1976, they amounted to US$61 million compared to US$188 million at the end
of 1972. Remittance of profits and dividends is still restricted.
Prospects
11.       Sharp fluctuations in revenue and export earnings will continue to
hamper an effective development policy in Ghana as diversification away from
cocoa can proceed only gradually. Recent measures on the balance of payments
and the budget reflect improved economic management, but the severe external
resource constraint and the rate of inflation require difficult policy decisions
in the near future. Very little external aid has been disbursed in Ghana over
the last few years, and a substantial inflow of capital is needed if the overall
growth target of the Plan is to be met. There is good prospect that a large
part of this aid will be forthcoming on concessionary terms -- from bilateral
donors in North America, Europe and the Middle East and from multilateral
agencies, now including for the first. time the European Development Fund. In
addition, Ghana's development prospects are, of course, also dependent on the
quality of overall economic management. While there is undoubtedly room for
further improvement, it should be mentioned that the present Government has



- 4 -
taken major steps forward with its commitment to agricultural diversification
and with the initiation of reforms in the State enterprise sector. Continued
close attention, however, will have to be paid to the restraint of private
and public consumption, so that a larger share of resources can be devoted to
investment in future. This is the crux of the problem facing the Government
in framing its budget for the coming fiscal year.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
12.       The current external debt service ratio is only 4.6 percent and
is not expected to rise above this level before the end of the decade. The
Bank Group's share of Ghana's total external debt at the end of 1974 was 12.4
percent and is expected to rise to about 20 percent over the next several years.
The Bank Group's proportion of Ghana's external debt service payments in 1974
was abnormally high at 29 percent because of the suspension of payments on
most suppliers' credits pending the negotiations of bilateral agreements. By
the end of the decade it is expected to be around 20 percent.
13.       Ghana is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window
terms because (a) its per capita income (1972) is estimated at US$300;
(b) overall economic performance, while weak in some aspects, is being
strengthened in key areas such as external debt management, agricultural
diversification, management of state enterprises, expansion of non-cocoa
revenue and the formulation of a new five-year development plan; (c) Ghana
has the ability to repay limited amounts of additional Bank lending although,
in view of the country's vulnerability to fluctuations in the prices of
cocoa and other primary products, it is desirable that future debt service
obligations should be kept as low as possible; (d) access to alternative
sources of capital is at present largely limited to a small number of
official donors who require time to rebuild their project pipelines follow-
ing the resolution of the external debt issue which had resulted in the
interruption of traditional aid flows.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
14.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made six loans totalling US$118 million -- two for the
Volta dam and associated infrastructure works for electricity generation,
one for telecommunications, one for highways, one for cocoa and one for the
National Investment Bank; IDA has extended 12 credits totalling US$96.5
million -- five for agriculture (including livestock, cocoa and fisheries),
two for water supply and sewerage, two for power distribution and three
for highways. Annex II contains a summary statement of loans and credits
as of April 30, 1976, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
There are no IFC investments.



15.       Ghana is currently engaged in restructuring its economy with the
principal objective of reducing dependence on imports, achieving greater
self-sufficiency in agricultural products, particularly food, expanding
cocoa production for export and improving infrastructure support for an
expanding economy. The main thrust of the Bank Group's operations in Ghana
is to assist the Government in achieving these objectives, with emphasis on
institution building and training of Ghanaian nationals for project prepara-
tion and improved implementation.
16.       In addition to the proposed Upper Region Agricultural Development
Project, which would help to increase agricultural production and farm incomes,
the Bank Group is also assisting the Government to strengthen the power sector.
A power distribution project and hydroelectric project at Kpong on the Volta
river have recently been appraised, the latter to be financed by the Bank and
a number of bilateral and multilateral aid agencies. Following the last Annual
Meeting of Governors of the Bank, the Government requested assistance in
designing and implementing projects to help the urban poor. A Bank mission
has identified a possible project in this area and assistance is being provided
from the Project Preparation Facility to help prepare the project. Funds from
the Preparation Facility have also been approved to help finance preparation
work on the proposed Kibi bauxite/alumina project. In addition, a small
industries project is being prepared for possible Bank Group assistance.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
17.       Agriculture accounts for about 40 percent of GDP and more than
70 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The rural population is estimated
at about 6 million,-or two-thirds of the total population, although signif-
icant migration is now taking place from rural to urban areas. About 80
percent cf the land is held under a "communal" or tribal system, and pro-
duction is characterized primarily by a large number of individual small-
holders. Agricultural productivity is low; value added in agriculture is
estimated at 0420 per worker compared with an average of 0855 elsewhere in
the economy. On the whole, agricultural production methods are still trad-
itional and, except for perennial crops, shifting cultivation is practiced.
18.       During the 1960s the Government invested in large capital-intensive
state farms, and gave little help to the private sector, mainly smallholders
who account for more than 90 percent of agricultural production. This policy
was abandoned in 1970, and in 1972 a new policy was adopted to stimulate
expansion in agricultural production and reduce dependence on agricultural
imports. The policy involved introduction of a number of farmer incentives,
including subsidized farm inputs, subsidized interest rates on credit from
the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), high guaranteed producer prices
for rice and cotton, import tariff concessions on farm equipment, tax
holidays, and guarantees by the Bank of Ghana to commercial banks lending
for agriculture.



19.       Implementation of the above policy is running into serious problems,
however, mainly because (i) subsidies on farm inputs and production have
resulted in an increased fiscal burden on the Government; (ii) the policy
generally has favored larger farmers; (iii) the subsidy structure is such
that operations that would normally not be economically and financially
viable at market prices can be sustained. The Government is fully cognizant
of these difficulties and has undertaken a review of all agricultural prices
and subsidy policies to be completed by June 30,1977. More important, the
Government has initiated a new policy on fertilizer subsidies; over the five-
year period 1977-81, fertilizer subsidies will be phased out completely.
The first step will be taken in December 1976 when Government will set the
1977 farmgate price for fertilizer. This price will be equivalent to an
increase of about 150 percent over current prices, which, for the Upper Region,
would reflect a subsidy equivalent to 58 percent, as compared with the present
88 percent.
The Upper Region
20.       The Upper Region, located in the far north of Ghana, covers about
11 percent of total land area. Estimated population is about 930,000, com-
prising approximately 125,000 farm families, who form nine ethnic groups,
each with its own separate language. Agricultural production in the region
consists of a complex system of annual cropping and livestock competing for
a limited land area. Environmental problems are compounded further by the
loss of good arable land to onchocerciasis (river blindness), trypanomiasis
(sleeping sickness) and rapidly increasing soil erosion.
21.       Agricultural development efforts in Ghana have tended to produce
some regional imbalance in the past. For example, from 1971 to 1974 the
Upper Region's share of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget was only about
3 percent, although it has about 10 percent of the country's population.
Recently, however, the percentage has been increased to 14, reflecting the
Government's emphasis on irrigation and the overall awareness of the Region's
particular problems. Still, Government's agricultural development policies
for the region have tended to favor relatively large-scale farms, both private
and state, and expensive irrigation schemes.
22.       The Region's small farmers have developed an intricate system of
mixed cropping that is designed to give maximum insurance against vagaries
of climate and disease. Millet and sorghum are the most important food
crops, and the principal cash crops are groundnuts, rice and,more recently,
cotton. Many smallholders also raise livestock. There is little surplus
production. Because of the complexities in production systems and their
interdependence, proposals were put to Government by a Bank identification
mission in October 1974 that the Region be developed as a whole, with
initial emphasis placed on sustainable agricultural production and improved
farm incomes. The proposed project sets out to achieve these objectives.



- 7 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
23.       In response to a government request, the proposed project was
prepared by the bank in conjunction with the Ministry of Agriculture and
other government agencies. An appraisal mission visited Ghana in November/
December, 1975; its report entitled "Upper Region Agricultural Development
Project" (No. 1061-GH, dated June 3, 1976) is being distributed separatelv to
the Executive Directors. A loan and project summary is presented in Annex
III. Negotiations took place in Washington from May 8 to May 14. The
Ghanaian delegation was led by Dr. S.K.B. Asante, Deputy Attorney-General.
Project Description
24.       The project, the first Bank operation for integrated agricultural
development in Ghana, would cover the whole of the Upper Region. It would
provide most of the 125,000 farm families living in the area with improved
support services, farm inputs and physical infrastructure. The project has
two principal objectives:
(i)   to increase agricultural production and thus farm incomes;
(:ii)  to establish permanent farmer support services.
The project would be carried out over a five-year investment period, 1e76/77
to 1980/81, and would involve:
Farm Development
(i)   the establishment of about 90 service centers to provide
extension services and farm inputs to farmers;
(ii)   providing farm inputs and credit facilities to increase
production of about 108,000 ha. of land presently under
cultivation;
(iii)   providing improved onfarm grain storage;
(iv)   providing improved animal health services and animal
husbandry, and establishing ten small (2,000 ha.) ranches
for local livestock owners;
(v)   improved applied research and seed multiplication programs;
(vi)   establishing a pilot functional literacy scheme;
(vii)   the expansion of Ghana Broadcasting Corporation's facilities
through a regional radio network   to support the agricultural
and rural development program;
(viii)   improving human nutrition and health;
(ix)   training of personnel.



-8-
Physical Infrastructure
(i)   the construction of about 120 new small dams and rehabilit-
ation of about 100 existing dams, together with associated
structural works;
(ii)   developing soil conservation measures to protect some 160,000
ha. of farm land;
(iii)   constructing 700 village wells;
(iv)   constructing stores, offices at farm service centers, project
offices and staff housing; provision of vehicles and other
equipment;
(v)   construction of two cotton ginneries.
Institutional Support
(i)   establishing the Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
Management Unit (URPMU), to be responsible for implementing
the project;
(ii)   establishing the Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. which will
be responsible for farm input distribution;
(iii)   strengthening of existing agricultural institutions (the
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) and the Upper Region
Development Corporation (UREDCO)).
Development Planning
(i)   establishing, under direct control of the project, a special
Onchocerciasis Survey Unit to prepare a ten-year development
plan and feasibility studies for investment projects for areas
freed from onchocerciasis in the Upper and Northern Regions of
Ghana.
Project Costs and Financing
25.       Total project costs are estimated at US$54.6 million, net of
duties and taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$32.5 million,
about 60 percent of total costs. The estimated total project cost includes
a 5 percent physical contingency on all costs, and price contingencies
ranging from 7 to 22 percent between 1976 and 1980 for equipment, live-
stock, farm inputs (excluding fertilizers), and construction materials.
Contingencies are equivalent to 27 percent of total costs.



- 9 -
26.       The United Kingdom Government is joining with the Bank to
provide funds for the project, which would be financed as follows:
Total Cost           Foreign Cost
(US$m)        (%)    (US$m)          (%)
Bank                      21.0         38     21.0            65
U.K.1/                    11.0         20     11.0            34
Government                13.7         25      0.5             1
Local financial
institutions and farmers 8.9          17       -             -
54.6        100      32.5          100
The U.K. funds would be provided as an interest free loan repayable over
25 years, including 7 years of grace.   Local financial institutions expected
to participate in project financing include the Bank of Ghana, Agricultural
Development Bank, National Investment Bank and the three commercial banks.
Retroactive financing from the date of negotiations is recommended for up
to $750,000 for the employment of key staff and for construction of 20 houses
and offices.
Project Execution
27.       The proposed project would be executed   by the Upper Region
Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (URADPEC), already
created by a special Government Order, and would be managed by a Project
Management Unit (URPMU) established at Bolgatanga. The URADPEC, consisting
of senior representatives from Accra of the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture,
Labor,Social Welfare and Cooperation, Economic Planning and other agencies
as well as local farmers, would be responsible to the Commissioner of
Agriculture; it would determine agricultural and development policy,
exercise budgetary and audit control and be responsible for coordination
of project activities at ministerial level. The Project Management Unit,
in collaboration with the new Farmers Services Company, would be responsible
for the day to day operations of the project. URPMU would consist basically
of existing personnel of the Ministry of Agriculture now located in the Upper
Region together with other staff recruited locally and internationally. It
would be managed by a Project Manager who would report directly to the Chairman
of URADPEC (Commissioner of the Upper Region). Its regional operational
activities would be coordinated through a Project Coordinating Committee.
1/ bStg. 4.0 million would finance preselected and competitive U.K. manu-
factured goods (para. 35), which at the time of cost estimation, June
1975, were valued, including contingencies, at US$8.8 million wher
bStg. 1 was equivalent to US$2.2. The remainder of the US$11.0 million
shown in the table is accounted for by the technical assistance grant of
about EStg. 1.0 million, equivalent at mid-1975 to US$2.2 million.



- 10 -
A Project Technical Committee would ensure adequate technical coordination
and feedback between the project, the heads of technical departments of the
Ministry of Agriculture's headquarters in Accra, and the country's research
organizations. Both committees would be established as a condition of Loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (f) of the Loan Agreement).
28.       The Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. (FSC) would be established
as a condition of loan effectiveness to provide farm input supplies and
mecharical hire services to the Region's farmers (Section 6.01 (d) of Loan
Agreement). In order to ensure proper coordination between URPMU and the
FSC, the Project Manager would be Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors.
The role of the FSC would be to procure, distribute and sell recommended farm
inpuLt through the project's 90 service centers.   The Company would sell
inputs on a commercial basis (a 20 percent mark-up is expected to be necessary
on the basis of present price structures to cover overheads and profit) for
either cash or deferred payments. The Company would provide inputs only to
those farmers approved by the prolect technical staff. Farmers' associations
would assist in identifying recipients of deferred payment privileges ,or
farm inputs and would have collective liability for repayments. Prices
for goods purchased on deferred payments would be 12 percent above cash
prices, but a discount would be made for early repayments. The Company would
also act as agent for the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) which would
provide oxan, ox-drawn equipment and transistor radios to farmers. Credit
to ranch companies established under the project would be made directly by
ADB. Seasonal, medium or long-term loans to farmers would bear interest
plus service charges,if any,of not less than 12 percent per annum.
29.       The FSC would have an authorized share capital of M12.0 million,
of which 04.1 million will be subscribed by local financing institutions.
Other subscribers would include the Government, the Bank of Ghana and the
National Investment Bank. Government would initially be the majority share-
holder with a financial equity of 01.0 million (US$0.8 million) provided
from Bank and UK external funds and equity in kind comprising existing land
and storage facilities. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that,
in the event of equity participation failure by a commereial bank or invest-
ment agency, Government would undertake to increase its own equity accordingly
(Section 4.08 (c), Loan Agreement). The farmers would obtain equity through
a compulsory 2-1/2 percent mark-up on the c.i.f. store price of purchased
inputs which would be credited to their share accounts. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the company would be exempt from duties, taxes
and import restrictions for its first five years of operation (Section 4.08
(b)).
Farm Development
30.       Each of the 90 service centers would be located strategically
throughout the Region and would serve some 1,300 farmers within a radius
of 5 to 6 miles. Each center would be the focal point for farmers groups



- 11 -
or associations, agricultural extension, nutrition and health services,
marketing, maintenance of farm machinery and equipment and the supply of
inputs. Farm grain storage would be improved using simple methods already
established in the Region such as provision of cement for plastering store
walls and concrete slabs to seal the tops of stores. Animal health services
would be strengthened through the provision of veterinary services and vaccina-
tions against prevalent diseases such as rinderpest, blackleg and anthrax.
The 10 ranches would be developed near Tumu (see map) and would be owned
and managed by individuals or groups of cattle owners residing in the Region.
The ranches would produce cattle for sale locally or to the meat processing
plant at Bolgatanga. Seven applied research and demonstration units would be
estahlished primarily for adapting research results obtained by the Crop
Research Institute's main stations in Kumasi, Mange and Tamale to project
conditions. The units would also be used for second stage seed multiplica-
tion. Radio broadcasting would involve establishment of an FM radio network
and supporting services to assist in motivating active project participants
through community news, market information and continuous support to inservice
training of field staff. Receiving sets would be sold by the Farmers Services
Company for cash or credit. The network, based in Bolgatanga, would initially
broadcast in three major regional languages and English. A functional literacy
pilot scheme would involve some 60 classes grouping 1,500 participants in the
areas served by four service centers. The scheme would be based on the teach-
ing of information immediately usable during project implementation (e.g.
agricultural advice, payment documents related to farm inputs, market receipts).
In addition, the project would provide a specialized nutritionist to develop
simple programs using agricultural extension workers and radio. An inservice
training facility for project staff would be introduced at the existing
agricultural institute at Navrongo.
Physical Infrastructure
31.       The project would include construction of 120 small earth dams,
each with a minimum capacity of 120,000 m3, and rehabilitation of about 100
(50 percent) of the existing dams. Because of the flexibility required in
the construction and rehabilitation of small dams, the work would be under-
taken on force account by the project unit. Small contractors would be used
on an ad hoc basis. It is estimated that the average dam would have surplus
capacity to irrigate an average of 5 ha. and that about 750 ha. of land would
be irrigated under the project. The irrigation program would be simple and
would allow for dry season gardening. To complement an ongoing village
borehole scheme, the project would provide materials for construction, on a
self-help basis, of about 700 village wells. Each well would be suitably
lined, sealed and fitted with a pump. The project would also include measures
to protect a minimum of 160,000 ha.of farm land from further serious soil
erosion. Priority would be given to conserving the catchment areas of exist-
ing and new dams. Two cotton ginneries and associated storage would be con-
structed at Wa and Zwarungu. Each would have a minimum through-put of 9,000
tons seed cotton per annum. The gins would be owned and operated by the
Cotton Development Board.



- 13 -
35.       The United Kingdom funds would be deployed as fc]lows: The equivalent
of US$2.5 million at June 1975 prices would be granted to URPMNU for plant,
equipiilent and spare parts; US$0.3 million would be for FSC, in the form of equ1ity
for vehicles and equipment; US$1.0 million would be onlent to the Cotton
Development Board (CDB) at 8.85 percent for 15 years, with five years
grace for principal, for the establishment of cotton ginneries and stores;
US$1.6 million would be onlent to FSC at 8.85 percent for 25 years, with
seven years grace for principal, to purchase incremental farm inputs;
US$0.7 million would be granted to GBC for the purchase and installation
of radio broadcasting equipment; US$2.2 million would cover the cost of UK
technical assistance staff to various project agencies; and US$2.7 million
would be reserved to cover unallocated costs.
36.       The local financing agencies would provide US$3.0 million equi-
valent for short-term overdraft facilities to TSC at 8.85 percent, repay-
able within 12 months, to cover the local cost of incremental seasonal
farm inputs, and US$3.6 million as equity in the Farmers Services Company.
The Agricultural Development Bank would provide US$2.3 million equivalent
for the local cost component of long ar,d medium-term loans to ranchers
and farmers. The remaining furnds would be provided by Government and
would include subventions of US$1.0 million equivalent to Ghana Broadcasting
Corporation, US$0.6 million to the Cott:on Development Board, and US$7.9
million to the Project Management Unit. Unallocated funds estimated at
US$4.2 million equivalent are reserved for contingencies. In addition
Goverment would provide funds to finance the incremental subsidies due to
the project, estimated at US$2.0 million equivalent for seed cotton and
US$5.9 million for fertilizers, to be paid to the Cotton Development Board
and Farmers Services Company respectively.
Procurement
37.       Procurement of radio telephones, broadcasting equipment, land
development heavy plant and equipment, cotton ginnery equipment and build-
ings, four-wheel drive vehicles, trucks, spare parts, pumps and pipes for
wells, cotton sprayers, insecticides, and fungicides totaling US$8.8 million
equivalent that are to be financed by the U.K. would be undertaken in the United
Kingdom, where prices are expected to be internationally competitive. Procurement
of other vehicles, animal drugs, equipment, transistor radios, aerial photography,
fertilizers, pesticides, tools, livestock and other farm and ranch equipment under
contracts with a value of more than US$50,000 would be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.    Such procurement
is estimated to have a value of US$13.2 million equivalent; items purchased
through contracts of less than US$50,000 are not expected to exceed a limit
of US$1.0 million and would be procured under local procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15 percent
preference when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers.
Contracts for the construction of buildings, houses, and the purchase of
construction materials and furnishings valued at US$9.1 million would not
be very attractive to foreign suppliers due to the dispersed location of the
units and the small size of individual contracts; for these items, contracts



- 14 -
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank,and in these
cases foreign firms and suppliers would not be precluded from bidding.
It is likely that the construction of service center buildings and village
wells would be under the supervision of the technical division of the
Ministry of Social Welfare and Community Development. Construction of
small damas and soil conservation works would be undertaken by the Project
Management Unit on force account. An estimated US$10.4 million would
be for incremental labor, staff salaries, allowances, hiring of consultants,
vehicle maintenance and operation, overseas training and general admini-
strative costs that would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. Ghana
has no preferential import tariff arrangements. To protect the project
fro-., procurement delays, assurances were obtained that Government would,
within two months of loan effectiveness, take the necessary action
to ensure thaw tile goods imported directly under the project would be
exempt from any import restrictio'iL and duties   (Section 3.06, Loan
Agreement).
Disbursemient
38.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over five years
to-cover 38 percent of total pro-lect costs as follows: (a) 100 percent
of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported vehicles and equipment (other
than farm equipment), sawgins and associated equipment, veterinary drugs
and aerial photography (or 86 percent of the cost of these items if locally
procured), totaling US$2.9 million; (b) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of
directly imported fertilizers, ox-drawn equipment, batteries, transistor
radios, livestock and other ranch and farm equipment (or 65 percent of the
cost of these items if procured locally), totaling US$6.0 million; (c) 100
percent of the cost of internationally recruited staff, including their
salaries, allowances and recruitment costs, and overseas training for local
staff, totaling US$0.8 million;   (d) 50 percent of the cost of buildings
(excluding buildings for FSC and CDB), including furnishings, and con-
struction materials for dams, soil conservation, wells and grain stores,
totaling US$3.6 million; (e) 50 percent of vehicle and plant operating
costs (excluding FSC), totaling US$2.1 million; and (f) an unallocated
amount totaling US$5.6 million.
Risks
39.        The proposed project deals mainly with smallholders, who con-
stitute the predominant farming group in the Region, and depends critically
on adequate rainfall as well as timely staffing of a number of new
organizations. Thus the risks involved are ccnsiderable. However, it
is believed that the project would minimize such risks, given the provi-
sion of proven technical innovations and competent management. Smallholders
in the Region are hard working and the increased production that would result
from the project is in high demand on the doTleStic market. There are no



- 15 -
ecological conditions that presently pose severe health problems, except
onchocerciasis and trypanosomiasis in certain sections. On the contrary,
the project will help to improve -the overall environment and close monitoring
of project implementation will ensure any corrective action that may be
required.
Benefits and Justification
40.       The project should benefit most of the Region's 125,000 farm
families through a reliable input delivery service, advanced husbandry
practices, and an improved agricultural extension service. Direct bene-
ficiaries could vary between 60 and 90 percent of total farmers, but
under the assumption that all farmers in the Region would benefit equally
from the increased production, the project at full development would
incre-'e average farm income from crop production by 32 percent from the
present 0.280 annually to 0370. This would represent a 6 percent annual
increase in per capita income over the project development period, from
041 to 054. Livestock production could increase average farm family
income even more from presently negligible cash income to as much as
080 per year by 1990. The overall economic rate of return is estimated
at 40 percent; for the ranching component the return is 31 percent,
at a cost of 01.0 million; for the crop production component 33 percent
at a cost of V44.8 million; for animal health 95 percent at a cost of
02.7 million. Analysis shows that, if the area under improved production
were reduced to 55,000 ha. with a commensurate reduction in farm inputs,
the project would still be economically viable.
41.       The project would result in net incremental foreign exchange
earnirns equivalent to US$23 million per annum at full development in
1981. The incremental output would require the equivalent of 22,000
man-years of additional farm labor input, some of it paid labor, thereby
substantially reducing under-employment in the rural areas of the Region.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
42.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ghana and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4,
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and a draft Resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
43.        Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 27, 28, 29, 33 and 37 of this report.
44.        Additional conditions of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01) are that:
(a)   Ghana  has set up an account for the Project Management
Unit (URPMU) with a commercial bank in Bolgatanga and
with an initial deposit of 03.0 million, and made arrange-
ments for an overdraft facility of at least 03.0 million-
(b)   URPMU's Project Manager and Chief of Field Operations have
been appointed;



- 16 -
(c)   The Farmers Services Company has been established and
its Managing Director appointed;
(d)   Ghana has reached agreement with the United Kingdom on
the terms and conditions for the U.K. financial contri-
bution to the project; and
(e)   The Project Coordinating Committee and the Project
Technical Committee have been established.
45.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for
Third Window loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
46.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 10, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 14 pages
TABLE 3A
GHNAA                    SOlCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (TMDU KN2)                           ---------------             -----------
--------                                        GHANA                                    REFERENCE COUNJRIES (19?0)
TOTAL        258.5                                            MOST RECENT
AGRIC.           ..1960                                 1970    ESTIMATE             MOZAMBI1GUE     ECUADOR          MALAYSIA ~
GMP 'ER CAPITA    CUSS)19.                                  200          300                   310.0       200.0        44EC.O
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
PO'ULATIONt (MIODYR. MILLION)                        6.7     86          9.3                  7.7          6.1         Ic.9
PO'ULAT13N DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                             20.0         36.0         39.0                  10.0         21.0         13.0
PIER SQUARE KM.   AGRiC. LANnl.                            .            ..                             10 3.0
VITAL STATISFICS
CRUDE B!RT,4 RATE PER THOUSAND             4f9.5        4.                                 143.0        14i9 1.      34.    o
CRJDE DEATH R4TE PER THOUSAND              ?4.0         18.0o*                             23.0         11.14  5.     7. 0 
INFANT MORIALITY RATE C/THOU)             156.0        156.0            .                  93.0         77.0   .     41.0    aIs
LICE EIPECIANCT AT BIRTH (YRSI           .         46.0         49.0                  141.0        57.0         64.0    a~
GROSS REPRO9UCT[ON RATE                       .          3. 2          3.2                  2.8          3.3          2.8
POPULATION GHOWTH RATE (1)
tOTAL                                       2.2          2. 6         2.6                   1.9          3.4          I.
JRBAN                                        ..          5.0          5.0                   6.0          5.0
URIAN POPULATION (1 OF TOTAL)                23.0         2 9. 0       31.0                  55.o         38.0         29. 0/
AG~ STRUCTURE: (PERCENT)
0TO 14 YEARS                             44.5         46.9                               h514.3       48.0    ~    45.0   1a.
15 TO 6. TY.ARS                            52. 3        49.5            5. 2.7                          49.01        52.0    ,
65 TEARS AND OVER                           32.62.0                                                      3.     ~     30 
AGE )EPENDENCY RATIO                          0.9           1.0           .                   0.9          I.     ~     C9    /
EC3NaMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      3.2 /a.      1. 4          ..1.3                            1.L.         1.6    j
FAIILT PL4NNi4G-
ACCEP'TORS (CUMULATIVE.     THOIU).                     11.0         93.9                    ..          149        21C.0   /a
JSERS (I OF ,l4RqIEO WOMEN)                  .           2.0            ...                               .            .0   7-
EMPLO VNE NT
TOTAL LABOR F ORCE (THOUSAND)              2730.0       3300.0            .                2900.0       1900.0       290C.0   /a
LA)OR FORCE 14 AGRICULTURE CX)               58.0         54.0            .                  73.0         54.0         47.0 
URE4PLOTED (I OF LABOR FORCE)                 6.0           5.0/                                                         E .  ...(0  8
INCOME DISTIRUtION
% 1V PRIVATE INCORE REC*0 BY-
HIGHEST    5% OF POPULATION                   ...                                             .         43.0C         R3    /
HIGHEST 201 OF POPULATION                    T..                        ..                               2.0 C       ,A.D   T
LOWEST    201 OF POPULATION                   .                         ..                               1B
L)WEST    401 IF POPULATION                  1.2                                                                     LI 
DISTS IBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
3 O4ED BY TO- 103 OF OWNERS                    .            ..
1 OWNED NT SMALLEST 101 OWNFRS                   .                         .
HEALtH AND NUTRITION
PO'ULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ?1360.0      1 Z950. 0/b  12390.0 /a            11480.0      2930.0        3860.0 1a8d
POPULATION PLR NURSING PERS9N                  ..        oro.o79     1050.0 7.             L4780.0     8630.0        L08C.O   8..
PO'ULATIOA PEA HOSPITAL 410ED                            76O.O        78 0.)0               610.0o      4.30. 0       2 ?C .  £8a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIRE4ENTS)               59.0         96.0        101.0                  914.0        89.0         9! 0 /a f
'ROTEIN (GRAMS PER SAY)                    45.0         46.0         49.0                  1.090                     450___
'OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                 4.1.                       .12.0/                         22.0          4C.   fa,f
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                     .                          .                              13.0           5.5
EDUCATION
ADJJStED ENROLLMENT RATIO
'RIMART SCH30.                             59. 0        8 9.0                              55 S./b      950           ,.   /a
SECONDARY ,CHOOL                            2.0 /b       5. 0           .                    4           403.
YER  FSCHGOLING PROVIDED                                                                             2
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVE.L)                  15. 0        1 5. 0       15.0                  10.0         12.0        1I0    La
VOCAT1IDNAL ENROLLMENT
It OF SECONDARY)                           13.0 /b      23S.0        15.0                  53.0 /b      29.0          3.0  /a.
ADJLT LITERACY RATE (U                          .            ....                                         6B. 0        F 7.0
HOUSING
P'ERSN    PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                     .             ..                                ..                        .
OCCU'IED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
'IPED WATER (3)                               ..                                              ..                      50 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                                     .   h
(I OF ALL OWELLINGS)                          ...                                             ..                     40
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNIECTED
TO ELECTRICITY Cl)                           .              ..                                ..                     3C.0
CONSJ NPTFION
RADII RECEIVES-S (PEP THOU PnP)               17.0         78.0         85.0                 12.0        279.0         4 1. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PEP THOU POP)                  3.0          4. 0         4. 0                10.0          4 .0        2!.O
ELCCTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                 55.0        338. 0        3 68. 0               68.0        156.0        366.0 /a.
NE S'R INT (KG/YR PER CAP)                    0. 6          0. 4         0.6                  0.02         2 .3          4. 0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of I pages
big=
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwee 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Nest Recent Estimate between
1971 and 1973.
-cMalaysia bee bee   selected -  an objective  ooUnts  on the batis that Gthana is striving to achieve 3-Li percent per enttum increase in GNP per capita
end -an dequate le-vel of social welfare, end price stablity with the necessary structure changes in the enonob which Malaysia has successfully
accosplished in tie rent past.
ItINA         196     A    kaio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor foros;      lb  Public education only.
197_0   /a   Registered only;   /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;     /i 1966-68.
MOST LEWIM ESTIKIATE, a Registered, not all practicing in the country.
MOZAMBIQUE    1970     /a  196h-66;   lb  1967.
P.CUAmnH      1970         UNil estimate, esciuding nosadic Indian tribes; the credoe birth and death rates arc 38.0 and tl.0;   /b  Potts of snms7e-in-
Under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;      .  Inoose recipients, Individuais who receive indeR    cC any hind,
including trwanfer incosa and social security benefits.
MALAYSIA      1970     a   Went RalaYsia;   /bLRegistered applicants for weit;     /.   Households;   /d, Regis-reu, not all practicing in the country;
Ci lo-reneent only;   /f  196li-66;  a   1967;    A   Piped water inside.
R5, Apr4l1i2, 1976
SEPINIT IRNS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
tedAea (thou ho 2)                                                                   Potuation pe   nurienesn- Population divided by number of proc.t..-
Tier7otlsufce area comprising land area and island waters,                       ia ae          entl grathiate naes"troioed" or "certified" nurses,
ic. _ mont recet estimste of agricultural area used temporarily or per-                 and auxiliary personnel with training or experience,
mancnoly for crops, pootores, marhet & hitchen gardeno or to lie fallow.              Pouaion iper honnit.i bed - Population divided by sn-ber of hospital
beds avaiabe    npulin and private general and speciolined hospit.i
GNP p  i~    ~  -GNP per c.pit.i estimates at narket prices, nal,,u-                and rehobilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and establishments
nSae conversion method as World Bach Atlas (1972-74 basis),                   fur custodial and preventive care.
Per capita supply of calories (5 of requlratents) - Computed fin energy
P...inand vital statistics                                                          equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita por
P.p.iioo    (.tdiyreilli-s   - As of duly first; if cct aviloble. av     gorg             day; evailoble supplie   nmpis    dawsiic production, inporto leso
of two en d-year  sti,sate.                                                             exports, cod changes in stck; net suppliss exlude aonial foed, seds,
quantities used in foocd process ing and loo-se to distribution; ye-
Poculation"O dnIty - pr       -r om - Mid-year populstioc per square bilb-                quirements were estimsted by PAD hosed .. physiological nee ds for
meter (lO  benteres)r eftotal Area,                                                     normal activity and health considering environmental temperature,
Population dest     - per suare knn of ocric. land - Coopuied ccs Above for               body weights, age and sex dintributions of population, and allowing
agiuluo 4ood only                                                                 l'%  for waste at household leve.
Per no pta su ply of protein(cran    oar day) - Pro tain content of per
Vital Statistics                                                                           apinesupply offodpedy              net supply of food in dsfined An
frode birth rate e4   touan    - Ansoo1 live births per thousand of old-                  above; requirecents for all countries established by USIA Economic
year pp     t.        .I  fiv-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                    Research Services provide for a minimum Allowance of 60 grass of total
1975 for developing countries.                                                          protein par day, and 20 grams of animal end pulse protein, of which 10
Crode doath rate per thousand - Ans..ol deatha per tho--od of sod-year                    gram  should be unonc protain; these standards are lower than those
populIAtion; onuolly fios-ysor averages renting in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  of 75 grat of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein An an aver-
for developing   .ountries,.                                                            age for the   nr1d, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Surrey.
Infast -artalty rate C/thou) - Annual deatho of infants tunder one year                 Per caiapoenspl fre            anma and pulse - Protein supply of food
Of ag  pe   huadlv          iths.                                                       derived fra  anis  oan     use   ngrams, Par day.
tif  ex4pectancy at birth (yrs) - Average en-sr of years of life remain-                Det     aeUho)Ae           - - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
lag At birth; uno-1ly five-year averages ending in i960t, 1970 and                     -h_ years. to children us thin Aag grop; soggentad As as indicator
1975 for deveaeping c.outries,                                                          of nalnutritio..
Gros s reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman, will
bear in her normal reprotuntive period if she experiences present age-                Education
oDec ifin fertility rates; usually five-year corgsending is 1960,                     Adjusted enrollmen raio -    rimar school - Enrollment cf all ages as
1970 and 1975 far developing countries.                                                 pecoaec        rnr     colaeppulation; uncudes children aged
Popultion growth rots (5) - total-Compouwtd ean-al growth rates of aid-                   6-11 years bitt adjusted for different length. of primary education;
year poplaio    rfor 1950-61, 19760-70, and 1960 to cost reanet year.                   for countries with universal eduction, enral1sest may exced 100%
Populationoot rtc (5) - uban - Compuited like growth rate of ittel                        since sman pupils ar below or above the official school age.
population; differest definitions of urban Areas say affect comp~ar-                  Adjusted enrollment ratio - secndary school - Computed as above; sec-
bility of data aong countries.                                                          andary education requires at least four yearn of approved primary
Urban population (5 of total) - BaLls of urban to total popuietiom; dif-                  instrautios; provides general, vocational or teacher training instrec-
ferent definitions of orha   areas say affect -ooparability of data                     Lions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correpondence coursesar
am,ng countrie.                                                                         generatly exccluded.
Age st_~t  ':r     - Children (0-14 years). -rking-age (15-64 yeas),             Years of schoolin    reid(fstand secnd levels) -Ttlyaso
red tired  6  years and over) as percenteges of old-year population.                  schooling; at secondar  leel vocational instruction say be partlaIly
Ag   :,dLLratio -Rtoopouainunder i5 and 65 and over eo                            or completely ecciudad.
thos  oags7       thugh 64.                                                           Vocation1al nrollment (of oeoas)          - ictioca1 intitutions include
Ecos-min depeedency ratio - RatIo of po...Ila,ns under 15 and 65 And over                 techni-Il, ind.stria  ooteprgram         which operate independently
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.                                         or as deportomots of secondary insttitotoun.
Faiy  muing -  cetr     cuuaie       hu) - CumulatIve nunber of                    Adl     ieayrate (         - Literate adults (Able to read and write) as
acceptors of birti-contIro  devices under auspices of national fanily                   preteof tntal adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning pragra_ since incption.
fradly 1ja9 ing - usersg(5ofM mriedwomen) - Percentages of nmarried                     Hu   n
women of chil-eaigag         3    -l yers) who use birth-control do-                  Persons per rom (average) - Average number of persnas per room, in oc-
vices to all married -mxe   in same age grop,                                           copied conventional deallings in urban areas; dwellings exclude con-
permanent atretures and unoccupied parts.
Mt                                                          ~~~~~~~            ~   ~~~~~~~~~~Ocouiedwelig without piped wateri(5  - Occupied convetional
TOta l   or f,rce (thousand) - Econmically activ     persons, including                   dweling   i uraan       rua   ara     ihut inside or outside piped
armed forces and oompleyed hut esluding housewives, stadeets, etc.;                     water facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not nomperable.                                  Acces ha electricity (5 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings
Labor force in agrioitwlue (5) - Agricultu,al labor force (in farming,                    with electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwelllnga
forestry, hunting and fishing) as percetage of total labor force,                      in urban and rural arenas.
Uneoployed fl    I '! la    )- Unemployed are asualIy defined an pesons                 Rural dwellings connectetd to electricity (5) - Computed as above for
who aeable an     w      i ltotake a job, out of a job on a given day,                  rura  dwellings only.
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum,
period net exceeding me wash; say not be comparable between noun-                     Consumption
tries dtoe to di fferent definitions of unemployed and saurca of data,                Radio receivers (cpr thou pop) - All type. of recetysr   for radio broad-
e.g., employment office stitc, seample sorveys, compulsoryus-                           casts to general public per thousan d of population; encludes unli-
ployssnt ins uranos.                                                                    ceased receivers in osuntriss and in reare when registratimon  kmrdio
sets was, in effect; data for recent rare say not be comparable stirs
Income ditat bni tion - Percentage of prints income (both in cash And                     east countries abol,ished licensing.
kind) received by ricihest 5%. richest ~-0%, posrest 90%, And poorest                 Passengercar   (pr thou pop) - Pass enger oars comprise macor oars sa-t-
0%n of population.                                                                      toiln    tha  eigh t persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and mii-
tary vehicles.
Ditotrlbstion of lau.oneirship - Percentagee of load owned by wealthb-                  KleCtrkit5y (kwhlyr ver cp) - Annual o.nnsumption of industrial, con-
test I9 An d Pooret 1      f land owners.                                               marcLi175publicFend p5inte electriity in kilowtt hours per capita;
generally hosed an prodictios data, without allowance for losses in
Health and Nutrition                                                                      grids b-ut allowing for imports and exptort of electricity.
Population per otlsician - population divided by number of practicing                   Newsprint (hg/yr per ow) - Per capita anwul consomption in kilogram
physiuisan  qualified from a medical school at university level,                        estimated from dossstic prod'rtiost plus net lompwts of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 p.geS
ECNOIC DEIP1TDATA
(AmounEt-sNin MMilons ~ofU     dollars)
Actual                         Projected195                   190-      17   -   195-       92      173      94
1972      1973      17          195      16       190        1975    19703     1975      19750
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                  195       17       190       17       193       17        190        92     173       94
3-Year Average at 1967- 1-969 Prices & Exchange Rates          Average AnnuaLl Growth Rates         As Percent of' GDY
Gross Domestic Product              2216     2258      2342        2431      2523    3084        2.3      3.6       3.4       5.1    102.2     96.5     95.4
Gains from Terms of~ Trade (+)        18        49      121         137       152      137                                           - 2.2      3.5      4.6
Gross Domestic Income               2234     2307      2463        2568      2675     3221     -4.4       2.5       5.1       4.6    1 00.0   100.0    100.0o
Import (cine. NFS)                   340      378       480         546       548     662       -3.2     -9.0      26.5      4.2      11.3     14.4     22.6
Exports   11(import capacity)       -373     -418      -487        -512      -533    -606        6.2     -3.0       9.7       3.2    -15.0    -j.8-j   -ILLZ.2
Resource Gap                        - 33     - 40      -   7         34        15       56                                           - 3.7    - 4.2      2.4
ConSUmPtion Expenditures            1978     2044      2194        2315      2397    2822        3.8      1.0       7.1       3.8     89.0     86.9     89.9
Investment    "(incl. stocks)        222      223       263         287       293     455       4.45      2.4      14.6     11.5       7.3      8.9     17.5
Domestic Savings                     259       262      269         253       278      400       8.7     11.5      -9.0      10.5     11.0     13.1     10.1
National Savings                     247       247      253         238       268      393      11.2     16.1     -10.5      11.6      10.4    12.6      9.2
MERCHANDIISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                       67        91      170         157       170      310                                              26       22       21
Intermediate goods (WS=L.fuels)     70      141       257         248       278     413                                               27       33       32
F'uels and related materials        35        41      136         130       143      202                                               14      10       17
of which:   Petroleum            (35)      (41)    (136)       (130)     (143)    (202)
Consumption goods                   85       150      244        -Z          Q2_Z   _                                                ..Z2     ...1    ....0
Total Merch . Imports Ccii')      2757       423      80           6         9       18100                                                     100     100
Exports
Primary Products (mml. fuels)      376      502       626         750       770     1220                                              95       96       96
Fuels and related materials          4         4        9           9        10       15                                                1       1        1
of which:   Petroleum             (4)       (4)      (9)         (9)      (10)     (15)
Manufactured goodB                  18        19       20          26        28       60                                                4      * 
Total March. Exports (fob)         450     5384       655         78308             19
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1967-69 -100
Export Price Index                 132      174       238         252       243     313
Import Price Index                152       159       185         197       209     279
Terms of Trade Index                87      109       129         128       116     112
Exports Volume Index
VALUJE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates               Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       966       971      1026        1036      1078    1290        3.5      3.2      3. 2      4.5        48       46      47
Industr-y and Mining              329       390       412         416      441      579        5.9     4.5       3.3       6.8        16       19      19
Service                           725      '739       763         791     -827     1002       -0.8      3.0      3-.5      4.8        36       35      34
Total                            2020      2100      2201       2i243     235      27          2.      36        33        51        10       10      10
PUBLIC_FINANCE                                                                                                                           As_Percent_of'_GOP
(LCeta FINA   rnCent)1974/75 1975/76                                                           1968/69- 1971/72- 1974/75-
Cerrntra   Goernenpt)             1970/71  1971/72   1972/73     1973/74   (EIt.) (Budget) 1971/72     1974/75   1975/76
Current Receipts         ~~~421    366       339         531       696      756      14.1     24.0       8.3                 15       12       15
Current Expendituxres             292       334       371        519       686      760       10.0    27.0      10.7                  1         5      1
Bidlgetary Savings                12         32 -"3'    2        - 2       -12      -4
Other Puxblic Sector1                                                                                                                           1      -
Pablc Setor  nvesment     103      131       121         156       229     292       35.0     20.5     27.5                   4        3        3
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual        Prelim.    Est.    Proj.        DETAIL ON                                At end 19     P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)              19 73    1974       19        19      19-          PUBLIC SECTOR                       First Plan      %of Total
Education                                24.6     23.7                                      INVESTMEN   PROGRAM                  (19    /    -19     /
Other Social Services                    21.0     20.3                                      Social Sectors
Agriculture                               6.5      5.2                                      Agriculture
Other Economic Services                   3.7      4. 1                                     Industry and Mining
Administration and Defense               30.8     30.1                                      Power
Orther                                   13.4     16.6                                      Transport and communications
Total Current Expenditures              10.0     10.Ote
______________________________________________________________         Total Expenditures
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-      1965-     1970-   1975-        FINANCING
(Calculated f'rom 3-year averaged data)             1965       1970      1975    1980
Average ICON                                                                      2.4             Public Sector Savings
Import Elasticity                                                                 0.79           Program aid counterpart
Margi.nal DDmestic Savings Rate                                                   0.22           Foreign Project Aid
Marginal National Savinga Rate                                                    0.24           Total Financing
I.ABR FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (l6e7r-69     Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKERN                 In Millions         % of Total           1960 -69          In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Aeae            1960 - 69
90    1.969    1960      196_9     Growth Rate          1960       1969        1960      1969       Growth Rate
Agriculture                      1.55        1.85      60         58          2.0              476        474          80         81          0.0
Industry                         0.38       0.64       15         20          6.0              558        467          94         80         -2.0
Serv-ice                         0.62       0.76       25         22          1.4              923        977         155        167          0.6
Total                            2.56       3.18      100        100          24               595        58510                  100         -0.2
not applicable         -nil or negligible
not available         --less than half the
smal.lest unit shovn
1/Converted to US$ at rate of Cedi 1.00 - US$0.866



INA IN N I  N W ..N*_*  NN
t  g  W   I  N  I  H   <  I   g  N  3   I  II   .   .   .  
t ~   ~      gsSaH 
>:P<Xtz¢PIs~~ s       8l s cp R ag
S ^°i8C @  s d tS R  llec~~~~~~~~~I



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1976)
Loan or                                                US$ million:  Amount (less cancel-
Credit                                                 lation, termination & refundings)
Number      Year    Borrower         Purpose           Bank         IDA     Undisbursed
Two loans and three credits fully disbursed            53.0        18.4          -
160-GH      1969    Republic of     Water Supply                    3.5          .01/
Ghana           & Sewerage
163-GH      1969    Republic of     Fisheries                       1.3        0.7
Ghana
205-GH      1970    Republic of      Cocoa                          8.5         3.6
Ghana           Rehabilitation
354-GH      1972    Republic of      Sugar Rehabilit-              15.6        6.0
Ghana           ation
438-GH      1973    Republic of      First Highway                 13.0        9.8
Ghana
499-GH      1974    Republic of      Second Water                  10.4        6.3
Ghana           Supply
500-GH      1974    Republic of      Livestock                      2.0         2.0
Ghana           Development
531-GH      1975    Republic of      Oil Palm                      13.6        13.62/
Ghana
594-GH      1975    Republic of      Second Highway                10.0        10.0
Ghana
1122-GH     1975    Posts &         Telecommunica-
Telecommuni-    tions
cations
Corporation                        23.0          -         22.8
1180-GH     1975    Republic of     National Invest-   10-0                    10.0
Ghana           ment Bank
1181-GH     1975    Republic of     Ashanti Cocoa      14.0                     14.0
Ghana
1182-GH     1975    Republic of     Second Highway     18.0                     18.0
Ghana
Total of                                  118.0        96.3       116.8
which has been repaid                      14.4         0.9
Total now outstanding                     103.6        95.4
Amount sold                    0.4
Of which has been repaid       0.2          0.2
103.4        95.4
Total now held by Bank & IDA3/
Total undisbursed                          64.8        52.0       116.6
1/ Undisbursed balance US$1858.33
2/ Not yet effective
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
B.        PROJECTS IN EXECUTION!!
Cr. No. 163 - Fisheries Project; US$1.3 million
Credit of September 25, 1969
Effective Date: January 21, 1970
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
1.        This project originally provided for:   (a) the construction
of forty purse seiners; (b) credits to fishermen for purchasing such
vessels; (c) fishing harbor improvement and expansion studies, and
(d) the improvement of the Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation's
Boatyard Division. Following protracted problems over design and
price, the number of boats was reduced from the original 40 to 10,
the procurement of equipment is now concluded, and delivery of the
boats has been completed. Delays have also been encountered in the
execution of the harbor studies. The original Closing Date of December
31, 1972, which was extended successively to December 31, 1973, to June 30,
1975 to December 31, 1975 and to March 31, 1976 has been further extended
to September 30, 1976 to allow for the procurement of spare parts and
boatyard equipment.
Cr. No. 205 - Cocoa Rehabilitation Project; US$8.5 million
Credit of June 26, 1970; Effective Date: March 12, 1971
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
2.        The project, principally involving the rehabilitation of 51,000
acres and replanting of 36,000 acres of cocoa is behind schedule mainly
because of drought damage in 1973, poor farmer response, limited availability
of labor, and past indecision on the part of the Government concerning spray-
ing cocoa against pests,in particular capsids. The drought caused a high
mortality rate among young planted seedlings, creating a large demand for
replacement seed which could not be satisfied since production of seedlings
was hampered at the same time. The relatively low producer price for
cocoa has not encouraged farmers to participate in the project nor to
pay attractive wages to hired labor. Consequently little hired labor
has been forthcoming. The government spraying program caused a delay
of two years in the project's rehabilitation program and the closing
date has been extended to December 31, 1977.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 354 - Sugar Rehabilitation Project; US$15.6 million
Credit of January 29, 1973; Effective Date:
May 31, 1973: Closing Date: March 31, 1979
3.        Although 1974-75 sugar production (11,400 tons) was lower than
appraisal estimates, rehabilitation of factories progressed steadily
despite procurement difficulties.    Estimated sugar  production in
1975-76 is about 15,000 tons. Appraisal production estimates have been
revised to take account of implementation delays and it is now expected that
full development sugar output of 42,000 tons will be realized in 1980, two
years behind schedule. The GHASEL financial position is improving but could
be adversely affected by a proposed increase in the smallholder cane price.
Cr. No. 438 - First Highway Project; US$13 million
Credit of November 21, 1973; Effective Date:
January 22, 1974; Closing Date December 31, 1977
4.        The project provides for the rehabilitation of 138 miles of major
roads, preparation of a road maintenance program and feasibility studies
to determine future road work requirements and priorities. Progress has
been slow on the major item, road rehabilitation, but recent actions by the
Government and its executing agency, the Ghana Highway Authority (CHA),
should result in considerable improvement in the overall progress of the
work. SerLous cost overruns have been experienced which resulted in the
amount of road rehabilitation being reduced from the original project
provision of 345 miles to the present 138 miles; however, the Government
has agreed to cover all additional requirements. Other project items have
been substantially completed.
Cr. No. 499 - Second Water Supply Project; US$10.4 million
Credit of July 26, 1974; Effective Date:
January 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
5.        This project is a follow-up on the first Water Supply project
financed under Credit 160-GH and consists of the construction of an earth
dam at Weija; extension of the distribution system in the Accra/Tema area;
extension of rural water supplies near Accra; and technical assistance and
training. The delay in Credit Effectiveness was due mainly to the delayed
conclusion of a loan agreement between the Government and CIDA which is co-
financing the project. (The other co-financier is the African Development
Bank). However, construction of the Weija dam is well under way.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 500  -  Livestock Development Project; US$2.0 million
Credit of July 26, 1974; Effective Date:
May 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
6.        Project management has been improved remarkably following the
appointment of an interim Project Manager; however, serious problems
remain to be resolved, including the appointment of a permanent Managing
Director, the approval of new ranch development plans and the best use of
existing finance under the Project. Because of unanticipated difficulties
in acquiring necessary land, and cost overruns resulting from higher cattle
prices due mainly to the Sahalian drought, the project will have to be
revised. Alternate proposals now being discussed with Government include:
(i) development of two commercial ranches for 4,600 head of cattle, (ii)
credit for 19 private livestock producers, (iii) the preparation of a
follow-up project, and training for ranch managers. Project costs would be
about US$3.6 million equivalent, with foreign exchange costs of US$2.3
million. Government has agreed to provide any additional foreign exhange,
above and beyond that available in the Credit, to help complete the project.
The market prospects for beef are very good and permit the Project to be
commercially viable on a substantially smaller scale than at appraisal.
Cr. No. 531 - Oil Palm Project; US$13.6 million
Credit of March 5, 1975; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
7.        The project consists of the following main components: establish-
ment of a 100,000-acre nucleus plantation; provision of technical services
and credit facilities for the development of 3,000 of outgrower plantings
construction of a 10-ton/hr palm oil mill; training of personnel; construc
tion of 10 miles of road and provision of technical assistance to the
Agricultural Development Bank. Credit effectiveness has been delayed
pending finalization of a management contract between Government and a con-
sulting firm .
1.n. No. 1.122 - Telecommunications Project; US$23 million
Loan of June 10, 1975; Effective Date:
January 23, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1989
8.        Project components include the rehabilitation and expansion of
telephone exchange equipment, improvement and expansion of long distance
telephone facilities and expansion of telex services. Engineering con-
sultants have been appointed.
Ln. No. 1130 - National Investment Bank Project; US$10,million
Loan of December 23, 1975; Effective Date:
March 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
9.        The project provides for a US$10 million loan to the National
Investment Bank to help finance industrial, tourism and agro-industrial
development projects and to support small and medium scale private enter-
prises.



ANIJEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 1181 - Ashanti Region Cocoa Project; US$14 million
Loan of December 23, 1975; Effective Date:
February 23, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
10.       Project consists of replanting and maintaining during the three
year project period 30,000 acres of hybrid cocoa in the Ashanti region.
Credit and training will be provided to farmers and other project components
are the provision of feeder road equipment, consultancy services for designing
a survey of the cocoa sector and evaluating seed garden production. Field
progress is on schedule though some difficulties have been experienced in
finding active farmers and hired labour. At the same time Government is
taking steps to put the industry on a sounder footing.
Cr. No. 594  -  Second Highway Project; US$10 million Credit
US$18 million Loan of December 23, 1975;
Ln. No. 1132 - Effective Date: March 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
11.      'Che Loan/Credit became effective March 30, 1976, postponed from
February 23, 1976, due to delay in Government's submission of Legal Opinion
and Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The project is in support of the first 4-
year phase of an 8-year road maintenance program plus rehabilitation of a
short sect-ion of trunk road. The main elements are the procurement of
road maintenance equipment and spare parts; assistance to the Ghana Highway
Authority (CHA) in the management and planning of the maintenance program;
an onlending operation through the Ghana Bank of Housing and Construction
(BHC) to provide domestic contractors with necessary foreign exchange to
enable them to bid on Ghana Highway Authority maintenance projects; and
funds for the rehabilitation of the Accra-Nsawam trunk road section with
contractors to be selected through international competitive bidding. Tech-
nical assistance to BHC is being financed through the UNDP and for GHA's
Planning Division through the UK's Ministry of Overseas Development.
Bids for substantial amounts of equipment have been received and evaluated
and orders are expected to be placed shortly. Contractors for the Accra-
Nsawam road are being prequalified. Procedures for the Bank of Housing and
Construction onlending operation, in cooperation with the Ghana Highway
Authority, have been agreed in principle.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5 pages
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Ghana
Amount:                      "Third Window" loan US$21.0 million
Terms:                      Payable over 25 years, including 7 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 4.85 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:            For Agricultural Development Bank (US$2.2 million)
payable over 25 years, including 7 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 8.85 percent per annum 1/.
For Farmers Services Company (US$3.8 million) pay-
able over 25 years, including 7 years of grace, at
an interest rate of 8,85 percent per annum.l,'.
For Cotton Development Board (US$0.4 million) pay-
able over 15 years, including 5 years of gra     at
an interest rate of 8,85  percent per annum -
Seasonal farmer loans to farmers at an interest
rate of 12 percent per annum.
Medium-term loans to farmers up to 5 years at
an interest rate of 12 percent per annum.
Long-term loans to ranchers up to 13 years, including
5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 12 percent
per annum.
Project Description:        The project would cover the Upper Region of Ghana,
and would affect in one way or other the Region's
125,000farmers; direct beneficiaries could vary
between 60 to 90 percent of total farmers. The
project would cover an investment period 1976/77
to 1980/1981 and would include:
Farm Development Services, Establishment of 90
service centres to support improved extension,
supply distribution, credit and training services
1/ Of the US$21 million Bank loan, US$5.6 million has been reserved
for unallocated costs, part of which will be allocated to ADB,
FSC and CDB as and when required.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5 pages
to farmers, provision of fertilizers, insecticides,
seed dressings, improved seeds, spare parts, farm
equipment and oxen for cash or credit terms, that
would improve the production of 108,000 ha of
annual crops including millet, sorghum, maize,
groundnuts, yams, cotton, rice, cowpeas and tomatoes;
development of research and seed multiplication
centres; and improved on farm grain storage.
Ranch and Livestock Development. Establishment of 10
cattle ranches (2000 ha each); improvement of
animal health and husbandry techniques.
Training and Communications. Establishment of an
adult functional literacy scheme, improvement and
expansion of staff training to include among
other subjects simple human nutrition; and
expansion of Ghana Broadcasting Corporation's
broadcasting network throughout the Upper Region.
Physical Infrastructure, Construction and improving
120 new small dams and 100 existing dams, protect-
ing about 160,000 ha of farm land with soil con-
servation measures; constructing 700 villages
wells; constructing stores, offices and houses;
providing vehicles and equipment for support
services; and constructing two cotton ginneries.
Institutional Support, Establishment of a Project
Management Unit to coordinate the various Ministry
of Agriculture services in the Region and to
administer and implement the project; establish-
ment of the Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. to
distribute farm inputs on cash or credit terms;
and provision of technical assistance to the Project
Management Unit, Farmers Services Company, Agricultural
Development Bank, Ghana Broadcasting Corporation and
the Upper Regional Development Corporation to success-
fully implement the project.
Development Planning, Establishment under the Project
Management Unit of an Onchocerciasis Survey Unit to
prepare and plan new investment projects on those
onchocerciasis aEfected areas of the Upper and
Northern Regions that are currently being cleared
of similium fly.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5 pages
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign     Total
----   US$ million-------
Investments
Incremental farm inDUtS                       h 1         7.6      11.7
Farmers Services Company                       2.0        1.6       3.6
Land and water development                     3.1        5.2       8.3
Broadcasting network                           1.1        1.4       2.5
Cotton ginneries                               0.6        1.5       2.1
Government Support Services to Farmers
Project administration overheads               2.4        1.4       3.8
Incremental technical services                 0.8        4.1       4.9
Communications and training                    0.5        0.5       1.0
Planning, evaluation and minitorirng           0.6        0.4       1.0
Consultant support to associated agencies      0.1        0.4       0.5
Onchocerciasis Survey Unit                       0.1        0,5        0,6
Base line costs                               15.4       24,6      40,0
Physical contingencies                         0.7        1,2       1.9
Price contingencies                            6.0        6.7      12.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              22.1       32.5      54.6
Financing Plan
IBRD                                           -         21.0      21.0
UK                                             -         11.0      11.o
Government                                    13.2        0.5      13.7
Local Financial Institutions & Farmers         8.9        -         8.9
Total                                         22.1       32.5      54.6



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5 pages
Estimated Disbursements:       ---------------- US million ------------------
Year         Annual          Accumulated
FY77          3.0                 3.0
FY78          7.0                10.0
FY79          3.0                13.0
FY80          4.0                17.0
FY81          4.0                21.0
Procurement Arrangements:      Procurement of vehicles, animal drugs, sawgins,
equipment, transistor radios, aerial photo-
graphy, fertilizers, pesticides, tools, live-
stock and other farm and ranch equipment under
contracts with a value of more than $50,000
would be through international competitive
bidding (ICB). Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed 15 percent preference. Such
procurement is estimated to have a value of
015.2 million (US$13.2 million). Contracts for
construction of houses, and the purchase of
construction materials and furnishings valued at
010.5 million (US$9.1 million) would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank; foreign firms will be
eligible to participate, but it may not be
attractive to them due to the dispersed location
of the work and small size of individual contracts.
The construction of small dams and soil con-
servation works would be carried out by the
Project Management Unit on force account, but
where possible petty contractors would be employed.
An estimated t12.0 million (US$10.4 million)
would be for incremental labor, staff salaries,
allowances, hiring of consultants, vehicle main-
tenance and operation, overseas training and
general administrative costs that would be un-
suitable for competitive bidding- Retroactive
financing of up to USS750,000 would be provided
for employment of key staff and for construction
of 20 houses and offices.
Technical Assistance:           About 17 man-years of management and technical
specialists to assist the Government in project
implementation would be financed under the loan.
The personnel cost of this technical assistance
is valued at US$43,000 per man-year.



ANNEX III
Fage 5 of 5 pages
Rate of Return:                  The overall economic rate of return is
estimated at 40 percent; for the ranching
component the return is 31 percent at a
cost of 01.0 million; for the crop produc-
tion component 33 percent at a cost of
044.8 million; for animal health 95 percent
at a cost of 02.7 million.
Appraisal Report:                Report No. 1061-GH of June 3, 1976.
Map:                             Map No. IBRD 11821



I BR D  11821
lo n | '11 1 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i2                |o CTO7BER   1975
I-                                                                                                                  Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  c .S  11
L UWP P E R V L TA     p   E    R                   L    T    A
W<_   R/ A //              \      EJ   \   1                       t I            PPER REGION AGRICULTURAL)
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
LO                                                                    ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~PROGRAM  AREA-
W A                                                       IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  OSIBLE SITES FOR SERVICE CENTERS-  -- )
K7_ WA,         S             7EIs . dKonkolPROPOSED RANCRING AREA FOR t0 ANCrES
, PROPOSES NROAECASTING ASD REPEATER STATON  L  
IV"                                                                    C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~  ~~PROPOSES SITE FOR COTTON -RNERY  00 
- '   NTMENSIVE CULTIVATION
T LAOS TONE IMPROVES PIROM CO'LITTED 
WOVCRN. ETEEARN
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 NO KL0ME0Ef                0                  VISOR CTBNOUNDAVIES   6
\                                         O-T EA DAIROMETERS D  70  30TENTNNAC NO UH A N EA E
*7                                          F-P:C 7  NT0 ER          V          AC A
MILES  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ VFSV
0                                                        CFA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
2"  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~               1~~~~~~                                              54~MIE



