Report No. 1061a-GH                                                          FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Upper Region Agricultural
Development Project Ghana
June 3, 1976
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1    =    0 1.1538
0 1    =  us$ o.8667
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ton   =    2240   lb   =  1.016 metric ton
1 acre  =    0.405 hectares
1 mile  =    1.609 kilometers
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            Agricultural Development Bank
APMU           Agriculture Projects Management Unit (of Western
Africa Region IBRD)
CaDB           Cattle Development Board
CDB            Cotton Development Board
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CRI            Crop Research Institute
CSC            Christian Services Committee
FDC            Food Distribution Corporation
FSC            Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
GBC            Ghana Broadcasting Corporation
GDB            Grain Development Board
GGADP          Ghanaian -German Agricultural Development Project
GHA            Ghana Highway Authority
GIHOC          Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation
GWC            Grain Warehousing Company
ISSER          Institute of Statistical, Social and Economic Research
MA             Ministry of Agriculture
MTI            Ministry of Trade and Industry
NRC            National Redemption Council
NIB            National Investment Bank
PCC            Project Coordinating Committee
PEMD           Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department
PTC            Project Technical Committee
RDU            Research and Demonstration Unit
RMU            Rice Milling Unit
RMWA           Resident Mission in Western Africa (IBRD - Abidjan)
SWCA           Soil and Water Conservation Working Account
SWCD           Ministry of Social Welfare and Community Development
URADPEC        Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
Executive Committee
URPMU          Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
Management Unit
URDECO         Upper Regional Development Corporation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






GHANA
APPRAISAL OF UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................    i-iv
I.    INTRODUCTIONera  .... .  ................ *..... .......... ..                      2
II.   BACKGROUND   o ...o.....o....e*.....   ..o..                                           2
A.    General  ....0.   .o...o.o.....*..                                      2
B.    Agricultural  Sector              ........... ......... ,.              2
-   General                     0.-................ ....               2
-  The Upper Region  ............. ........                            5
C.    Education and Communications  ....................                      5
D.    Institutions  * * *    ....... . .   ....... .    ........... .         6
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ......... . .  ................ .......... ...........              7
A.    General  .... ............. ........ .................................  7
B.    Agriculture  ................................... 0 .....0..........     8
C.    Farm Services  ... .... . . . .  .................. ....... .0. ....    8
IV.    THE PROJECT  ................... ...oo .........                                      9
A.    Description  ....*  ... .                  ....... ..........*          9
-  Farm Development  ..... .. .. .. ....  .... . ..... O..              9
-   Physical  Infrastructure  ...  -..............                    10
-   Institutional  Support  . .....         ...    ...............    10
-  Development Planning  ....              .................. ...      11
B.    Detailed  Features  ....o... .....    o              ..........        11
- Farm Development .. .....                                 .......  11
-   Physical  Infrastructure  ...  .....0 ............                 13
-   Institutional.Support  ..           ...o ....o.........            14
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....o                     ...........     16
A.    Project Costs  ... ................................ O....... 00 ... .0.....  16
B.    Proposed  Financing  .... * ..... . . . . . . .  ..........-..o.  .    17
C.    Procurement  ,,  .... .*.......... 0-0-.......***                      21
D.    Disbursement  ... . ............ . . . .  ............... .    -...    22
E.    Budgetary Control,  Funding Procedures,
Accounts and Audits  ..o                      ......                  23



-2-
Page No.
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................................   23
A.   Institutions ..........                              23
B.   Staffing .................      .  ..................    26
C.  Staff Training ......................                , 27
D.   Farm Inputs:  Procurement and Distribution and
Credit Procedures .............., **        ...      27
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, FARMERS BENEFITS AND
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS TO GOVERNMENT ........ o ...............   29
A.   Production   .....     * .  .     * .     * .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ............ .... .... .   ... * ....     29
B.   Markets and Prices ............................    30
C.   Farmers Benefits .......... ...*   .......... ... .*   31
D.   Financial Implications  ............. . ...........    32
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........ .............    33
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS .... ...............**..     ..........*...**    35
ANNEXES
1.  Marketing, Markets and Prices
2.  Farm and Crop Development
3.  Organization and Staffing
4.  The Project Area
5.   Livestock Development
6.   Commercial Services
7.  Seed Multiplication and Research
8.   Communications and Training
9.  Land Development
10.   Evaluation, Monitoring and Planning, Including Planning of
Onchocerciasis-free Areas
11.  Project Costs, Financial Tables and Economic Analysis
MAPS
IBRD  11821  Project Area
IBRD 11822 Soil Classification
IBRD 11820 Language Distribution



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Ghana has requested Bank assistance in financing
an agricultural development project in the Upper Region of Ghana. The Proj-
ect was prepared by the staff of the Resident Mission for Western Africa
with Ghanaian staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and other relevant agen-
cies. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Ghana during November 1975.
ii.       Ghana has recently been making strenuous efforts to diversify its
agricultural sector. Rice production has increased significantly, and em-
phasis is now being placed on expansion of cotton, oilseeds and livestock
products which are currently imported.
iii.      Agricultural production in the Upper Region is a complex matrix
of annual crops and livestock competing for a limited area of land. This
is further compounded by the loss of good arable land to onchocerciasis
(riverblindness), trypanomiasis (sleeping sickness) and rapidly increasing
soil erosion. The Project would complement the ongoing onchocerciasis erad-
ication scheme and would assist in arresting soil losses from erosion. Be-
cause of the complexities in production systems and their interdependency,
proposals were put to Government by a Bank identification mission in October
1974 that the Region be developed as a whole, with initial emphasis being
placed on sustainable agricultural production and improved farm incomes.
The proposed Project sets out to achieve these objectives.
iv.       The Project covers some 27,300 km2 supporting 10% of Ghana's popu-
lation including 125,000 farm families and 40% of Ghana's livestock popula-
tion. The Region is susceptible to occasional drought, which although never
disastrous, can considerably reduce yields. The Project would benefit most
of the farmers in the Region.
v.         The Project would provide physical infrastructure, support ser-
vices, radio broadcasting and farm inputs. The Project's design would nei-
ther unduly disrupt existing Government services, nor leave a void after the
development period (1976/77 - 1980/81). The Project would develop around 90
service centers that would provide improved extension and management services
to the Region's farmers; it would, through farm loans and improved supply of
inputs, improve production of 108,000 ha of land (30% of total arable) cur-
rently under cultivation including traditional mixed millet and sorghum,
dwarf sorghum, maize, groundnuts, yams, cotton, rice, cowpeas and tomatoes;
it would provide improved onfarm grain storage, better animal health and
husbandry services, and would establish ten 2,000 ha cattle ranches; it
would develop seven applied research and demonstration units and ensure
proper seed multiplication; it would develop a pilot adult functional lit-
eracy scheme (10% of the present population is literate); it would expand
Ghana Broadcasting Corporation's facilities in the Upper Region; it would



- ii -
improve human nutrition and would train development staff inside and outside
Ghana. It would construct 120 new dams and rehabilitate 100 existing dams to
provide water for livestock, dry season (irrigation) farming and for general
water conservation purposes; through new soil conservation measures it would
protect a minimum of 160,000 ha of land, including the catchment areas of
dams; it would assist farmers in constructing 700 village wells; and stores,
offices and houses for Project staff would be constructed at the service
centers. It would provide vehicles for Project staff and would construct
two 9,000 ton/annum cotton ginneries. Plans for the future development of
onchocerciasis-eradicated areas in the Upper and Northern Regions would be
prepared. Institutionally, the Project would establish the Farmers Services
Company (UR) Ltd. to provide farm inputs; strengthen the Regional Branch of
the Agricultural Development Bank and the Regional Development Corporation;
and strengthen and train the Regional staff of the Ministry of Agriculture.
vi.        The Project would be controlled by the Upper Region Agricultural
Development Project Executive Committee (URADPEC), established under a
special Government Order, and would be managed by the Upper Region Agri-
cultural Development Project Management Unit (URPMU), established at
BolgatanRa.
vii.      The proposed IBRD loan of US$21.0 million to the Government of
Ghana would be on Third Window terms at 4.85% over 25 years including a
seven-year grace period for principal, during which interest and commitment
charges would be paid. The loan would cover 38% of total Project costs,
estimated at US$54.6 million, and 65% of the foreign exchange costs estimated
at US$32.5 million. Of the US$21.0 million, US$3.8 million would be onlent
to the Farmers Services Company (FSC) at 8.85% for 25 years, with seven
years grace for principal, for the purchase of incremental seasonal inputs;
US$2.2 million would be onlent, at 8.85% for 25 years with seven years grace
for principal, to the Agricultural Development Bank for medium and long term
loans; US$0.4 million would be onlent, at 8.85% for 15 years with five
years grace for principal, to the Cotton Development Board for the purchase of
saw gins; US$0.5 million would be equity for the Farmers Services Company to
assist in its establishment; US$0.5 million would be granted to Ghana Broad-
casting Corporation (GBC), for the establishment of a broadcasting network;
US$8.0 million would be for the establishment and operations of URPMU; and
US$5.6 million would be for contingencies. Seasonal, medium or long term
loans to farmers would bear interest plus service charges if any of not less
thaan 12% per annum.
viii.     The United Kingdom would, under parallel financing arrangements,
finance 20% of total costs equivalent to 34% of foreign exchange costs--
US$11.0 million--comprising a loan of E Stg 4.0 million 1/ and a grant for
technical assistance of approximately f Stg 1.0 million. Local sources would
finance the remaining 42% of Project costs including the Ghanaian Government,
US$13.7 million (25%) and the banking institutions, US$8.9 million (17%).
1/   f Stg 4.0 million would finance preselected and competitive (see para ix)
UK manufactured goods which at the time of cost estimation, June 1975,
were valued, including contingencies, at US$8.7 million, when E Stg 1 was
equivalent to US$2.2.



- iii -
ix.       Procurement of radio telephones, broadcasting equipment, cotton
ginnery equipment and buildings, heavy plant and equipment for land develop-
ment, four-wheel drive vehicles, trucks, spare parts, pumps and pipes for
wells, cotton sprayers, insecticides and fungicides, totaling ¢l0.0 million
(US$8.7 million) would be under UK procurement procedures; the itemized goods
are considered competitive with international prices. Procurement of other
vehicles, animal drugs, equipment, transistor radios, aerial photography,
fertilizers, pesticides, tools, livestock and other farm and ranch equip-
ment with a value of more than US$50,000 would be through international
competitive bidding (ICB), and would have an estimated value of US$13.2
million. A maximum limit of US$1.0 million would be set for those items
purchased through contracts of less than US$50,000. Contracts for con-
struction of buildings, houses and the purchase of construction materials
and furnishings valued at US$9.1 million would not be suitable for ICB due to
their dispersed location and small size of individual contracts and orders;
for these items, contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory
to the Bank; in these cases foreign firms and suppliers would not be precluded
from bidding. Construction of dams, soil conservation works, wells and grain
stores would be undertaken on force account and are likely to involve only
petty contractors used on an ad hoc basis. A large part of Project costs,
US$10.4 million, would be for labor, staff salaries, allowances, hiring of
consultants, vehicle maintenance and operation, overseas training and general
administrative costs, and would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. The
remaining US$14.6 million would be for physical and price contingencies.
Internationally recruited staff (at an average cost of US$43,000 per manyear
for salary and emoluments) and consultants would be employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
x.        Proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed to cover (a) 100%
of the CIF costs of directly imported vehicles (excluding four-wheel drive
vehicles, land development plant and equipment, and trucks), office and
small equipment, sawgins and associated equipment, animal drugs, and aerial
photography, or 86% if procured locally - US$2.9 million; (b) 100% of the
CIF cost of directly imported fertilizers, oxdrawn equipment, batteries,
transistor radios, livestock and other farm and ranch inputs, or 65% if
procured locally - US$6.0 million; (c) 100% of the cost of internationally
recruited staff and overseas training for Ghanaians - US$0.8 million; (d) 50%
of the cost of buildings and construction materials - US$3.6 million; (e) 50%
of vehicle and plant operating costs - US$2.1 million; and (f) an unallocated
amount of US$5.6 million. Disbursements would be made against import docu-
ments, contracts and certified records of expenditure.
xi.       The majority of the Region's 125,000 farm families would benefit
from the Project, since the goods and services provided are not limited to
any one group of farmers. The annual incremental production at full devel-
opment in 1981 would be in the order of 4,000 tons of millet, 12,000 tons of
sorghum, 5,000 tons of maize, 30,000 tons of rice, 11,000 tons of groundnuts,



- iv -
15,000 tons of yams, 7,000 tons of cowpeas, 18,000 tons of seed cotton, 6,000
tons of tomatoes, and 3,000 tons of meat. Intangible benefits include im-
proved water and soil conservation, village water supplies, improved commu-
nications media and trading and social services. The net incremental for-
eign exchange earnings would be equivalent to US$23 million per annum at
full development in 1981. The internal economic rate of return is estimated
at 40%; for the ranching component the return is 31% (financial return 19%),
while that for the crop production component is 33%. The return to the animal
health component is very high at 95%. The Project would increase the average
net income to farmers by ¢90 per annum for crops and ¢80 per annum from
livestock. Current measurable family net incomes are about ¢280 per annum;
thus if Project targets are achieved family incomes from improved crop produc-
tion could be increased by 32%, thus increasing per capita income from the
current 041 to 054 per annum, representing an income growth of about 6% per
annum. Further increases due to livestock could provide an additional 3%.
xii.     On the basis of the assurances obtained during negotiations and set
out in Chapter IX, the Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.0
million.



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises an application made to the Bank Group by
the Government of Ghana for assistance in financing an agricultural devel-
opment project in Ghana's Upper Region. The Project would benefit farm
families whose cash incomes are about 0280/annum (¢41 per capita).
There are an estimated 125,000 farm families in the Region, about one mil-
lion people in all, the majority of whom would receive indirect or direct
benefits through the Project.
1.02      The Project was identified in late 1974 by a Bank mission, and
was prepared by RMWA and Ghanaian staff in early 1975. A preappraisal mis-
sion 1/ visited Ghana in June 1975, followed by an appraisal mission 2/ in
November 1975.
1.03      The Project would affect 10% of Ghana's population, and would be
an initial step to better utilize the human and agricultural resources of
the Region. The Project's principal objectives are to increase and sustain
farm production and family incomes; and its design takes account of past
Bank experience both within and outside Ghana. The production/technological
packages to be introduced to farmers have evolved through Ghanaian and other
West African research and have been tried and tested in the Upper Region
or under similar conditions elsewhere. The Project would strengthen exist-
ing agricultural, animal husbandry and veterinary services already active
in the area, and would strengthen existing institutions, including the Upper
Regional Development Corporation (URDECO) and the Agricultural Development
Bank (ADB). In addition, it would establish a commercial farm input supply
system and a radio broadcasting network.
1.04      The Project is the first broadbased agricultural development project
to be financed by the Bank in Ghana. The Project follows a number of spe-
cialized agricultural loans and credits in Ghana, including the Eastern Region
Cocoa Project, Credit 205-GH; the Sugar Rehabilitation Project, Credit 354-GH;
the Livestock Project, Credit 500-GH; the Oil Palm Project, Credit 531-GH; and
the Ashanti Cocoa Project, Loan 1181-GH. The Eastern Region Cocoa and the
Sugar Rehabilitation Projects are proceeding satisfactorily; the Livestock,
Ashanti Cocoa and Oil Palm Projects have had start-up problems, but these are
being resolved and more rapid implementation is expected.
1/   The mission comprised Messrs. Grimshaw, Hachero, Meyn (Bank), and
Calkin, Lesslie and Reader (Consultants).
2/   The mission comprised Messrs. Grimshaw, Futagami (Bank), Labarre
(Consultant) and White (ODM).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ghana has an area of 235,000 km  (92,000 sq. miles) and a popu-
lation of about 9.5 million (in 1974), which is increasing at between 2.6%
and 3% per year. Two thirds of the population live in the humid southern
half of the country and about one third are urban dwellers. GDP was US$3.04
billion in 1973, and increased at the annual rate of about 3.1% between
1966 and 1973. Per capita GNP, which was about US$300 in 1973, is stagnating,
2.02      The economy is based on the export of a limited number of agricul-
tural and mineral products. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries employ 60%
of the population and contribute 40% of GDP. Nearly half of the balance is
provided by transport and services. Cocoa is the main export commodity,
generating 62% of export earnings.
2.03      Ghana's economic problems are dominated by a balance of payments
deficit and a continuing budgetary imbalance. General neglect of agricul-
ture during most of the 1960s resulted in rapidly growing food imports. The
industrial development strategy of that time broadened the industrial base
but generally had low domestic value-added content, limited employment poten-
tial, and depended heavily on imported inputs. The imbalance in external
payments resulted in a heavy accumulation of debt (both short and medium
term) and in recurring balance of payments crises. The economic and social
policy of the early 1960s involved Government in providing a wide range of
social services, in setting up a large number of state enterprises and in
allocating resources through an extensive system of physical and financial
controls. Since the mid-1960s, there has been a growing imbalance in public
finances due to rapid growth of budget current expenditures, including un-
economic operations of a large number of Government enterprises and a slow
growth in budget revenues.
B. Agricultural Sector
General
2.04      Performance in the agricultural sector has been unsatisfactory.  In
the early 1960s, Government intervened in production activities by investing
heavily in large capital-intensive state farms, but gave little help to the
private sector, mainly smallholders, which produces more than 90% of agricul-
tural production. The state farming strategy which was almost completely
abandoned has not been replaced by an effective program to increase smallholder
productivity. Consequently, agricultural production has generally failed to
keep pace with food demand, and Ghana imports many food and agricultural
commodities that it could produce and exports far less than the country's
agricultural potential would permit.



- 3 -
2.05      To stimulate rapid expansion in agricultural production and reduce
dependence on agricultural imports, Government has introduced a number of
farmer incentives. At the primary level, northern Ghanaian farmers in par-
ticular are provided with highly subsidized fertilizers, improved seed, and
mechanical equipment hire services, backed by an attractive guaranteed price
for paddy and a very high guaranteed price (equivalent to 30 US cents per
pound seed cotton) for cotton. Investment incentives are also provided
in the form of credit at subsidized interest from the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank, import tariff concessions on farm equipment, tax holidays, and
guarantees by the Bank of Ghana to commercial banks' lending for agriculture.
At the secondary level there is a multiplicity of boards, corporations and
agencies involved directly or indirectly in production, processing and mar-
keting; many of these overlap functionally because of the absence of a well-
planned and coordinated national agricultural development policy.
2.06      While the principal objectives'desc'ribed above, to increase produc-
tion and provide the farming community with higher incomes, are commendable,
their implementation is causing difficulties. First, by subsidizing both
inputs and production (with notable exception of cocoa), an increasingly
greater fiscal burden is being placed on Government, which already suffers
a serious imbalance in public finances (para 2.03). Second, the policies
generally have favored larger farmers. This is because while some programs
have been deliberately directed towards larger farmers (e.g., mechanical
rice growing in the Northern Region), the structure and management of most
programs are so weak that the aggressive larger farmer with his credit-
worthiness and ability to deal with official and commercial institutions is
able to secure the great bulk of the limited farm inputs available. Third,
the subsidy structure is so favorable that operations that would be economicaly
and financially nonviable at market prices can be sustained.
2.07      Implementing the Project within this environment will depend, among
other factors, on adequate management of the boards and other agencies
participating, and on changes in the present subsidy arrangements to enable
rational production decisions to be made and to provide proper incentives for
involving the commercial sector with distribution and sales of farm inputs.
2.08      Fertilizer would be the main input supplied under the Project.  Pre-
viously thesubsidy for fertilizer coveredabout 88% of the real farmgate value;
in 1974, for example, sulphate of ammonia was sold in the Upper Region at ¢40
per ton, compared to a real cost of about 0340 per ton, and the much higher
value compound fertilizer 15:15:15 sold at only 456 per ton. 1/ The relation-
ships between subsidies and farm incomes are shown in the model farm budgets
1/   These subsidies are even greater if the real value of the cedi is taken
into account, i.e., a shadow exchange rate of 01.5-02.5, compared to the
official rate, of ¢1.15 per US$.



- 4 -
at Annex 2.   These show that the full market value of fertilizer used could
be paid by farmers from increased production. However, changes in the fertil-
izer subsidy cannot be considered in isolation; the consequences of such
changes on the rate of adoption of fertilizer by smallholders must be con-
sidered. The latter is less a direct question of production efficiencies
than one of the smallholder's perception of the merit of the debt incurred
in fertilizer in comparison with anticipated future returns. The lower the
fertilizer price the greater the level of 'first time' adoption. Also, there
is the problem that the total removal of or substantial reduction in the sub-
sidy may bankrupt many large farmers and disrupt food supplies, particularly
rice. Government has very recently agreed on a policy that will allow for
the complete phasing out of fertilizer subsidies over the five-year period
1977-1981. The first step will be carried out in December 1976 when Govern-
ment will publicly set the 1977 farmgate price for fertilizer; this price
will be equivalent to an increase- of -about 150%- -over current prices, which
for the Upper Region would reflect a subsidy equivalent to 58%.
2.09      In commodity pricing Government has followed a pragmatic approach
that in some cases, while meeting an immediate need, would appear to create
problems for the future. Thus the current cotton price, which is undoubted-
ly encouraging production, could in the medium to long term create serious
overproduction and fiscal difficulties. The current price of ~0.35 per pound
for seed cotton is very high (85% higher than in neighboring Upper Volta).
Although inflation will gradually erode this price, it is doubtful whether
it is justified at the present time.
2.10      The livestock subsector is subject to retail price controls in the
interest of consumer protection. Retail prices for beef, mutton and goat meat
are fixed. Poultry and pig prices are free, as is the internal market for
live animals. Prices presently paid to foreign suppliers for live animals are
not competitive with those offered by other importers (Ivory Coast, Nigeria),
and deliveries of slaughterstock to Ghana virtually came to a halt in May
1975. Meanwhile, local slaughterstock prices have increased, and a parallel
market on which butchers sell meat at somewhat higher than official prices has
developed. Current meat pricing policies are not conducive to stimulating
production or to substituting for imports.   Local producers should receive
the benefit of free market prices for meat as an incentive for investing in
livestock.
2.11      There are a number of other subsidies complicating the agricultural
sector that make rationalization difficult and could result in unforeseen
consequences. Because of the complex relationship between produce prices and
production costs it is important for Government to determine medium and long
term polices on pricing and subsidies.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that by June 30, 1977, a paper setting out Government's agricul-
tural pricing and subsidy policy would be prepared and submitted to the Bank
for comment.



The Upper Region
2.12      Regional imbalance has occurred in the past with the north and west
benefitting least from the development effort. From 1971 until 1974 the
Upper Region's share of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget was 3%, although
it has 10% of the country's population. However, in 1975 the Region's share
increased to about 14% of the total due to large commitments for the Tono
Irrigation Scheme. Government's agricultural development policies for the
Region have generally favored the larger farms, both private and State, and
expensive irrigation schemes. Until recently, little has been done for the
small farmer; and, unfortunately, poor implementation of those projects that
have been initiated has resulted in high cost and, in many instances, nonpro-
ductive operations that have little or no impact on the majority of the
Region's population. Although quantitative data are not available, evidence
suggests that income growth among the majority of farmers is probably declining.
2.13      The Region is endowed with a hardworking community of small farmers
that has developed an ability to survive in a steadily declining environment
caused by increasing population, onchocerciasis and other health hazards, de-
clining soil fertility, worsening soil erosion, sporadic lack of water, and
the absence of proper infrastructure and services. Their ability to survive
is closely associated with a husbandry system of intricate mixed cropping
that is designed to give maximum insurance against vagaries of climate and
disease. The Project described in this report would exploit to the farmer's
benefit these traditional disciplines.
C. Education and Communications
2.14      Education and communication problems which are unique to the Upper
Region require special attention. The Region has the lowest literacy rate in
the country (about 10%). There is a multiplicity of different languages with
no generaly acceptable or understood lingua franca; neither radio programs
nor newspapers are available in languages that are widely understood.
2.15      The Project would not attempt to modify the formal education sys-
tem, but would embody a pilot adult literacy scheme through which partici-
pants would achieve a sufficient understanding of reading, writing and sim-
ple calculation. Earlier literacy schemes in the Region have failed and the
more recent concept of 'functional' literacy as an integral part of rural
development, oriented towards immediate practical application in agriculture,
is not fully understood, nor have its methods been tried in Ghana. However,
the Institute of Linguistics in Tamale has had considerable success with
a pilot literacy program in one of the languages of the Northern Region,
and a similar scheme would be conducted by the Project, to determine the
best and most economic solution for the Upper Region.



- 6 -
2.16      Because of poor communications media, a continuous two-way process
is required to guide and educate the population, including Project staff.
Radio could provide rapid and continuing contact in an area where so many
languages are spoken and so few people can read. The Project would rely
heavily on improved radio communication and broadcasting for its development
phase and, more importantly, to sustain long term development requirements.
D. Institutions
2.17      Ghana has many institutions which have been established to replace
or compete with private enteprise; most agricultural institutions operate
inefficiently. Some of the institutions that would be associated with the
Project are described below, and a chart at Annex 3, Schedule 3, indicates
their linkage.
2.18      The Ministry of Agriculture consists of the Departments of Crop
Extension, Animal Husbandry, Veterinary, Mechanization, Fisheries, Irriga-
tion, Training, Planning and Information. Until recently a Director of
Agriculture in Accra controlled all departments. At a regional level, an
Assistant Director was responsible to the Director for coordination of the
various services offered by the Ministry. Beginning fiscal year 1976 the
post of Director was abolished and now each department has its own head who
is responsible for its operation. There are no assistant directors, and the
Regional Commissioners, appointed by NRC, perform a coordinating role. In
the Upper Region coordination is good and the individual regional departments
work well together.
2.19      Upper Regional Development Corporation (URDECO) was established
as a corporate body under NRC Decree No. 140, dated December 29, 1972, and
started operation on May 1, 1973. Commissioned to enter into "any viable
commerial industry," URDECO is engaged in a variety of activities in the
Upper Region, including retailing essential food commodities, providing
transport and agricultural mechanized services, raising livestock and pro-
ducing food and cash crops. These varied activities have strained URDECO's
manpower and financial resources considerably. Under the Project, URDECO
would give up its directly productive agricultural enterprises and concentrate
on transportation and wholesaling. Its farm mechanization services would be
transferred to the Project's Farmers Services Company.
2.20      The Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) is the main source of
agricultural credit in Ghana. When the Sugar Rehabilitation Project was
approved in 1971 it was recognized that ADB's performance needed improve-
ment, particularly as its lending operations were characterized by sub-
stantial uncollected loars. Consultants were financed under the credit
to review and improve credit management and financial control. The con-
sultants completed their recommendations at the end of 1973 and implement-
ation began in 1974. In November 1974 the contract, to be financed under



the Oil Palm Project, was extended for one year to ensure effectle iL-
plementation of the new procedures. There appears to be little evidence
as yet of any improvement in loan recovery. As of December 31, 1974,
about 60% of its loans were past due. Debt recovery could be improved
if greater pressure were exerted on defaulters, and if loans were made only
to those farmers who received adequate extension and farm input services.
III. PROJECT AREA
A. General
2
3.01      The Project area (details at Annex 4) covers 27,300 km , about
11% of Ghana's total land area. It comprises the whole of the Upper Re-
gion which borders Upper Volta to the west and north, and Togo to the east
(see map). Bolgatanga, the Regional capital, is about 800 km from Accra.
3.02      Annual rainfall varies from 910 mm in the east to 1,050 mm in the
west, and is largely confined to a six-month period from April to September.
Distribution is suitable for annual crop production though a dry spell in
June or July can adversely affect crop yields.
3.03      Soils (see map) have developed mainly from granites and are shal-
low, coarse-textured and concretionary over much of the area; settlement is
heavily concentrated on the deeper, finer soils towards the eastern and west-
ern boundaries. Sheet erosion is serious and is aggravated by destroyed or
neglected soil conservation measures; much of the latter has occurred since
1962 when Government agricultural policy was concentrated on large scale
mechanized farming operations. Most of the fertile valleys are unsettled
due to their heavier soils and the presence of simulium flies, the vector
of riverblindness.
3.04      The area has an estimated population of 930,000, with some 125,000
farm families. Settlement is in the form of scattered compounds that com-
bine to form loosely knit villages. Nine separate languages are spoken,
though none serves as a lingua franca. It is customary for farmers to group
together for specific farming activities. The Project would exploit this
traditional grouping whereby extension services would encourage the forma-
tion of informal farmers associations through which extension and other
services would operate.
3.05      The area's road network is sufficient in quantity but deficient in
quality. Under the recently approved Bank Loan (1182-GH)/IDA Credit (594-GH)
for Ghana Highways II Project, at least 800 km of feeder road  n the Upper
Region would be improved between 1977 and 1980. Health and education
facilities are hardly adequate, and access to water is unsatisfactory during
the dry season; a Canadian (CIDA) financed village borehole program is cur-
rently being implemented.



- 8 -
B. Agriculture
3.06      Agriculture is almost entirely in the hands of smallholder culti-
vators who combine bush farm cultivation of distant fields with permanent
cultivation of nearby compound farms. Mixed farming and px cultivation
were introduced in the eastern sector in the 1930s, and about 8,000 trained
pairs are presently in the area.
3.07      Average farm size is estimated at 2.4 hectares and is mainly planted
to food crops of which millet and sorghum are the most important. Principal
cash crops are groundnuts, rice and more recently cotton. Cowpeas and bam-
bara nuts are important legumes both for consumption and sale. Mixed crop-
ping is almost universally practiced. There is little surplus production
from the area; the crop production complex is in a sensitive balance with
nature. Adverse climatic conditions are accompanied by sometimes serious
food shortages leading to undernourishment, which can be particularly serious
during the dry season. Increased production and improved onfarm storage under
the Project would be accompanied by a significant increase in Regional food
consumption.
3.08      The Region carries the majority of Ghana's cattle population,
300,000 head. Very little improvement has been undertaken in regard to
better management and feeding of stock. However, the Veterinary Department
is fairly active and, with assistance under the Project, could adequately
service animal health requirements. There are large areas of land available
for ranching (Annex 5).
C. Farm Services
3.09      Farm services are limited.  The Agricultural Development Bank and
commercial banks provide credit almost exclusively to larger farmers. The
Ministry of Agriculture, with the assistance of German aid, distributes
limited amounts of fertilizer and provides very sketchy extension services.
The Cotton Development Board provides farm supplies for cotton production
and is responsible for marketing the crop. Various institutions buy farm
products at seemingly guaranteed floor prices, but only when funds are avail-
able. Outside the main towns there appears to be a marked absence of trading
in consumer goods, reflecting the poverty of the area and the nonavailability
of many essential items. Under the Project, the regional services of the
Ministry of Agriculture would be confined to providing farm extension, animal
health, land development and training for crop and livestock farmers. Its
current role in farm input distribution would be transferred to a Project-
established supply company (the Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.).



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The Project has two principal objectives:  first, to increase agri-
cultural production and thus farm incomes; and second, to establish permanent
farmer support services. The Project would do this by redefining the role of
agricultural service and intensifying extension for crop and animal produc-
tion and human nutrition; by developing associated physical infrastructure,
including an intensive effort to halt the rapid rate of soil erosion; and
by developing specialized institutions to service the commercial and finan-
cial requirements of the Region's farmers.   The Project would be carried
out over a five-year investment period, 1976/77 - 1980/81, and would involve:
Farm Development
-    establishing at a rate of about 30 per year, 90 service
centers, to provide improved extension services to small
farmers and management advice to a relatively few larger
farmers. The service centers would each serve about
1,300 farm families;
-    providing farm inputs, including insecticides, seed
dressings, improved seeds, fertilizers, spare parts,
farm equipment, oxen, etc., for cash, seasonal deferred
payments, and medium and long term loans, to increase
production of about 108,000 ha of land (30% of total arable)
currently under cultivation, including traditional mixed
millet and sorghum, dwarf sorghum, maize, groundnuts,
cotton, rice, cowpeas, and tomatoes;
-    providing improved onfarm grain storage;
-    providing better animal health services and improved
animal husbandry, and establishing ten small (2,000 ha)
ranches for local livestock owners;
-    developing seven applied research and demonstration units
together with an associated seed multiplication program;
-    establishing a pilot functional literacy scheme;
-    expanding Ghana Broadcasting Corporation's facilities
through a radio network and regional studies to broadcast
in three of the most important languages of the Region;
-    improving human nutrition and health through agricultural
extension services, the functional literacy program and
radio; and



- 10 -
providing inservice training for Project staff at the
existing Navrongo Agricultural Institute, providing funds
and travel grants for visits to selected projects and
schemes for specialized management training outside
Ghana.
Physical Infrastructure
-    constructing about 120 new small dams and rehabilitating
about 100 existing dams, together with the associated
structural works to enable the development of dry season
gardening, fruit tree nurseries, and fish ponds; to provide
water for cattle, and to improve water conservation;
-    developing soil conservation measures to protect some
160,000 ha of farm land (i.e., 30% of total arable)
including catchment areas of dams;
-    constructing 700 village wells;
-    constructing stores and offices at farm service centers,
district and regional Project offices, and houses for
Project staff;
-    providing vehicles and other equipment; and
-    constructing two cotton ginneries.
Institutional Support
-    establishing the Upper Region Agricultural Development
Project Management Unit (URPMU), to be responsible for
implementing the Project; in addition to coordinating
and administering the Ministry of Agriculture's existing
services in the Region, URPMU would develop other ser-
vices to meet the demands of the Project;
-    establishing the Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.;
-    strengthening the regional branch of the Agricultural
Development Bank (ADB); and
-    strengthening the Upper Regional Development Corpora-
tion (URDECO), particularly its transport and wholesale
divisions.



- ii -
Development Planning
-    establishing, under direct control of the Project,
a special Onchocerciasis Survey Unit to prepare, in
consultation with the Coordinating Committee of the
National Onchocerciasis Program of Ghana, a Ten-
Year Development Plan and feasibility studies for
investment projects for areas freed from onchocerciasis
in the Upper and Northern Regions of Ghana.
B. Detailed Features
Farm Development
4.02      Service Centers.  The Project would establish, at the rate of 30
per year, 90 service centers to be located in strategic positions through-
out the Region. Each center would serve some 1,300 farmers within a radius
of 5-6 miles, and would be the focal point for farmers groups or associa-
tions, agricultural extension, nutrition and health services, marketing,
rural engineering (blacksmiths), maintenance of farm machinery and equip-
ment, and the supply of inputs. Initially, centers would vary in size; for
example, those located near the major mechanized rice areas would have greater
storage capacity for fertilizers, would provide fuel and tractor spares, and
would have special farm management advisors; whereas those located adjacent
to existing onchocerciasis areas would be smaller, but would expand as oncho-
cerciasis is eliminated and people move back to the valleys (Annex 6).
4.03      Farm Inputs.  The Project, through the Farmers Services Company
(UR) Ltd. (FSC), would provide inputs recommended by URPMU's extension staff.
Seasonal inputs would be available for cash or on a deferred payment basis.
Loans for oxdrawn equipment and oxen would, on the advice of URPMU, be pro-
vided through the regional branch of ADB. Details of farm development re-
sulting from these inputs are at Annex 2.
4.04      Farm Grain Storage would be improved using simple methods, already
established in the Region, that provide for improving existing traditional
storage systems through provision of cement for plastering grain store
walls, and of a concrete slab to seal the top of the store. Ten percent
of the farmers (12,000) should benefit; the improvement program would be
supervised by the Department of Social Welfare and Community Development
(Annex 9).
4.05      Animal Health Services.  The Project would strengthen veterinary
services by providing vaccinations against rinderpest, contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia, blackleg and anthrax, and brucellosis, and regular treat-
ment against internal parasitic infestation of sheep, goats and calves; the
necessary facilities, including cattle handling pens, to support these ac-
tions would also be provided (Annex 5).



- 12 -
4.06      Ranch Development.  Ten 2,000 ha ranches would be developed near
Tumu (see map) which would be owned and managed by individuals or groups of
cattle owners (to be established under the Companies Code) residing in the
Region, particularly in the west. The ranches would produce cattle for sale
locally or to the meat processing plant at Bolgatanga. Land is readily avail-
able, and would be acquired by the Project and leased to the ranching com-
panies; during negotiations assurances were obtained that prior to ranch
development and as a condition of each ranch loan the land would be acquired
by URPMU and leased for a minimum of 45 years to the participants on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 5).
4.07      Seed Multiplication and Research.  The Project would establish,
one at each district agricultural station, seven applied Research and Demon-
stration Units (RDU), to be used primarily for adapting research results,
obtained by the Crop Research Institute's main stations at Kumasi, Manga
and Tamale, to Project conditions. In particular, RDUs would test out rec-
ommended varieties under local management systems, including mixed cropping,
using traditional cultivation methods and normal application rates for fer-
tilizer and insecticides. RDUs would also be used for second stage seed
multiplication and would work closely with FSC in developing with farmers
a certified seed production scheme (Annex 7).
4.08      Radio Broadcasting would comprise establishing an FM radio network
and supporting services; it would be designed to motivate active participa-
tion in the Project; provide community news; stimulate emulation and spread
experience; provide views, criticisms and suggestions, and responses from
farmers; reflect the cultural life of the people; promote mutual awareness
and understanding among linguistic groups; and lend systematic and continuous
support to inservice training of field staff.
4.09      The main station would be at Bolgatanga; because of the large
Project area it would be supported by transmission stations (1 KW) at Tumu,
Lawra, Wa and Bawku. Vehicles and recording equipment would be provided to
enable staff to obtain local material for broadcasting and regular feedback
from farmers. Twenty-two thousand receiving sets would be sold by FSC for
cash or credit. The network would initially broadcast in the three major
Regional languages and English; program content would be determined during
Project implementation, but preliminary proposals include 86 hours per week,
of which 55 would be locally produced, the remaining time being used to relay
national programs from Accra. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that a radio broadcasting engineer, with qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank, would be retained, to prepare, in consultation with GBC, specifications
and tender documents for FM transmission, and to supervise procurement and
installation of broadcasting equipment. (Details at Annex 8).
4.10      Functional Literacy.  The Project would include a functional liter-
acy pilot scheme based on the teaching of information immediately usable during
Project implementation (e.g., agricultural advice, payment documents related to
farm inputs, market receipts, fertilizer bag labels). The scheme would com-
mence in the second year and would involve some sixty classes grouping 1,500
participants in the areas served by four service centers; half of the classes



- 13 -
would be in Dagaari and half in Gurenne speaking areas where almost 70% of the
Region's population lives. Literacy would be provided first in these local
languages and ultimately in English. Particular attention would be paid to
selection of instructors and participants by the villagers themelves, and
close liaison would be maintained with the Bureau of Ghana Languages and the
Institute of Linguistics at Tamale in drawing up programs and preparing
materials (Annex 8).
4.11      Human Nutrition.  The Project would recognize the importance of human
nutrition and health and would provide a specialized nutritionist to develop
simple nutritional programs using agricultural extension workers, functional
adult literacy classes, and radio.
4.12      Inservice Training.  The present ineffective training program for
farmers' sons at the Navrongo Agricultural Institute would be discontinued,
and a series of training courses for Project staff would be introduced. Most
of the courses would be for one to two weeks, would concentrate on a monodis-
cipline approach, and would include simple courses for low level service
center technical staff and salesmen operating FSC stores, to more complex
courses for selected higher level staff in farm management, land planning,
accounting, etc. (Annex 8).
Physical Infrastructure
4.13      Water Development.  The Project would 3construct 120 small earth
dams, each with a minimum capacity of 120,000 m , and would rehabilitate
about 100 (50%) of the existing dams. In each case, particular attention
woull be given to the catchment area of the dam (for new ones, a maximum of
5 km ), spillway design and availability of downstream irrigable land.
Because of the flexibility required in the construction and rehabilitation
of small dams, the work would be undertaken on force account by URPMU.
Small contractors would be used by URPMU on an ad hoc basis (Annex 9).
4.14      It is estimated that the average dam would have surplus capacity
to irrigate an average of 5 ha, and that about 750 ha of land would be
irrigated under the Project. The irrigation program would be simple and
would allow for dry 2season gardening; most farmers would probably cultivate
not more than 100 m ; some 7,500 farmers could participate. Small irrigation
canals would be constructed by hand on each side of the valley below the dams.
Approximately 500 m of canal would be required for each site. Leveling and
bunding would be the responsibility of the farmers (Annex 9).
4.15      There is potential for inland fisheries development, although few
quantitative data are available. It is proposed under the Project that a
series of fish pond complexes be constructed on a pilot basis in associa-
tion with suitable sites and dams (Annex 9).
4.16      To complement an ongoing Ghanaian/CIDA village borehole scheme,
the Project would provide materials for construction, on a self help basis,



- 14 -
of about 700 village wells. Each well would be suitably lined, sealed and
fitted with a pump. The Department of Social Welfare and Community Develop-
ment would oversee construction (Annex 9).
4.17      Soil Conservation.  The Project would undertake measures to pro-
tect a minimum of 160,000 ha of farm land from further serious soil erosion.
Priority would be given to conserving the catchment areas of existing and
new dams. Conservation works would include the construction of cut-off
drains, narrow base contour ditches, waterways, rehabilitation of gulleys,
and general agricultural practices including realignment of ridges, tie
ridging, grass stripping, etc.; tree planting would also be encouraged.
Major conservation works would be constructed by URPMU using machinery pro-
vided under the Project, and URPMU and the farmers would undertake minor
works either individually or in groups (Annex 9).
4.18      Project Buildings.  Offices for URPMU and FSC would be constructed in
Bolgatanga and at each of seven district administrative centers. Very simple
offices would be constructed at the 90 service centers. To provide an incen-
tive for staff to work in the Upper Region, houses would be constructed at
various locations. Prior to construction, Project staff would be housed in
rented accommodation.
4.19      Vehicles and Equipment, ranging from four-wheel drive vehicles for
senior extension officers to motorcycles and bicycles for service center
staff, would be provided (Annex 11).
4.20      Cotton Ginneries.  Two cotton ginneries and associated storage
would be constructed at Wa and Zwarungu. Each would have a minimum through-
put of 9,000 tons seed cotton per annum. The gins would be owned and operated
by the Cotton Development Board (Annex 1).
4.21      Maintenance of dams and soil conservation works would be the respon-
sibility of Project-established Farmers Associations. Farmers are aware of
the problems resulting from non maintenance, and with better communications
and income incentives, regular maintenance is expected. The Project would
be responsible for maintaining buildings, vehicles and equipment.
Institutional Support
4.22      The Project would establish the Farmers Services Company (UR)
Ltd. to provide supplies and mechanical hire services to farmers. Funds
would be provided for employment of specialized staff, and for provision of
equipment, buildings, and working capital (Annex 6).
4.23      The Project would strengthen the regional branch of the Agricul-
tural Development Bank at Bolgatanga through provision of an experienced
agricultural loans officer and vehicles (Annex 6).
4.24      As a servicing organization, the Upper Regional Development Corpora-
tion (URDECO) would have an important role through the provision of transport



- 15 -
services and wholesale supplies for essential commodities which could be
retailed through FSC outlets. The Project would strengthen URDC by providing
an experienced financial controller to facilitate better management and
accounting control.
4.25      The Project would strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture by estab-
lishing a Project Management Unit (URPMU) to coordinate and administer the
Project.  Apart from improving existing functions of the Ministry, it would
develop three new units: a Land Development Division, responsible for land
planning and soil and water conservation; a Department of Planning, Evalua-
tion, and Monitoring; and a Department of Communications and Training. De-
tails at Annex 3.
4.26      Development Planning.  Currently a program to eradicate Simulium
damnosum, the vector of onchocerciasis (riverblindness), is being undertaken in
seven West African countries, including the Upper and Northern Regions of
-Ghafia.  Recently a joint FAO/IBRD mission proposed the preparation of a Ten-
Year Development Plan including investment studies.  The Project outlined
in this report is likely to cover much of the eradicated areas in the Upper
Region and would provide land development and other services to areas freed
of simulium. To ensure proper funding of the planning and feasibility work,
a special Onchocerciasis Unit would be established by the Project's Depart-
ment of Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring. This Unit would cover both the
Upper and Northern Regions and would be supported by consultants (nine man-
years) and staff from Planning Units of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Economic Development. Plans produced by the Unit, in consultation with the
Coordinating Committee of the National Onchocerciasis Program of Ghana, would
comply with guidelines established by the Ministry of Economic Development;
the latter would have access to the Unit and would retain responsibility for
final approval of such plans (Annex 10).



- 16 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      The Project costs are estimated at 463.1 million (US$54.6 million),
of which the foreign exchange component would be 037.5 million (US$32.5 mil-
lion) or 60% of total costs.
5.02      Project costs are detailed at Annex 11 and summarized as follows:
---Cedis million---  ----US$ million           ---%-----
Base
Line Total
Total Foreign Local  Total Foreign Local  Cost Costs
Investments
Incremental farm inputs    13.4   8.7    4.7    11.7    7.6   4.1    30    20
Farmers Services Company    4.2   1.9    2.3         3.6    1.6   2.0       9     7
Land & water development    9.6   6.0    3.6         8.3    5.2   3.1    21    15
Broadcasting network          2.9   1.6    1.3       2.5    1.4   1.1      6      5
Cotton ginneries              2.4   1.7    0.7       2.1    1.5   0.6      5      4
32.5 19.9   12.6    28.2   17.3  10.9    71    51
Government Support Ser-
vices to Farmers
Project administration
overheads                    4.4   1.6    2.8      3.8    1.4   2.4    10        7
Incremental technical
services                     5.7   4.7    1.0       4.9    4.1   0.8    12       9
Communications & training   1.1   0.6    0.5         1.0    0.5   0.5       2     2
Planning, evaluation
& monitoring                 1.1   0.5    0.6       1.0    0.4   0.6      2      2
Consultant support to
associated agencies          0.6   0.5    0.1      0.5    0.4   0.1       1      1
12.9   7.9    5.0    11.2    6.8   4.4    27    21
Onchocerciasis Survey
Unit                         0.7   0.6    0.1       0.6    0.5   0.1       2     1
Baseline costs               46.1  28.4   17.7    40.0   24.6  15.4   100    73
Contingencies:
Physical                  2.3   1.4    0.9      1.9    1.2   0.7              4
Price                    14.7   7.8    6.9    12.7    6.7   6.0              23
PROJECT COST                 63.1  37.6   25.5    54.6   32.5  22.1             100.0
Percentage                  100    60      40      100     60    40



- 17 -
5.03      Costs are incremental based on prices ruling June 1, 1975, and
exclude all identifiable import duties on goods imported directly for the
Project. Physical contingencies comprise 5% of baseline costs and price
contingencies allow for compounded increases in costs of: (a) vehicles,
plant, livestock and farm inputs (excluding fertilizers) and vehicle operating
costs of 16% in 1976, 14% in 1977, 7-1/2% in 1978, and 7% from 1979; (b)
houses, buildings, furnishings and construction materials for dams, wells and
grain storage facilities of 22% in 1976, 18% in 1977, 12% in 1978 and 1979,
and 11% in 1980; and (c) salaries for staff and general administrative and
operating costs of 10-1/2% in 1976 and 7% annually thereafter. Price con-
tingencies are not included for fertilizers, as Bank projections indicate that
average 1980 current prices should not be higher than the June 1975 baseline
prices. Analysis of baseline costs show 71% for production related investments
and 29% for Government support services and planning. Contingencies are
equivalent to 27% of total costs.
B. Proposed Financing
5.04      The Bank Group's contribution would be a loan ("third window") of
US$21.0 million at 4.85%, repayable over 25 years including a seven-year
grace period for principal during which interest and commitment charges would
be paid. This would be equivalent to 38% of total costs and would cover 65%
of foreign exchange costs. Thirty-four percent of foreign costs, 012.7 mil-
lion (US$11.0 million) (20% of total costs) would be funded by the United
Kingdom under a parallel financing agreement comprising a grant for about 50
manyears of technical assistance of approximately f Stg 1.0 million and an
interest-free loan of f Stg 4.0 million 1/ repayable over 25 years including a
seven-year grace period. The remaining 1% of foreign costs, 00.6 million
(US$0.5 million) would be financed from Project-induced other local foreign
exchange earnings.
5.05      The Government of Ghana would finance 25%, amounting to V15.9 million
(US$13.7 million). The remaining 17%, 410.2 million (US$8.9 million), would be
financed by a consortium of Ghanaian financial institutions including the Bank
of Ghana, Agricultural Development Bank, National Investment Bank and the
commercial banks.
5.06      The Bank loan would be made to Government, which would dispose of
the funds as follows:
(a)  04.4 million (US$3.8 million) would be onlent to FSC at
8.85% for 25 years, with seven years grace for principal,
to purchase incremental seasonal farm inputs;
1/  LE Stg 4.0 million would finance preselected and competitive (see para 5.12)
UK manufactured goods which at the time of cost estimation, June 1975, were
valued, including contingencies, at US$8.7 million, when E Stg 1 was equiv-
valent to US$2.2.



- 18 -
(b)  02.5 million (US$2.2 million) would be onlent to the
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) at 8.85% for 25 years
with seven years grace for principal, for onlending for
long term loans to ranchers at 12% for 13 years, and to all
farmers at 12% for medium term loans with repayments up to
five years;
(c)  ¢0.5 million (US$0.4 million) would be onlent to the Cotton
Development Board (CDB), at 8.85% for 15 years, with five
years grace for principal, for the purchases of special
sawgins;
(d) ¢0.6 million (US$0.5 million) would be granted to the Ghana
Broadcasting Corporation (GBC) for establishing the Upper
Region radio network;
(e) 00.6 million (US$0.5 million) would be for FSC in the form of
Government equity for establishing and equipping the Company;
(f) 09.3 million (US$8.0 million) would be granted to URPMU
for internationally recruited staff salaries (0975,000 at
050,000 per manyear, salary and allowances only), vehicles,
equipment, buildings and operating costs; and
(g)  E6.5 million (US$5.6 million) would be reserved to cover
unallocated costs of the above.
5.07      The United Kingdom funds would be passed on as follows:
(a) 42.9 million (US$2.5 million) would be granted to URPMU
for plant, equipment and spare parts;
(b) ¢0.4 million (US$0.3 million) would be for FSC, in the form of
equity held by URDC, for vehicles and equipment;
(c) ¢1.2 million (US$1.0 million) would be onlent to the Cotton
Development Board (CDB) at 8.85% for 15 years, with five years
grace for principal, for the establishment of cotton ginneries
and stores;
(d) ¢1.8 million (US$1.6 million) would be onlent to FSC at
8.85% for 25 years, with seven years grace for principal,
to purchase incremental farm inputs;
(e) 00.8 million (US$0.7 million) would be granted to GBC for
the purchase and installation of radio broadcasting equipment;



- 19 -
(f) 02.6 million (US$2.3 million) would cover the cost of UK
technical assistance staff to URPMU, FSC, ADB, GBC and URDECO; and
(g) £3.0 million (US$ 2.6 million) would be reserved to cover
unallocated costs of the above.
5.08      The local financing agencies would provide £3.5 million (US$3.0
million) for short term overdraft facilities to FSC at 8-1/2%, repayable
within 12 months, to cover the local cost of incremental seasonal farm
inputs; and £4.1 million (US$3.6 million) as equity in the Farmers Services
Company.
5.09      The Agricultural Development Bank would provide 02.6 million (US$2.3
million) for the local cost component of long and medium term loans to ranchers
and farmers.
5.10      The remaining funds would be provided by Government and would in-
clude subventions of ¢1.2 million (US$1.0 million) to Ghana Broadcasting
Corporation, t0.7 million (US$0.6 million) to the Cotton Development Board,
and 09.1 million (US$7.9 million) to URPMU. Unallocated funds estimated at
t4.8 million (US$4.2 million) are reserved for contingencies. In addition
Government would provide additional funds to finance the incremental subsidies
due to the Project, estimated at t2.3 million (US$2.0 million) for seed cotton
and 06.8 million (US$5.9 million) for fertilizers, to be paid to the Cotton
Development Board and Farmers Services Company respectively. Details of the
proposed Project financing are at Annex 11, Table 12, and are summarized as
follows:



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Financing
1 '000
Lending         Percentage
Total          IBRD            UK 1/        Government   Institutions    Distribution
Investment Costs
Ylant, venic es, equipment and stock         8,729.0         3,439.6         4,442.9           846.5              -            14
Building and construction materials         11,551.5         4,094.0           436.8         4,749.2         2,271.5            18
Incremental farm inputs                     13,385.8         6,939.9         1,790.3             -           4,655.6           21
Operating Costs
Vehicle and plant operating                  5,222.2         2,375.4           374.9         2,375.4             96.5            8
Incremental local staff salaries             3,675.1             -               -           3,125.1           550.0             6
Technical assistance                         3,540.0            975.0        2,565.0              -               -              6
Incremental administration costs                63.3.            -               -               -              63.3             -
Baseline Costs                              46,166.9        17,823.9         9,609.9        11,096.2         7,636.9
Physical contingencies                           2,308.3           891.2          480.4            554.8           381.9            4
Price contingencies                             14,579.0        5,514.7         2,634.7         4,231.5         2,198.1            23
Total          Cedis '000                   63,054.2        24,229.8        12,725.0        15,882.5        10.216.9           100
US$ '000                    54,649.0        21,000.0        11,028.7        13,765.3         8,855.0
Percentage distribution                            100              38              20              25              17
1/ Cost estimates for UK manufactured goods and technical assistance services were based on exchange rates
(tstg 1 = US$2.2) ruling on June 1, 1975, and should be adequately covered by a £stg 4 million loan for goods
and about £stg 1.0 million grant for technical assistance.



- 21 -
5.11      It was agreed that retroactive financing of up to US$750,000
(¢0.825 million) would be made available from May 1, 1976 for employment of
key staff, purchase of related support vehicles and equipment, and con-
struction of houses and offices at Bolgatanga.
C. Procurement
5.12      Procurement of radio telephones, broadcasting equipment, land
development heavy plant and equipment, cotton ginnery equipment and build-
ings, four-wheel drive vehicles, trucks, spare parts, pumps and pipes for
wells, cotton sprayers, insecticides, and fungicides, totaling 010.0 million
(US$8.7 million) would be under UK procurement procedures that would be com-
petitive with international prices (Annex 11, Table 10). Procurement of
other vehicles, animal drugs, equipment, transistor radios, aerial photography,
fertilizers, pesticides, tools, livestock and other farm and ranch equipment
under contracts with a value of more than US$50,000 would be through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Such
procurement is estimated to have a value of 015.2 million (US$13.2 million),
and a maximum limit totaling US$1.0 million would be set for those items
purchased through contracts of less than US$50,000 under local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a
15% preference when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufac-
turers. Contracts for the construction of buildings, houses, and the purchase
of construction materials and furnishings valued at 010.5 million (US$9.1
million) would not be attractive to foreign contractors due to the dispersed
location of the units and the small size of individual contracts; for these
items, contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; in
these cases foreign firms and suppliers would not be precluded from bidding.
It is likely that the construction of service center buildings and village
wells would be under the supervision of the Technical Division of the Ministry
of Social Welfare and Community Development, who may use petty contractors or
force account. Construction of small dams and soil conservation works would
be undertaken by URPMU on force account. An estimated 012.0 million (US$10.4
million) would be for incremental labor, staff salaries, allowances, hiring of
consultants, vehicle maintenance and operation, overseas training and general
administrative costs that would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. The
remaining C17.0 million (US$14.6 million) of estimated Project costs would be
for contingencies. Ghana has no preferential import tariff arrangements.



- 22 -
5.13      To protect the Project from procurement delays, assurances were
obtained that within two months of loan effectiveness Government would take
such action required to ensure that the goods imported directly under the
Project would be exempt from any import restrictions and duties.
D. Disbursement
5.14      The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$21.0 million) would be disbursed
over five years to cover 38% of total Project costs against the following
categories:
Category 1.  100% of the CIF costs of directly imported vehicles and equip-
ment (other than farm equipment), sawgins and associated equipment, veter-
inary drugs, and aerial photography (or 86% of the cost of these items
if locally procured), totaling US$2.9 million (43.4 million);
Category 2. 100% of the CIF cost of directly imported fertilizers,
oxdrawn equipment, batteries, transistor radios, livestock and other
ranch and farm equipment (or 65% of the cost of these items if procured
locally), totaling US$6.0 million (46.9 million);
Category 3. 100% of the cost of internationally recruited staff,
including their salaries, allowances and recruitment costs, and
overseas training for local staff, totaling US$0.8 million
(01.0 million);
Category 4. 50% of the cost of buildings (excluding buildings for
FSC and CDB), including furnishings, and construction materials
for dams, soil conservation, wells and grain stores, totaling
US$3.6 million (t4.1 million);
Category 5.  50% of vehicle and plant operating costs (excluding FSC),
totaling US$2.1 million (02.4 million); and
Category 6. An unallocated amount totaling US$5.6 million
(06.4 million).
5.15      Disbursements would be against import documentation, contracts,
and, for Category 5, certified records of expenditure. For disbursement
made against certified records of expenditures, documentation would be
retained by Project agencies for review by Bank/UK supervision missions.
Any surplus funds would be cancelled.



- 23 -
E. Budgetary Control, Funding Procedures,
Accounts and Audits
5.16      Budgets.  Annual budgets would be prepared by URPMU and FSC for
approval by URPMU's Executive Committee and FSC's Board, respectively.
URPMU and FSC would submit monthly cash flow statements to their respective
chairmen for approval.
5.17      Funding Procedures.  Ghana Government would set up an URPMU account
with a commercial bank in Bolgatanga with initial funds of 03.0 million.
Government would arrange for suitable overdraft facilities for URPMU,
guaranteed by Government, to an amount, reflected by the approved URPMU
annual budget, of up to 03 million. The above requirement would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.
5.18      Subsidies for farm inputs (para 2.08) would be reduced.  Project
costs and FSC cash flows are prepared on a gross cost basis, and assurances
were obtained during negotiations that Government would annually reimburse
FSC on the basis of an agreed formula (Annex 6, Appendix 1, Annexures 1 and 2)
for the cost of selling inputs at subsidized rates; that such payments would be
made as and when required on the basis of the annual sales budget; and that CDB
would be adequately funded to cover the subsidy payment on seed cotton.
5.19      Accounts and Audits.  Separate Project-related accounts for URPMU,
FSC, ADB, GBC, and CDB would be maintained under acceptable commercial
accounting procedures, and would be designed to provide cost accounting and
Project evaluation data. All accounts would be audited annually by private
independent auditors approved by the Auditor-General and acceptable to the
Bank. Audited accounts, balance sheets and operating statements would be
submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the financial year.
Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutions
6.01      Successful Project implementation would require changes in the
administrative arrangements for agriculture and rural development now in
existance in the Upper Region. The Project would be the first of its kind
in Ghana and would require good management and careful control. Project
actions would affect or involve many Government Ministries, departments
and corporations; for the Project to succeed a high degree of cooperation
would have to be assured. The greater part of the Project would consist of
activities falling within the purview of the Ministry of Agriculture, and



- 24 -
consequently primary responsibility for the Project would rest with the
Commissioner for Agriculture. Determination of Project policies, financial
control of URPMU and certain administrative powers would be delegated by the
Commissioner for Agriculture to the Upper Region Agricultural Development
Project Executive Committee (URADPEC) which would be chaired by the Regional
Commissioner. Day to day responsibility for implementing the Project would be
further delegated, to a Project Manager who would head URPMU. URADPEC and
URPMU, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Annex 3, Schedule
1), have been formally established by Government. Creation of this "new
level" within the structure of Government would cut across the existing chains
of command that now run from departmental headquarters in Accra to regional
representatives of these departments located in the Upper Region. To ensure
that the Project would benefit fully from the experiences of the departments,
that Project actions would comply with overall departmental policies, and that
there would be "feed back" from the Project to the departments, two specialized
committees would be established on which senior members of departmental
headquarters would serve: first, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) that
would deal principally with administrative and social issues at a regional
level; and second, a Project Technical Committee (PTC) that would concern
itself with agricultural and related matters. These two committees, whose
composition and activities are spelled out in more detail in paras 6.04 and
6.05, would provide support to URPMU, and their findings and recommendations
would be made available routinely to URADPEC, which would be responsible for
resolving any differences in views between URPMU and the Committees.
Government has established URPMU and URADPEC under terms of reference
and with responsibilities acceptable to the Bank. (Annex 3, Schedule 1).
6.02      Upper Region Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
would, inter alia, determine Project policy, exercise budgetary and audit
control, approve appointments of professional staff, and coordinate Project
activities with those of associated Government Ministries. URADPEC would meet
regularly in Bolgatanga and would comprise the Regional Commissioner as
Chairman; senior representatives from Accra of the Ministries of Finance,
Agriculture, Labor, Social Welfare and Cooperation, and Economic Planning;
representatives of the Attorney General of Ghana, the Director General of
Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC), the Bank of Ghana and Agricultural
Development Bank (ADB); the Regional Administrative Officer; the Project
Manager; a member of the House of Chiefs; and two bona fide farmers residing
in the Upper Region to be appointed, on the advice of URPMU, by the Region's
House of Chiefs.
6.03      The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), chaired by the Regional
Administrative Officer, would meet once a month to coordinate relevant re-
gional operating departments and agencies. Other members would include
the Manager and Chief Administrative Officer of URPMU; the Managing Director
of FSC; the Regional Directors of Social Welfare and Community Development,
and Education; the Regional Managers of GBC, ADB, and Ghana Highways Authority
(GRA); representatives of the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, the
Secretariat of the National Coordinating Committee of the Onchocerciasis



- 25 -
Program, and the Upper Regional Development Corporation (URDECO); and the
General Manager of the Cotton Development Board.
6.04      The Project Technical Committee, chaired by the URPMU's Chief of
Field Operations, would be established to ensure adequate technical coordi-
nation and feedback between the Project, the heads of technical departments
of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the country's research organizations.
Members would include departmental heads (Ministry of Agriculture, Accra),
representatives of the Crop Research Institute (CRI), ISSER, and URPMU's
Planning and Evaluation Officer. PCC and PTC would be established as a
condition of loan effectiveness.
6.05      The Upper Region Project Management Unit (URPMU) would carry out
the project in collaboration with two other agencies - the Farmers Services
Company (UR) Ltd. (see para 6.06), and the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation
(GBC) (see para 6.07). URPMU would consist basically of the existing per-
sonnel of the Ministry of Agriculture now located in the Upper Region, to-
gether with additional staff, recruited locally and internationally, needed
to provide the additional expertise that is required for the successful im-
plementation of the Project. An exception to this general rule would be
staff of the Irrigation Department who would, as now, remain under the direct
control of their Accra headquarters and be responsible for the implementation
of large scale irrigation projects in the Region. The Irrigation Department
would hand over, however, the responsibilities it now has for small dam con-
struction and soil conservation to the Project. In an endeavor to develop
a long term capability for providing heavy plant and equipment support for
regional land development purposes, a special "Soil and Water Conservation
Account" (SWCA) would be established, thereby enabling URPMU to establish
commercial operating rates and pay commercial wages and output bonuses to
SWCA operators. URPMU would have the form and basic functions of a regional
department of agriculture but would benefit from a high degree of autonomy
and from the fact that its implementation policies would be developed by a
committee, URADPEC, on which there would be strong representation from the
Upper Region itself. This regional type of organization is in line with
Government's policy of decentralization and has the advantage that at the
end of the Project investment period it can be left in place, with appropri-
ate staff reduction, to function as a regular component of the Ministry of
Agriculture and responsible for that Ministry's activities in the Upper
Region. Details of URPMU operations are at Annex 3.
6.06      The Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. would be established as a
condition of loan effectiveness under the 1963 Companies Code Act No. NRCD
289, with Regulations (as drafted at Annex 6, Appendix 1) acceptable to the
Bank, to ensure proper commercial servicing of the Region's farmers. It would
supply all farm inputs and would take over the current responsibilities for
mechanical hire services to farmers from URDC and MA. The Company (see
organogram at Annex 6, Appendix 2) would be part owned by Government, farmers,
and a consortium of banking institutions.



- 26 -
6.07      Regional Broadcasting Network would be owned, operated and staffed
by the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC). The network would be controlled
by GBC's Regional Manager who would be a member of the Project Coordinating
Committee. During negotiations assurances were obtained that at least 70% of
broadcast programs would originate from and be directed to the Upper Region,
and that the annual broadcasting budget and programming policy would be
jointly approved by URADPEC and GBC.
B. Staffing
6.08      The Project would need a high level of management efficiency and
technical competence to achieve its objectives. It is both large and com-
plex; some 125,000 farmers and their families could have their lives altered
through its implementation. Given this heavy responsibility, it is essental
that the Project be staffed in such a way as to permit its prompt execution,
to sustain its impetus, and to make modifications in the Project as need
emerges. Compared to some other West African countries, Ghana is partic-
ularly well-off in having well-educated personnel. However, Ghana has still
not had experience in carrying out a project of this size and complexity. The
most critical period will be the initial two or three years, when the basic
structure has to be developed, systems tested and modified, and staff trained
at all levels. This will require experienced personnel of proven ability for
its key positions. Wherever possible, qualified and experienced Ghanaians
would be recruited, but some foreign, internationally recruited staff would
also be required. The qualifications and job descriptions for most of the
important Project posts are at Annex 3, together with tables indicating those
positions where it is likely that international recruitment will be needed.
Most of the latter positions would be filled by Ghanaians by the end of the
third year. During negotiations assurances were obtained that for URPMU
the Project Manager, Chief of Field Operations, Chief Accountant, Senior
Communications and Training Officer, Senior Planning Evaluation Officer,
Senior Land Development Officer, Ranch Development Officer, Plant Breeder,
Senior Irrigation Officer; and for FSC, the Managing Director and Chief
Accountant, would be appointed having experience, qualifications, and terms
and conditions of service satisfactory to the Bank. At the same time agree-
ment was reached on those staff positions to be filled under international
recruitment. (Annex 11, Table 11) The latter would be funded under the Bank
loan and a technical assistance grant that has been offered to Government by
the United Kingdom.
6.09      The method of staff recruitment and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would vary. For URPMU Ghanaian Government staff it is unlikely that em-
ployment conditions would vary substantially from existing employment regula-
tions. However, inducements would include improved housing and transportation.
Staff from the Cotton Development Board would be seconded on CDB terms and
conditions. All other Ghanaian staff would be employed on three-year renew-
able contracts. FSC staff would be employed on conditions established by
the Board which would follow normal commercial practice. To ensure that
sufficient staff are made available, Government agreed, during negotiations,



- 27 -
that Project staff recruitment would be given priority and that once appointed
to URPMU an officer would not be transferred for a minimum of three years
unless approved by URADPEC.
6.10      Internationally recruited staff would be employed either on a
direct-hire basis by Project agencies or seconded under bilateral technical
assistance arrangements, and in some instances employed through consultancy
contracts. The Agricultural Projects Management Unit (APMU) of the Bank's
West African Region has been requested to assist in the recruitment of inter-
national staff. The Bank's Project Preparation Facility, established in
December 1975, may be employed to prefinance the cost of appointing such staff
prior to loan effectiveness. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that
URPMU's Project Manager and Chief of Field Operations, and FSC's Managing
Director, had been appointed.
C. Staff Training
6.11      The head of the Communications and Training Department, who would
play a key role in staff training, would be critical to the long term suc-
cess of the Project. Training would focus on inservice management and tech-
nical training at all levels of URPMU and associated agency staff. The
Communications and Training Department would be responsible for determining
type and duration of courses, selecting candidates, and evaluating results.
Senior specialist staff from operational departments would give courses in
related subjects. Training for junior staff and farmers committees would
take place at Farmers Service Centers and at the Navrongo Agricultural In-
stitute. Medium and senior staff would generally attend courses at Navrongo,
but when necessary would attend training courses outside the Region. Where
possible, institutions such as the University of Ghana, ADB, and the Crop
Research Institute would assist in this training program.
6.12      An incentive scheme would be introduced to allow selected staff
to travel abroad either within or outside Africa for short periods of up
to two months to carefully selected projects or courses which are directly
relevant to the staff member's field. The training program for staff would
be further extended through the use of the Region's radio network, which
would broadcast special staff training programs directed particularly at
lower level field staff.
D. Farm Inputs: Procurement and Distribution and Credit Procedures
6.13      The Project, through FSC, would be responsible for the procurement,
distribution and sale of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, sprayers, oxdrawn
equipment, oxen, spare parts, transistor radios and other necessary farm and
ranch supplies.



- 28 -
6.14      The Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. would have an authorized
share capital of t12.0 million. Initial subscribers would include the Gov-
ernment (shares held by Ministry of Finance), the Bank of Ghana, National
Investment Bank, and the three commercial banks. Government would initially
be the majority shareholder with a financial equity of t1.0 million (US$0.8
million) provided from Bank and UK external funds, and equity in kind com-
prising existing land and storage facilities. A subscription of f4.1 million
is required from the banking and investment institutions. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that in the event of equity participation failure
by a commercial bank or investment agency, Government would undertake to
increase its own equity correspondingly. The farmers would obtain equity
through a compulsory 2-1/2% mark up on the CIF and/or store price of purchased
inputs which would be credited to their share accounts. TheCompany's Board of
Directors would comprise the Project Manager as Chairman, the FSC Managing
Director, three representatives of banking and investment equity holders, two
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and three farmers representing the
Farmers Associations. FSC's Chief Accountant would be Secretary to the Board.
Estimates indicate that FSC would be financially sound with a 13% financial
rate of return.
6.15      The Company would own and operate a retail distribution network,
and through 90 stores would supply farmers with farm inputs which would be
sold on a commercial basis (including a minimum 20% mark up to cover over-
heads and profit) for either cash or deferred payments (supplier's credit).
The Company would operate a revolving fund, for purchased farm inputs, com-
prising a 06.2 million loan from Government (source IBRD/UK) to cover in-
cremental foreign costs (8.85% for 25 years with seven years grace for
principal), and short term overdraft facilities of about e3.5 million from
the commercial banks. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
Company would be exempt from duties, taxes and import restrictions for its
first five years of operations.
6.16      The Company would provide inputs to only those farmers approved
by URPMU's technical staff; this, to some extent, would reduce the possi-
bility of purchases of inputs for further retailing either in or outside
Ghana. Furthermore, any farmer requiring deferred payment privileges would
have to be approved by his Farmers Association, which would have collective
liability. Interest plus service charges for goods purchased on deferred pay-
ments would result in a differential of 12% above cash prices; this would re-
flect the cost of borrowing by the Company, bad debts, and the additional
cost of administration. A discount would be made for early repayments. Far-
mers Associations would be informed of defaulters and would be requested to
recover outstanding loans. If this fails, members of defaulting associations
would not be eligible for deferred payment purchases.
6.17      In instances of crop failure, FSC Board would reschedule debts.
Any massive rescheduling on this basis would place a financial strain on
the Company, and the shareholders, other than the farmers, would undertake
to underwrite adequate additional funds in proportion with their holdings.



- 29 -
6.18      Medium and Long Term Credit.  The Company would act as agent for
the Agricultural Development Bank and would provide oxen, oxdrawn equipment
and transistor radios to the farmers at 12% interest over five years. The
Company would retain 1-1/2% for its services. Loan approval and recovery
would be the same as for deferred payments. Farmers requiring loans for
oxen would be required to match each oxen purchased on loan with one of
their own, both to be branded to establish ownership. A down payment of
at least 20% would be required on loans for purchase of farm equipment.
6.19      Credit to ranch companies established under the Project would
be made directly by ADB on the advice of URPMU's Animal Husbandry Services
Division. Seasonal credit would be at 12% and long term loans would be at
12% for up to 13 years, with a five-year grace for principal.
6.20      Farm credit provided by commercial banks and ADB to large farmers
could be used for purchasing inputs from Company stores. This would help
to improve repayment records of large farmers which in the past have been
poor due to lack of inputs and resultant low production. To strengthen
ADB's regional office in Bolgantanga, the Project would provide an experi-
enced loans officer to assist existing loan staff.
6.21      At certain selected service centers, diesel fuel, etc., would
be available for cash. As there are very few retail outlets for basic con-
sumer goods in the remote rural areas, FSC would slowly build up retail
outlets at its centers for goods supplied through URDECO, thus establishing
an important link in the growth of rural trade. FSC would, where possible,
use URDECO transport services, and would initially, on a leasehire basis,
provide URDECO with ten trucks to expand its transportation system. If URDECO
failed to respond, the vehicles would be withdrawn and operated by FSC.
For full details of the operational procedures and functions of FSC, see
Annex 6.
6.22      During negotiations assurances were obtained that FSC would limit
its business to Project participation for five years, and would not amend its
regulations without prior consent of the Bank.
6.23      A bar chart at Annex 3, Schedule 7, details the organizational
and decision making process and approximate timing of Project implementa-
tion.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, FARMERS BENEFITS AND
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS TO GOVERNMENT
A. Production
7.01      Due to the complexity of cropping mixtures and patterns throughout
the Region, incremental production resulting from the Project is difficult



- 30 -
to express in terms of single crop yields. From a detailed study of re-
search undertaken in northern Ghana and at similar latitudes elsewhere in
West Africa, the potential for crop yield improvement has been assessed and
an attempt made to express existing yields in terms of pure stand equivalent
which takes account of yield benefits due to mixed cropping. These are pre-
sented in the form of single hectare budgets in Annex 2. Overall, the Proj-
ect would improve the production of about 108,000 ha (30% of total arable)
currently being cropped. The farmer grows a whole range of crops, the pro-
portions of which change from year to year in response to his needs and to
the market. It is impossible to define these proportions exactly, but an
estimate has to be made for determining Project costs and benefits. In
preparing the estimates, account was taken of future pricing trends, farmer
preferences, and market demands. A summary of target yields and expected
1981 incremental production is given below.
Area       Average       Incremental
Developed    Yields        Production
'000 ha      kg/ha         '000 tons
Millet/sorghum (mixed 1:1)         20.0         1,200           10.0
Dwarf sorghum                       6.0         1,800            6.3
Maize                               4.0         2,000            5.0
Rice                               19.0         2,200          29.6
Groundnuts                         25.0           900           11.2
Yams                                3.0         9,000           15.0
Cowpeas                            10.0           900            7.0
Cotton                             20.0           900           18.0
Tomatoes                             .8        15,000            6.0
Meat                                              -              3.3
B. Markets and Prices
7.02      Market prospects for Project production are generally good, al-
though prices when expressed in constant terms are projected to decline
over the development period. Although the Region is already a net ex-
porter, under- and malnutrition are prevalent throughout much of the rural
population, and consequently a proportion of incremental production is
expected to be directly consumed; marketed output is expected to comprise
mainly paddy rice, cotton, groundnuts, cowpeas and yams. Nationally, self-
sufficiency in rice appears to be near, at least at current price relation-
ships, but realization of projected world prices for any quantities exported
would require an improvement in present milling standards. There are ample
crushing facilities in the country and all groundnut production is expected
to be processed locally, pubstituting for imported oils and providing pro-
tein cake for the growing animal feed industry. Only small surpluses are
anticipated for other food crops and these should be readily absorbed either
domestically or in neighboring Upper Volta where grain deficits are expected
to persist. The demand for meat is far in excess of supply, as it is through-
out West Africa.



- 31 -
7.03      The Project would not involve itself directly in produce marketing,
but it would, through URPMU's Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department
and FSC, collect accurate marketing information for dissemination to the
farmers through the media of radio broadcasting, news sheets, etc. By pro-
viding storage areas at farm service centers, it would facilitate group and
bulk produce assembly of interested farmers' groups; and, possibly through
the aid of FSC and the commercial banks, the Project would develop a system
of bonded storage that would enable farmers to receive an initial cash pay-
ment for produce (Annex 1).
7.04      Future economic farmgate prices have been projected from Bank
commodity forecasts using a shadow rate of exchange to reflect the economic
value of foreign exchange in terms of cedis, while comparable forecasts, based
on recent local prices, have been made for domestic crops such as yams and
cowpeas (Annex 1, Tables 5-13).
/1
Current and Projected Economic Prices,
Cedis per Metric Ton
Constant 1975 Terms
Current                           1980
Millet               254                              216
Sorghum              249                              212
Paddy Rice           253                              186
Groundnuts           530                              407
Cowpeas              376                              294
Maize                177                              143
Yams                 190                              150
Seed Cotton          763                              747
Live Cattle        1,000                            1,430
/1   Farmgate prices based on IBRD price commodity pro-
jections of November 26, 1975. The current review
of commodity prices does not indicate any significant
long term price changes for Project commodities.
C. Farmers Benefits
7.05      No attempt has been made in the report to produce a typical farm
budget since farm sizes and production patterns vary considerably through-
out the Region and any such budget would not be realistic. Direct benefits
accruing to participating farmers can be evaluated by an analysis of the
changes in crop area, input use, and yields that the Project aims to achieve.
The data below provide an order of magnitude of the net returns per hectare



- 32 -
and per manday resulting from the shift from pre-Project technology to that
proposed.
/
Project Proposed
Pre-Project Technology /1         Technology            Income
Net Return   Net Return    Net Return   Net Return  Increase
per hectare  per manday    per hectare  per manday        %
______--------------- Cedis ---------------------
Millet/Sorghum          118.9        1.49            163.2         1.63         37
Dwarf Sorghum           126.1        1.52            221.0         1.84         73
Maize                     75.7       1.01            111.1         1.01         48
Rice                     95.4        0.91            158.9         1.14         66
Groundnuts              117.3        1.30            198.0         1.58         69
Yams                    212.0        1.37            411.0         1.91         94
Cowpeas                  35.1        0.78             96.9         1.02        176
Cotton                   97.3        0.97            295.1         1.97        303
Tomatoes                908.8        2.27          1,697.1         3.03        187
/1   Expressed at 1981 prices in 1975 constant cedis terms on the basis of
unsubsidized inputs. US$1 = ¢1.154.
7.06      Benefits accruing to those participating in the livestock compo-
nent of the Project are varied and complex. The veterinary health improve-
ment proposals are based on the assumption that further increases in offtake
are unlikely to occur under predevelopment conditions, and new investments
should result in an increase in the value of output per breeding cow of about
060/annum by 1990; the improved output from sheep and goats (shoats) would
increase from 02.7 to 011.5 per shoat unit. The average livestock owner
(40% of the Region's population) is likely to net an additional 0200 per
annum. The ranching component is commercial and enclave and results, in
the 15th year, in an annual increase in income after tax of 014,000 per ranch
representing a 19% financial rate of return. This income could be divided
between as many as 20 shareholders, all of whom would be local cattle owners.
7.07      Currently the average farm income due to crop production is about
0280 per annum. The Project would, by 1981, increase this by 32% to 0370
per annum, thus raising per capita income from 041 to 054 (6% per annum).
Depending on the results from the livestock investment, incomes could be
further increased by as much as 080 per annum by 1990.
D. Financial Implications
7.08      Like other rural development projects, the Project does not signi-
ficantly increase directly-generated revenue to Government, as there are no
Government taxes or cesses that can be applied to farmers' produce except



- 33 -
FSC's corporation tax, which would be about ¢1 million in 1985. However,
there are likely to be substantial indirect revenues through further develop-
ment effects, although such revenues cannot be quantified at this stage. All
loans made by Government to ADB, FSC and CDB would be fully repaid within 25
years. The net average cost to Government from Years 1-5, exclusive of
external debt repayment, would be C4.0 million; from Years 6-25, 02.7
million; and from Years 22-30, 07.4 million (Annex 11, Table 6).
7.09      The financial implications for FSC, ADB and CDB are at Annexes 6
and 11. In each case, on the assumption of adequate management and controls,
there is a positive cash flow that provides sufficient incentives for partic-
ipants.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The Project would benefit in one way or another the Region's 125,000
farm families, principally by substantially improving net incomes. Quantifica-
tion and identification of beneficiaries is not easy. The Project would
improve the production on about 108,000 ha (30% of total land cultivated each
year). If the Project is moderately successful perhaps only half the farmers
(60,000) will benefit directly. However, the Project would not exclude any
farmer, and given the proper incentives of timely supply of inputs, credit,
extension services and favorable prices, it would be quite conceivable for 90%
of the farmers to receive direct benefits from the Project. The overall
economic rate of return is 40%; for the ranching component the return is 31%
at a cost of 01.0 million; while that of the crop production component is 33%
at a cost of 044.8 million. The return to the animal health component is
very high (95%) at a cost of 02.7 million. Important assumptions used in the
calculations at Annex 11 are:
(a)  Commodity and fertilizer economic prices are based on the
Bank's projections up to 1985 and 1985 prices thereafter.
Economic prices of insecticides and pesticides, seeds,
farm implements and feed are assumed constant throughout
the period. Family and hired labor are priced at a shadow
rate of t0.8 per manday, compared to the financial rate
of 01 per manday, to reflect the average opportunity cost
and labor productivity in the area.
(b)  Foreign exchange is priced at 01.50 per US dollar, as com-
pared to the prevailing financial price of 01.154 per US
dollar.
(c)  The 1981 production targets are expected to be maintained
through Year 20 of the project.



- 34 -
(d) All costs associated with the Project are incremental and
are included in the calculation of the economic rate of
return.
(e) All identifiable taxes and duties on both inputs and outputs
are excluded.
8.02      The Project would be sensitive to increased costs and lowered
benefits due to lower than anticipated yields or prices. Farmer response
estimates are considered conservative; however, analysis shows that if Project
administrative and service costs remain constant but response is less than
anticipated with a commensurate reduction in farm inputs, the Project would
still be economically viable if the area under improved production were
reduced to 55,000 ha. A detailed sensitivity analysis is at Annex 11, Table
19; its main features are summarized below:
Benefits                       K          - 20           -30          K
Costs                          K            K             K        +30
Rate of return (X)             40           26            18         23
K = appraisal base estimate - variation expressed as percentage.
8.03      The Project would have important secondary benefits that would
accrue to the people of the Region and to the economy as a whole. The most
important are:
(a) The Region's population would benefit from:
(i)  a general improvement in communications media and
information;
(ii) improved domestic water supplies, nutrition and food
storage;
(iii) increased farmer participation in local development
and decision making; and
(iv) new institutions specifically designed to serve the
Region for the foreseeable future.
(b)  The Project could have a profound effect on national de-
velopment policies affecting the agricultural sector; in
particular the Project would, because of its size, have a
marked impact on commodity pricing marketing policies and
input subsidies. The Project would train considerable num-
bers of Government service staff in managerial and tech-
nical disciplines who could assist in the development of



- 35 -
other regions. Because of Ghana's policy of decentraliz-
ing administration to a regional level, the Project would
be replicable.
(c) The Project could result in substantial net savings in
annual foreign exchange, estimated by 1981 in 1975 con-
stant terms to be equivalent to 012 million for crop
production, and as much as t11 million for beef.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) by June 30, 1977, a paper setting out Government's
agricultural pricing and subsidy policy would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank for comment
(AR 2.11; LA 4.05) 1/;
(b) prior to ranch development and as a condition of each
ranch loan the land would be acquired by URPMU and leased
for a minimum of 45 years to the participants on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (AR 4.06; LA 3.05);
(c) a radio broadcasting engineer, with qualifications satis-
factory to the Bank, would be retained to propose, in con-
sultation with GBC, specifications and tender documents for
FM transmission, and to supervise procurement and installation
of broadcasting equipment AR 4.09; LA 3.02(a));
(d) within two months of loan effectiveness, Government would take
such action required to ensure that goods imported directly
under the Project would be exempt from import restrictions
and duties (AR 5.13; LA 3.06);
(e)  if subsidies for farm inputs are not entirely removed,
Government would pay FSC in advance amounts equivalent
to the subsidy then in force calculated on the basis of
an agreed timetable and formula, and CDB would be ade-
quately funded to cover the subsidy payment on seed
cotton (AR 5.18; LA 4.06(a) and (b));
(f) separate Project-related accounts maintained for URPMU, FSC,
ADB, GBC and CDB would be kept under acceptable commercial
accounting procedures; all accounts would be audited
annually by independent commercial auditors approved by the
Auditor General and acceptable to the Bank; audited accounts,
1/   AR refers to the appraisal report paragraph, and LA refers to the
Loan Agreement section number.



- 36 -
balance sheets and operating statements would be submitted to
the Bank within four months of the closing of the financial
year (AR 5.19; LA 4.02 and 4.03);
(g) at least 70% of broadcast programs would originate from
and be directed to the Upper Region, and that the annual
broadcasting budget and programming policy in the Upper
Region would be jointly approved by URADPEC and GBC (AR 6.07;
LA 4.07);
(h) for URPMU, the Project Manager, Chief of Field Opera-
tions, Chief Accountant, Senior Communications and
Training Officer, Senior Planning and Evaluation
Officer, Senior Land Development Officer, Ranch Devel-
velopment Officer, Plant Breeder and Senior Irrigation
Officer; and for FSC, the General Manager and Chief
Accountant would have satisfactory qualifications and experi-
ence, and be employed under terms and conditions of service
acceptable to the Bank; and agreement would be reached on
those staff positions to be filled under international re-
cruitment (AR 6.08; LA 3.08);
(i) Project staff recruitment would be given priority by Govern-
ment and, once appointed to URPMU, an officer would not be
transferred for a minimum of three years, unless approved by
URADPEC (AR 6.09; LA 3.09);
(j) in the event of equity participation failure by a commercial
bank or investment agency, Government would undertake to in-
crease its own equity correspondingly (AR 6.14; LA 4.08 (c));
(k) FSC would be exempt from duties, taxes and import
restrictions during its first five years of operations
(AR 6.15; LA 4.08 (b)); and
(1) the Company (FSC) would limit its business to project par-
ticipation for five years, and would not amend its Regula-
tions without prior consent of the Bank (AR 6.22; LA 4.08 (e)).
9.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) Ghana Government had set up an account for URPMU with
a commercial bank in Bolgatanga and had funded the account
with an initial 03.0 million. It would also arrange for
establishing suitable overdraft facilities for URPMU
guaranteed by Government to an amount, reflected by the
approved URPMU annual budget, of up to 03 million (AR 5.17;
LA 6.01 (a) and (b);



- 37 -
(b) PCC and PTC had been established (AR 6.04; LA 6.01(f);
(c) FSC had been established with Regulations acceptable
to the Bank (AR 6.06; LA 6.01(d); and
(d)  the Project Manager, Chief of Field Operations and the
Managing Director of the Farmers Services Company had
been appointed (Ak 6.10; LA 6.01 (c) and (d)).
9.04      It was agreed that retroactive financing for up to US$750,000 would
be available from May 1, 1976, for the employment of key staff, purchase of
related support vehicles and equipment, and construction of housing and office
accomodation at Bolgatanga (para 5.12).
9.05      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the Project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.0 million.






ANNEX 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing, Markets and Prices
Contents                                                 Page No.
A.        Background Summary                                                 1
B.        Food Crop Marketing                                                2
Present Marketing Deficiencies                                    2
Marketing and the Project                                         3
Market Information Services                                       3
C.        Cotton Marketing                                                   4
Ginning and Storage                                               6
D.        Rice Marketing and Milling                                         7
Rice Marketing and the Project                                   10
E.        Markets and Prices                                                10
Crop Prices                                                      11
Table  1  Seasonal Fluctuation of Wholesale Prices on Four Markets
in the Upper Region, 1973
Table  2 Average Wholesale Prices
Table  3 Agricultural Produce Imports
Table  4  Food Balance Sheet (1980)
Table  5. Farmgate Prices - Summary
Table  6  Forecast Crop Prices - Sorghum
Table  7  Forecast Crop Prices - Rice (Import Substitution)
Table  8  Forecast Crop Prices - Rice (Export Parity)
Table  9  Forecast Crop Prices - Maize
Table 10  Forecast Crop Prices - Groundnuts
Table 11  Forecast Crop Prices - Cowpeas
Table 12  Forecast Crop Prices - Yams
Table 13  Forecast Crop Prices - Cotton
Table 14  Ginning Costs
Table 15  Ginnery Staffing
Table 16  Estimated New Ginnery Operating Costs






ANNEX 1
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing, Markets and Prices
A. Background Summary
1.        In Ghana, cereals, legumes and other crops are marketed through a
vigorous but loosely connected free enterprise system. The extent of Govern-
ment interference (by monopoly buying or floor price arrangements) varies be-
tween regions, being confined to rice and cotton in the Upper Region. Never-
theless, official maize buying activities in other parts of the country can
affect farmers and consumers in the Region. There is an overall production
deficit situation for annual industrial crops (cotton and oil seeds) and
some foodgrains. The supply/demand gap is bridged by imports and a degree
of undernutrition, particularly in the Upper Region. Imports are controlled
through licenses and duties of up to 50% ad valorem; a form of price control
system is operated at wholesale and retail level for imported foods and those
crops purchased at fixed prices by Government agencies.
2.        The 3.3 million urban dwellers situated mainly in the southern half
of the country account for 34% of the population; they provide a continuing
demand, resulting in about 50% of cereal and root crop production entering
market channels. Despite this, the somewhat arbitrary Government production
and pricing policies for individual crops causes both supply and price dis-
tortions which could have serious repercussions, particularly if attempts
are made to compensate by increasing official intervention. This situation
is exacerbated by the naturally extensive nature of production, relatively
poor communications and the consequent wide and erratic price spreads both
between markets and over time.
3.        Relative to production there has been considerable overinvestment
in agro-industry, particularly for seed crushing, wheat milling, and tomato
canning. The same situation applied to rice until very recently, but the
problem now has changed to one of occasional local undercapacity due to im-
perfect mill siting.
B. Food Crop Marketing
4.        Dietary preferences vary markedly throughout the country and range
from the predominantly rootcrop, plantain, maize pattern of the southern and
middle belts, to primarily cereal (millet/sorghum) in the north. Mobility
of population combined with conservatism in taste results in a fairly brisk



ANNEX 1
Page 2
inter and intraregional trade which is characterized by a large number
of participants. Trade at retail and, to a lesser extent, wholesale level,
is dominated by women, particularly in the south. Scales are not used nor
is there any standardization of measures between or in individual markets.
Trade is normally in small lots on a cash basis, although regular sala-
ried customers seldom experience difficulty in obtaining credit to pur-
chase larger quantities for home consumption. 1/
5.        Statutory intervention in food crop marketing occurs through the
Rice Milling Unit (Ministry of Agriculture) which pays an annually fixed
price at six buying stations, 2/ and the Food Distribution Corporation
which has recently taken over the price support operations of the Grains
Board. The Food Production Corporation 3/ also has a marketing arm. Whole-
sale and retail prices for rice, maize and wheat products are fixed by the
Price and Income Board; enforcement is difficult, however, particularly in
the more remote areas and in times of shortage; prices fluctuate freely at
local level. The Food Distribution Corporation attempts to intervene at
farm level postharvest and alleviate some of the later effects of shortages,
especially in the urban areas; this activity is ineffective in the Upper
Region due to shortage of storage facilities and lack of transport.
Present Marketing Deficiencies
6.        Quantitative market information is scanty; however, observations
and data that are available reveal a number of persisting problems. None
of these are unusual, but in the context of the Upper Region geography pro-
vides an important complicating factor. Direct proximity to neighboring
countries where dietary habits are more closely related to those in the
Region than are those of people in much of the rest of Ghana inevitably
means that flow of produce and inputs will be very sensitive to external
influences and policies. Bawku, for example, has long been a center of
local international arbitrage and transit, and the extent of the border
is such that these movements can never be wholly controlled. Any unilat-
eral change in circumstances or conditions in neighboring countries could
thus have considerable effect in the Upper Region and vice versa, causing
local distortions of trade which could affect the Project if the cause re-
mained undetected for long.
1/   In Bolgatanga the basic unit for this type of business appeared to
be one bag (204 lbs). Deferred payment charge around 02 per ¢24 per
month.
2/   Situated at Wa, Tumu, Navrongo, WaleWale, Bolgatanga and Bawku.  RMU
have mills at Bolgatanga, Bawku and Wa, the latter being inoperative
at present.
3/   Current plantings in the Upper Region total about 1,270 ha, of which
800 ha is late millet. Farms are at Wa, Tumu, Chiano, Navrongo,
Bolgatanga and Tivi; there are plans to produce an annual total of
1,600 ha groundnuts, 400 ha sorghum, and 800 ha late millet on a
nucleus estate/outgrowers basis.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        Although crops are sold out of the Upper Region, consumption falls
some way below desirable levels and a high incidence of malnutrition has been
recorded, 1/ particularly in women and young children. The "hungry season,"
extending from April through to at least the early millet harvest, is an
undeniable fact of rural life and in many families food intake at the end
of the dry season meets only about 60% of normal energy requirements. There
are a number of contributing causes, apart from inadequacies of initial
production; from the marketing standpoint the most important is that many
smallholders do not achieve the potential value of their produce. The
marketing system is unable to absorb large quantities over a short period
(particularly postharvest) except with a substantial discount. The converse
naturally applies and price movements are consequently substantial (Table 1).
8.        The smallholders' inherent lack of bargaining power is compounded
by lack of cash and inadequate information. A price collection service is
operated by MA 2/ but speed of acquisition and analysis is low and provision
for dissemination in the markets nonexistent; communication difficulties are
in any case enhanced by the absence of a common language.
Marketing and the Project
9.        The Project would improve the present situation by:
(a) ensuring rapid availability of accurate market
news and advice through the media of the Proj-
ect-established broadcasting service;
(b) providing facilities for group bulking and
marketing operations;
(c) investigating and developing, if feasible,
a bonded store system.
Market Information Services
10.       A section headed by a marketing economist would be established
in the Project's Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department to collect,
analyze and disseminate market information. Prime emphasis would be on
speed and accuracy in providing price information, while a continuing
effort would be made to build up a comprehensive picture of regional pat-
terns of consumption and trade. The section would operate on a district
1/   By nutritionists working in the Christian Services Committee's Nutrition
and Children's Rehabilitation Project, operating in Bawku since 1962.
2/   At the following Upper Region markets:  Bolgatanga, Zebilla, Bawku,
Widana, Navrongo, Sandema, Fumbisi, Tumu, Nandom, Lawra, Babile,
Tangasia and Wa.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
basis in order to minimize language problems, with a marketing officer and
market recorder (F.A. 2) based in each district office. Specific and gen-
eral market information would be collected daily and transmitted to the
head office, which would, in turn, regularly relay important news to the
districts. Dissemination would be by radio, news sheets and simple graphic
board notices at service centers, while extension staff would be briefed
regularly. Instruction and advice on basic marketing principles and prac-
tices would also be provided to groups and associations by district mar-
keting offices.
II.       Assembly and weighing facilities at FSC service centers would be
available for use by groups. No initial fee would be required, but produce
stored on behalf of farmers groups would have to be in quantities acceptable
to FSC, and bear rent and costs of insecticidal dusting or other prophylac-
tic treatments. Produce owners would be required to provide all labor.
12.       In order to reduce market pressures, particularly at harvest
time, the practicality of developing a source of marketing or consumer
funds against the security of a harvested crop would be sought. The co-
operation of the Grains Warehousing Company (now in process of formation),
ADB and the commercial banks would be enlisted through FSC. The objective
would be to provide an acceptable alternative source of cash, albeit rather
short term, so that farmers are not forced to sell crops at any specific
time. Difficulty may lie in agreeing base values, but the actual mechan-
ics of the operation would be simple, the pledged grain being placed under
triple lock (Bank, farmer, FSC) in an FSC store pending repayment of the
advance or expiry of agreed time period. Fumigation and storage charges
would be for borrowers' account, in addition to interest.
C. Cotton Marketing
13.       Present Situation.  Cotton marketing is carried out by the Cotton
Development Board (CDB) staff in mobile buying teams operating a two-round
schedule over the 12-week marketing season. Cotton is assembled at access
points convenient to the growers, who are supplied with 1.5 meter square
cloths able to contain about 45 kg seed cotton. Purchases are for cash on
an accept or reject basis, the cloths being weighed on truck by steel yard
or spring balance. CDB operating areas do not coincide with regional bound-
aries, but seed cotton purchases from smallholders are estimated as follows:



ANNEX I
Page 5
---------------------'000 tons---------------------
1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75
Upper Region                  168          482        625         476         723
Northern Region                88          334         607        468         684
Total North                   256          816      1,232         944       1,407
Other Regions                 138          368        619         672         608
Total Ghana /                 394        1,184      1,851       1,616       2,015
/1   Excluding State and seed multiplication farms.
14.       The use of mobile teams to buy and carry cotton is rather uneconom-
ical and requires a high degree of organization. This point is underscored
by the 1973/74 operations in the Upper and Northern Regions where five teams
took 191 working days to buy the crop, averaging five tons (i.e., less than a
truckload) per team day. In 1975, shortage of funds prevented timely buying
of the crop and collection was not completed until the end of April.
15.       Ginning.  CDB own ginneries at Wa and Tamale, each equipped with
a 3 x 40 saw Platt gin with a combined effective capacity of 2,700-3,000
tons over the about 140-day ginning season (December-April). The gin at
Wa is now being replaced with 90 saw Murray gin which will increase total
capacity to roundly 4,000 tons. Cotton grown in the south is ginned under
contract in another 90 saw gin owned and operated by Ghana Textile Manufac-
turing Company.
16.       The present ginning process is expensive (about t0.175 per kg
lint), mainly because of the high labor requirements and inadequate facil-
ities and management at the ginnery. GTMC ginning charges are equivalent
to 00.0825 per kg, less than half CDB's own costs.
17.       Storage.  CDB has about 1,200 tons covered storage available for
all purposes at Tamale and about 500 tons at Wa. This is inadequate as
presently utilized and losses of cotton seed have occurred as a result
of weather damage. There are no plinths or similar facilities at ginnery
sites for the storage of seed cotton.
18.       M4arketing and the Project.  Under the Project, seed cotton pro-
duction is projected to reach 16,100 tons in Year 5, and more than quadru-
ple present output in Year 3. Primary marketing arrangements would there-
fore be revised and additional storage and ginning facilities erected in
order to efficiently absorb and process the increased crop.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
19.       Primary Marketing.  There are a number of potentially suitable
ways in which the crop could be bought; progressive improvements would be
sought within the following broad outline. The Region would be divided
into marketing areas (ten initially), each containing approximately equal
extents of actual or potential cotton lands, and cotton marketing facili-
ties 1/ established by FSC at selected service centers in these areas.
As a guide, a 500-ton throughput per center per (12 week) marketing season
would be aimed for in Year 3.
20.       Buying Arrangements.  The one grade 'accept or reject' princi-
ple would be retained for as long as practicable relative to condition
and quality of seed cotton offerings. At foreseeable stages of develop-
ment cleanliness will be the most important factor, particularly as trash
content affects both ginning efficiency and outturn. A second grade might
have to be introduced at a later stage if it became clear that the single
price system was resulting in careless husbandry and, for example, an in-
crease in the proportion of stained but otherwise sound cotton.
21.       Buying would remain the responsibility of CDB staff working to
a schedule agreed with Project and FSC management; sellers dissatisfied
with a buyer's decision would be able to appeal to a Project produce in-
spector, whose decision would be final. FSC would supply salesmen and
(if necessary) a cashier. The cash sale basis would be maintained, actual
payment being made following weighing and acceptance and after the seller
had loaded or stacked his seed cotton as required by FSC supervisor, thus
minimizing direct handling costs.
22.       CDB would be responsible for ensuring the adequate cash funding
of buying staff.
23.       FSC would be responsible for transporting seed cotton to the
gin(s) at a premium partially reflecting the consequent savings in aver-
age transport and overhead costs by CDB. This practice would be care-
fully developed in order to preserve farmer incentives without disrupt-
ing ginnery storage and organization.
Ginning and Storage (Tables 14 - 16)
24.       Additional ginning capacity would be required by Project Year
2 and again during Project Year 4. This first requirement would be met
through the construction of a new ginnery at Zwarungu which would econom-
ically handle cotton from the eastern half of the Region as well as any
production from Tumu district in excess of the Wa ginnery capacity.
1/   Separated preinspection, buying and bagging areas, suitable plinths,
additional security fencing if necessary. See Annex 6.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
25.       By Year 3 Project production developments should provide suf-
ficient evidence as to whether the latter capacity increases should be
achieved by addition to the Zwarungu gin or replacement of existing ma-
chinery at Wa. Provision has been made for 2/128 minus one gin plants,
each of which would have a practical operating capacity of about 9,500
tons seed cotton, 1/ which would require a guaranteed supply of 500 tons/
week.
26.       Seed cotton awaiting ginning would be stored on plinths in a
reception area directly tributary to the gin suction room. Incoming vehi-
cles would be received over a weighbridge, there being a final checkweigh
process for seed cotton into the suction room. Reception areas would be
built at both Zwarungu and Wa.
27.       Five hundred tons covered storage suitable for lint bales and
seed would be erected at Wa and 1,500 tons at Zwarungu, with an additional
2,000 tons being constructed as dictated by the eventual gin development
program. Additional lint and seed output above this capacity would be
absorbed by increased movement rates to mills and export (or local
crushers).
D. Rice Marketing and Milling
28.       For many years rice supplies have been deficient in Ghana and import
controls have raised internal prices well above world market equivalents,
thereby equating supply and demand through high domestic prices. Conse-
quently market levels for paddy have been generally above the guaranteed
floor price; the Government-owned Rice Milling Unit, which operates the
floor pricing mechanism, has been only a residual buyer, despite a large
and underutilized investment in rice mills. Efforts to increase produc-
tion have included a higher floor price. Marketed output is now well
above the capacity of the private millers who had previously enjoved the
crean of the trade; RtU purchases have risen accordingly, viz:
1/   Based on 140 day season, 3.5 tons per hour, 80% utilization.
Manufacturers estimate capacity at about 4.6 tons seed cottor/tiour,
approximately equivalent to 13.5 kg/lint/saw/hour, but actual per-
formance depends on climate, condition and cleanliness of seed cot-
ton. In Ivory Coast similar machines process the equivalent of only
2.25 tons/hour (7 kg/lint/saw/hour) whereas in Nigeria nominally lower
capacity machines operate at 9 kg/lint/saw/hour. This factor would
not be critical, however, before Year 4.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Year               Tonnage               Price (¢ per ton)
1971/72              4,350                  98
1972/73              2,965                  98    - 122.50
1973/74              7,395                 122.50 - 151.90
1974/75             31,815 /L              177.60
/1   Of which 27,820 in Northern and 3,850 in Upper
Region.
29.       The floor price is now at roundly import substitution level (0178
v ¢167) while the controlled price for rice is very much higher (Z617 ex-
mill v 0400) and also relatively out of line with other food prices.  The
state of self-sufficiency which is believed to have been brought about by
the recent sharp production increases may therefore be more apparent than
real, although consumption has grown at only about 3% per annum in the
past and there are no reliable indicators to relative price and demand rela-
tionships.
30.       Milling.  Nearly half RMU nominal capacity is situated in the Upper
Region but of this only the Bolgatanga mill is operational, the mill at Wa
being unserviceable and that at Bawku inoperative due to lack of throughput.
In contrast, the larger mills functioning in the Northern Region (four RMU,
three private) are now operating near to capacity.
31.       Prior to the upsurge in paddy production the bulk of local rice
entering the market was milled in small village mills (0.3 to 0.8 tph), the
resultant product having a higher and more consistent quality than that from
the larger units. These village mills, of which there are an unrecorded num-
ber in the Upper Region, are mainly operated on a custom fee basis and still
carry on an active trade; most of the paddy is parboiled, recovery rates are
around 65% and milling charges about 01.00 per bag (012.25 per ton), the
miller also keeping any recovered bran. While there are no reliable data
available from larger private mills, their equivalent costs are likely to
be very much higher. Comparisons with previously reported figures are inap-
propriate because until recently all larger mills have operated below capac-
ity; however, operating costs at an RMU mill were recently computed at 035.49
per ton of paddy milled. 1/ Over the seven months, November 1974 through May
1/   WARDA recorded a five-month milling period over 1974/75 in which 5,150.4
tons were processed at a cost of 0182,789.82. A higher average cost
than this has been assumed in price calculations (Tables 7-8).



ANNEX 1
Page 9
1975 RMU mills at Tamale processed 7,182.5 tons of paddy and produced 34.6%
grade I (10% broken) and 64.3% grade II (40% broken) on a 62% recovery (63.3%
net). Grading accuracy is open to doubt, however, as subsequent visual in-
spection revealed a higher percentage of broken grains in both samples.
32.       Future milling developments are planned to match the continued
emphasis on increased production; consideration is being given to expanding
existing capacity by up to 26 tons per hour. 1/ General economic and finan-
cial considerations could make it more desirable to increase present effec-
tive capacity by resiting some existing mills, thus enabling a reduction in
the purchase program. Consideration is also being given to installing
parboiling equipment at RMU and Mencilo mills in Tamale: this could be
a far more practical step towards improving final milled quality than
introducing electronic sorting equipment, which is also proposed.
33.       Present deficiencies stem primarily from the almost unqualified
emphasis that is being put on production per se. This could lead to severe
rice marketing problems, even in a controlled environment. Urgent action
needs to be taken to improve product quality, which is now affected by the
following factors:
-    inadequate quality control at time of purchase,
resulting in mixed grades and varieties and a
high foreign matter content;
-    poor stock control after purchase resulting in
a comingling of previously separated lots;
-    inadequate mill management and maintenance in
a continuous running situation;
-    poorly conditioned grain entering the mill
process (paddy should be milled at a moisture
content of between 13% and 14%; during the
dry season some samples have been as low
as 4%).
34.       With existing equipment and under present milling conditions, ini-
tial paddy quality and buying standards probably have the greatest effect
on rice quality; strict purchasing grades for paddy should therefore be
established and enforced. World market prices are forecast to decline in
the face of increasing self-sufficiency among traditional importers, and
emphasis on paddy quality and cleanliness is thus in the best interest of
farmers if a reasonable return relative to potential market values is to
be achieved.
1/   RMU, six mills totaling 18 tph; private sector, three mills totalling
8 tph.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Rice Marketing and the Project
35.       Paddy production is expected to increase by about 150% under the
Project, with the marketed surplus reaching nearly 24,000 tons, equivalent
to the probable effective RMU capacity in the Region. There will, however,
be other output tributary to these mills from irrigated areas such as Vea,
although this may be counterbalanced by the capabilities of small village
units. In any case it is clear that there would be a very close balance
between supply and available milling capacity.
36.       The Project's Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit would
therefore conduct a survey of production milling and marketing so that an
adequate appraisal could be made of desirable future investment in process-
ing. The survey would be completed in PY2 and, apart from determining pro-
duction areas, would pay particular attention to market requirements, pres-
ent mill numbers and capacity, and the relative attractions and economics
of various mill types. FSC and RMU would cooperate in the design, conduct
and analysis of the survey, especially in regard to defining possible means
of mill procurement and ownership and the practicability of small integrated
production and processing ventures, possibly based on service centers. Any
resulting feasibility studies or investment proposals would be prepared by
FSC for submission to ADB, NIB, or other suitable institution.
E. Markets and Prices
37.       Historically, Ghana is a net importer of foodgrains and feedstuffs;
however, since the 1974 ban on rice imports and the increasing regulation
of oils and fats imports, only wheat remains at a significant level, 96,300
tons in 1973 (Table 3). Import and price controls, together with high du-
ties, probably mask the true situation, but there are signs that the overall
deficit may be easing and some individual commodities moving into apparent
market surplus.
38.       Expressed in constant terms, world market prices are forecast to
decline steadily over the life of the Project, to achieve a new stability
around 1980. Nevertheless, the residual nature of world trade means that
small changes in total supply or demand can have disproportionate effect
on prices, and thus there may be sharp seasonal variations about the trend.
Current and recent prices in Ghana are remarkably close to straight import
substitution levels and, where feasible, world price forecasts have been
used as a basis from which to calculate future farmgate prices.
39.       Local conditions will naturally have important short term effects,
but these cannot be forecast, while longer term considerations are catered
for in the yield figures and other assumptions made in crop budgets. In
determining individual crop values import duties or taxes have been omitted
from both financial and economic calculations on the grounds that it is
unreasonable to suppose that (a) in a situation of occasional deficiency



ANNEX 1
Page 11
prices would maintain a level equivalent to full import parity, or (b) in a
situation of general or increasing shortage consumers would be penalized by
the maintenance of duty (presently 50%). A shadow exchange rate 01.50 =
US$1.00 has been used in calculating economic prices; identifiable taxes
and commercial profits have been omitted.
40.       Because of the currently low average per capita availability and
consumption it is expected that quite an important proportion of incremental
food grain production will be consumed by growers; additional marketed quan-
tities are unlikely to have any important local effect on prices.
Crop Prices (Tables 5-13)
41.       Millet and sorghum are the staple cereals in the Upper Region, the
latter being used both for food and brewing into pito. Changing production
patterns are expected to result in the disappearance of the millet surplus
and a small increase in that of sorghum, largely from acceptable dwarf var-
ieties. Historically there have been only slight differences in value be-
tween the two grains; an import substitution value for sorghum has been
calculated and adjusted for millet to reflect slightly better storage prop-
erties.
42.       Maize, although nationally the most important, is grown on only
a small scale in the Region and does not benefit from the official price sup-
port system. Output in the east is mainly consumed green, that in the west
being taken through to grain. Total production in the country has achieved
a near balance to marginal surplus (small stocks being held by FDC) and price
forecasts have therefore been based on an import substitution basis in Tema/
Accra.
43.       Rice is expected to account for the largest proportion of marketed
incremental production although local consumption of rice is generally rather
low. Traditional preparation is by parboiling and handpounding (occasionally
machine milling); this product is very much preferred to that from the larger
mills, which enjoys only a small sale in the Region.
44.       A national self-sufficiency situation appears to have been achieved.
In order to assure this position it is expected that production efforts will
be maintained, the country becoming a net exporter in 1977, with 20% of mar-
keted output being exported in 1980. Prices have been calculated accordingly,
based on forecasts for Thai rice, 25-35% broken. This also implies an
improvement in milling performance (see paras 31 to 39), although export
quality rice could be made available by adjusting domestically marketed
grades.
45.       Groundnuts are an important cash and food crop; local processing
is relatively limited, however, as shea butter is preferred to groundnut
oil. Consequently the bulk of marketed production is bought for commercial
crushing at Tamale, Tema and Accra. There is a mill building at Bawku owned



ANNEX 1
Page 12
by GIHOC, but the machinery has been cannibalized to maintain other plants.
Nevertheless, there is a substantial unutilized crushing capacity in the
country which would easily absorb incremental output. Although projected
production considerably exceeds current soft oil imports and could be re-
garded as potential exports, groundnuts have been priced on an import sub-
stitution basis because of the overall chronic deficit in the vegetable
oil sector; in addition there is an important unsatisfied demand for pro-
tein for the growing poultry feed industry which could be met from local
crushings.
46.       Cowpeas are a widely traded and important cash crop and source of
protein. Forecasts have been based on postharvest prices in Kumasi; a
decline is expected through 1980, with a subsequent recovery in line with
general expectations for vegetable protein sources.
47.       Yam prices have been based on those reported in the Upper Region
and are expected to decline in sympathy with other starchy foods. No change
in marketed quantities is expected.
48.       Cotton is imported in considerable quantities (Table 3).  On cur-
rent production forecasts domestic output will still be an import substitute
in 1980, when demand from local textile manufacturers is expected to reach
about 100,000 bales (equivalent to 52,000 tons seed cotton). Although im-
ports are allowed in free of duty, local lint and seed cotton prices have
been set with scant regard to world levels on each other. Calculations for
future producer prices have been made on the assumption that a direct rela-
tionship with international levels will be developed and pricing inconsis-
tencies and subsidies removed. 1/ Cotton seed is presently exported and
seed cotton prices have been calculated on the basis of this practice con-
tinuing.
49.       Tomatoes are grown throughout the Region.  Demand is brisk, par-
ticularly for the main crop which comes between those of the other main
producing areas, being harvested during February/March. There is a GIHOC
tomato processing and canning plant at Pwalugu (Upper Region - 20 miles
from Bolgatanga), but this has hardly operated due to inability to compete
with prices on the fresh market; puree imports continue at over 1,000 tons
per year. Price data are almost nonexistent, but in 1974 GIHOC guaranteed
40.20/kg; this has been used as a basis for future prices, equating back to
40.14/kg after allowing for losses and packing.
1/   At IBRD forecast rates of inflation the present producer price, if
maintained unchanged, would equate to world levels in 1980.
December 8, 1975



G H A N A
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Seasonal Fluctuation of Wholesale Prices on Four Markets in the ULDer Region. 1973
Crop            J        February  March  April  May  June  July  Auu    September  October  November  December
---------------------------------------January - 100----------------------------------_________
Millet            100       89        116   117   127   141   150   155         146        133       124          126
Guinea Corn       100      111        113   117   128   129   150   157         177        167       143          131
Local Rice        100       98         92   105   119   126   123   124         119         98        99          105
Paddy             100      112        111   124   133   144   143   147         135        133       107          105
Groundnuts        100      108        134   135   154   172   194   204         208        213       168          160
Cow Peas          100      100        122   123   141   157   176   187         194        195       156          148
V   Bawku, Bolgatanga, Navrongo, Sandema                                                                                    eM
Source:  Economic and Planning Division, Ministry of Agriculture
September 9, 1975



=1
00     COr N.               0r -cC                      40               44 nO _               C.    NN-v.
Oi'
0.I
CI I
CfI        l N    _ .          v NN0O              Uno. U0°-                   CiO S4    04
t:    j      >  C.C                NO      NO           .r..0 a4;aa-; ;;e       ;   frN                 CO>«; s2  n
t ~ ~       ~     ~      ~       N             NN _nO UN  o v0 or     s          v.o t        n n_ UO U
0t0t ;;4 r.                                       CC NO _     ;t>  ; ; ;^a ; ;o. O            nO;;v    
00         to-N C                 0.0O° @    it Ni n                          rC;v iiv  i   o,   40 S nON''
-I
,O                                Nr-
rrr ar N nO  C; C;b          .            ;      j;;  r      r          iggsS                 S°
019 Jvv_gv s_r sr lgv   avv  
C.,,
NiI
.C  N                iSafJ,               iiSr°vv                                         ;                  >)e;;
i               lH___                _____                 _                         l__N                 r  
V 0   0 
1 U                ;O          _v    O ~ ON           4is0.. 1  .4            a ONrOs t              , too
_   I 
U 7               orv ocavo            .0n. _Oor vNnvug4 vro Nvo                                         v 
8 ~ ~        ~      ~ ~              O otoot                                    00;o_ _t8o          __ _v      r;;;s
01  3               to   '.0 N _.N            N       0              roN o             NO.   tN               4.00; ;S°.~     ii°
i.i *            N NVro   too -_                                    v00,  ro.0   corN,-               NO O      N 
00,                            000                  00_                    000                  0000:           aa<^ ;;X   ;   ir
000                        000                   000                    000 r000os  cv nr        s         0  _0
*1~ ~ ~ ~~ 0 |0  0n0                                                                           000                   0 ;¢ ;¢ s.^av        gN v iv
A}l ~           ~            &&oi ~                     g'                000                   CO 
Zl            .0               0    00 0t vi. cr.0 o r;s_;0              o. vi _ S0  0i        i 
3   I       00;0          01 r   0r;.'0         NI   00 _   .0 r; rO    00 r;  R°-. f0   . ^ 
.0            0 i¶    0000vJ<   o                       v00.00     0     r0 0             C    '-.0                    0  r
;~ ~ ~~~'ti -.  0"4.                                            -  0.4-                - a    0   a a,;  A s     4 ° R-Ci



'HANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Produce Imports
Raw                      I/   Oils and    Soft        Pa}ni      Tomato    Animal
Cotton     Rice       Wheat        Fats      Oils        Oil      puree       feeds
.................. .... a...... 06* ..........  tons  *..# aa     "a * 0      &      a. 
1968          3,500    27,300       12,400     26,300       na        na         na        4,200
1969          3,263    28,063       41.,500    27,200       na        na         na        4,200
1970         10,592    53,120       53,700     14jOOO       na        na         na       15,300
1971          6,495    35,098       34,600     21 ,900      na         na        na        2,900
1972          6,634    24,267       76,900     17,300        814      1,652        712     3,846
1973         11,768     53,572      96,300     30,100      1,404    12,391       1,133     5,842
1974          2,239    39,057       74.,568       na       1,316    10,195         899      3,172
)J Including flour in wheat equivalent.
g/ Including olive oil.
y/ Including concentrates and high ProteinNeal or cake.
January - June.
September 9, 1975                                                                                  0|



GHANA
UPPER REGICON AGRICULTURAL DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Food Balance Sheet (1980)
Storage         Seed      Family     Gross    Storage       Seed      Family       Surplus
losses      Retention  Consumption Production  losses   Retention  Consumption  Production
%           kg/ha         Kg      --------     - '000tons         -------
Millet                10             3          550        77.8      7.8          .5         69.5         -
Sorghum               12             5          400        72.8      8.7          .8         50.0        13.3
Maize                 15            20          100        19.5      2.9          .7         12.5         3.4
Rice                   2            80          100        41.7       .8         1.6         12.5        26.8
Groundnuts             2            70           70        28.8       .6         2.0          8.7        17.5
Yam                   20         2,000          125        54.8    11.0         28.2         15.6         -
Cowpeas               15             35          30        19.9      3.0         1.5          3.7        11.7
Bambara Beans         10             25          10         3.8       .4          .4          1.3         1.7
b  9
September 9j, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGICN AGRICULTURAL DEVmLaPNENT PROJECT
Farmigate Prices - Summary
Constant 1975 torus -er 1000 kia.
FINANCIAL (Ul$ - ¢1.154)                             ECCNOMIC (Ut -
Current  IU6                128~ Curet               ~98              98
Current 1976    1978-    198-0      a         Current     1976     127'      1980     18
Millet              220          187      180      173       173        254         238      225      216       216
Sorghum             210          184      177      170       170        249        234       221      212       212
Paddy Rice 1/       178          156      121      115       115        253         244      198      186       186
Groundnuts          390          444      348      293       4-11       530        603       477      407       560
Cowpeas             248          202      194      190       213        376        310       299      294       327
Maize               140          112      109      103       103        177         157      151      143       143
Yam                 134          122      114      106       106        190        173       162      150       150
Cotton              772          528      514      527       561        763         760      736       747      796
/ Import parity through 1976, thereafter it is assumed that exports provide following                              1
proportion of marketed production 1977-5%, 1978 - 1C%,1980 onwards 15g.
September 9, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DZEVEL0HT PROJECT
FORECAST CROP PRICES -  SROGHE
(Constant 1975 9 per 1000 kg)
FINANCIAL (US$ - 9 1.154)                     ECOI401IC (US$ - i 1.50)
1976       1978       1980      1985         1976       1978        1980       1985
FOB US Gulf (US$)  /               107         100         93        93
F.reight Insurance 2/               30          30         30        30
CIF Tema US$                       137        130         123       123
a -                              158        150         142       142         206        195         185         185
Landing Port Charges                 9           9          9         9            9          9          9           9
Cost of Bags - Bagging              15         15          15        15          15         15          15          15
Value Landed ./                    182         174        166       166         230         219        209         209
Transport from Tema                 44          44         44        44           44         44         44           44
Value Wholesale Bolgatanga         226         218        210       210         277         263        253         253
Transport from Servioe Center        5           5          5         5            5          5          5            5
Primary Marketing 4/                15         15          15        15          10          10         10          10
206        198        190       190         262         248        238         238
Losses J/                         22          21         20        20          28          27         26          26
Value Farmgate                     184         177        170       170         234         221        212          212
Millet (10% loss)                  187         180        173       173          238        225        216          216
/ Basis ITRD foreoast prioes for No.2 yellow Xl1o.
2/ Basis 8harber fratght 2 port disohArge.
iBasi 800 o m at f   0t055 per ton/is.carg
Inoluding margins and cost of seoondhand bags.
and storage losses at 12% of infield harvested vmight.
September 9, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELORMNT PROJECT
FORECAST CROP PRICES - RICE (Import Substitution)
(Oonstant 1975 0 per 1000 kg)
FINANCIAL (US$ - 0 1.1514)                     ECONONMC (US$ - i 1.50)--
1976       1978        1980      1985         1976        1978        1980       1985
FOB Bangkok US$ 1/                304         250         223        223
Freight                            60          60          60        60
CIF Tema US$                      364        310          283        283
- d                             420        358          327       327          546         465        425          425
Landing, Port Charges               9           9           9          9
Local Transport                     2           2           2          2
431        369          338       338          557        476         436          436
Transport from
Upper Region                     44          44          44         44          44                      44
Value *x-Mill                     387         325         294        294         513         432        392          392
Cost of Rioe Bags 2/               15         15           15         15          15          15         15           15
Paddy Equivalent                  234        195          181       181          3Qi         263        245          245
Milling Costs 3/                   50         45           40         40          45          40          35          35
184        150          141       141          269         223        210          210
Handlingp Transport                10           8           6          6          10           8           6           6
Value Market Oenter               174        142          135       135          259         215         204         204
Primary Marketing h/               15         15           15        15           10          10         10           10
Loss           i/                3           3           2          2           5           4           4           4
Value Farmgate                    156        124          118       118          244         201         190          190
/  Basis IERD forecast prices for Thai 259-35% broken.
/ Basis 63% reoovery through 1978, 65% thereafter.                                                                         m
3/ Assumes inoreasing efficiency.
/ Including transport and cost of secondhand bags.
Basis 2% infield harvested weight.
September 9, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGIOIN AGRICULTUR.AL DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
FORECAST CROP PRICES - RICE - EXPORT PARITY
(Constant 1975 Z per 1000 kg)
FINANCIAL (Us$ - 0 1.1544)                     ECONQMIC (US$ - % 1.50)
3.976      1978        1980      1985         1976        1978       1980        1985
FOB Bankok   1                     304         250        223        223
Freight                             60          60         60         60
Value CIF W. Africa                364         310        283        283
8s  Freight ?/                      20          20         20         20
Value FOB Tema                     344         290        263        263
-m                               397         335        303       303          516        435         395         395
Mwarfage, Hmdlirng                   3           3          3          3           3           3           3          3
394        332         300       300         513         432         392        392
Transport from Bolga                44          44         444         4           4          44    .   44           44
Value ex-Mi11                      350         288        256        256         469         388        348         348
Cost of Rioe Bags                   15          15         15         15          15          15         15          15
335        273         241       24.1         454        373         333        333
Paddy Equivalent  /                211         172        157        157         286         235        216         216
Milling aosts                       50          45          40       140          45           w          35         35
161        127         117       U7           241        195         181        181
Handling, Transport                 10           8          6          6          10           8           6          6
Value Market Center                151         115        511        111          231        187         175        175
iry Marketing  /                    15          15          15        15          10          10          10         10
Loss g/                          3           2          2          2           4           3           3          3
Value FarMgats                     133          98          94        94          217        170         162         162
V  Basis IMMD forecast prioes for Thai 25%-35% broken.
2/  Basis Tema/Lagos.
Basis 63% reoovery through 1978, 65% thereafter.
Inoluding transport and oost of secondhand bags.
Basis 2% infield harvested weight.
September 9, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGIOIN AGRICLrLTtRUJL DEVELORIENT PROJECT
FORECAST CROP PRICES -   MAIZE
(uonstnt lyt> r  per I0w Kg)
FINANCIAL (Us$ = % 1.15W)                      ECONOIaC (US  -   1.50)
1976       1978        1980      1985         1976        1978        1980       1985
FOB US Gulf (US$) 1/              115         11         105       105
Freight Insurance 2/               30          30         30         30
CIF Tema US$                      145        141         135       135
-g d167                                    163         156       156          218         212        203          203
Landing, Port Charges               9           9          9          9           9           9           9           9
Cost of Bags, Bagging              15          15         15         15          10          10         10           10
Value Landed                      191         187        180        180         237         231         222         222
Transport from Tema   /            44          44         44         44          44          44          44          44
Value Wholesale WA                147         143        136        136         193         187        178          178
Transport from Market
Center                           3           3          3         3            3           3          3            3
Primary Marketing 4/               15          15         15         15          10          10         10           10
Losses         -                17          16         15         15          23          23          22          22
Value Farmgate                    112         109        103        103         157         151         143         143
T Basis IMMD forecast prioes for No. 2 US Yellow Corn fob Gulf ports.
2/ Basis charter freight, discharge.
3/  Basis 800 km at e 0.055 per ton km.
/ Including margins and cost of secondhand bags.
/ Handling and storage losses at 15% of infield harvested weight.
Reptember 9, 1975



GHAU1A
UPPER RIGIOI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP_ EUT PROJECT
FORECAZT MOP x?.ICES - QTC2Ti2:D1UTs
(Constant 1975 0 per 1000 kg)
FfI1A,CIAL (US$ - 0 1.154)                      EC0N0IC (US$ - 0 1.50)
1976    1978           1980       1985         1976        1978       1.980       1985
C37 Europe US$ V                  459        374         326        430
Freight Adjustment                 20          20         20          20
CIF Tema                          439        354         306        410
e                               507        409         353        473          659        531         459          615
Landing Port Charges                9           9          9           9           9           9          9            9
516        418        362         482         668         540         468         624
Local Transport                     2           2          2           2           2           2           2           2
Value Tema/Accra                  518         420        364         484         670         542        470          626
Transport from Upper
Region 2/                       48          48         48          48          48          48         48           48
Value Market Center               470         372        316         436         622         494        422          578
Primary Marketing                  17         17          17         17            7           7          7            7
LooSeS                           9           7          6           8          12          10           8          U
Value - Farmgate                  444        348         293         411         603         477        407          560
' Basis IERD foreoast prioes for Nigeriangroundnuts CIF Europe.                                                            P1
/ Basis 800 Im at 0 0.06 per ton/km.
Including margins and cost of secondhand bags.                                                                          c
& Handling and storage losses at 2% of infield harvested weight.
September 9, 1975



GHANA
UP?E REGIOU AGRICULTUKtL DEVELOKE17T PROJECT
FORECAST CROP PRICES -  COJEAS
(Constant 1975 0 per 1000 kg)
FINANCL4L (Us$ - Z 1.154                       ECOUiGIaC (US$   0  1.50) 
1976       1978        1980      1985         1976        1978        1980       1985
Value Uholesale 1/                 315         305        300        330          409        396         390         429
Marketing 2/                        38          37         36          40          12          12          12         13
Transport  J                        30          30         30          30          30          30          30         30
Value Market Center                247         238        234         260         367         354        348         386
Primary Marketing _/                15          15         15          15          10          10         10          10
Lossesi/                         30          29         29          32          47          45          44         49
Value Farmgate                     202         194        190         213         310         299         294        327
/ Derived from 1970-74 Kumasi wholesale prices for first 6 post harvest months.
2/  Estimated at 12% of wholesale value, 1/3 of which an economio cost.
3   Basis 550 km.
2  Including cost of bags, assembly, finance.
15% of infield harvested weight.
September 9, 1975



GI-IATA
UPPER REGIONJ AGRICULTURAL DEV O,VEWT PROJECT
FORECAST CROP PRICES -  TANS
(Constant 1975 Z per IuU icg)
FINANCIAL (US$ - f 1.154)                     ECONOIIC (US$ - % 1.50)
1976       1978       1980       1985        1976       1978        1980       1985
Value Wholesale 1                  160        150         140       140         208          195        182        182
Marketing 2/                        16          15         14        14           5            5          5          5
Transport 3J                         4           4          4         4           4            4          4          4
W                        1140       131         122       122         199         186         173        173
Losses                            18          17         16        16          26           24         23          23
Value Farmgate                     122        1114        106       106         173          162        150        150
M  Derived from reported prioes, Upper Region 1970-74.
/ Basis 10% wholesale value, 1/3 of which an economic cost
3/ Ba is 65 km.
15% of infield harvested weight.
September 9, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELORMENT PROJECT
FORECAST CROP PRICES -   COMTON
(Constant 1975 0 per 1000 kg)
FINANCL4L (US$ - Z 1.154)                     ECONOI{C (US$ = 0 1.50)
1976       1978       1980       1985        1976        1978       1980       31985
CIV Accra US$ 1/               1,309       1,279      1,279      1,279
= 0                          1,511       1,476      1,1476     1,476       1,964       1,919      1,919        1,919
Port Handling                      9           9          9          9
Transport to Mill                   1          1          1          1
Price at Mill                  1,521      1,486       1,486      1,486       1,974       1,929      1,929        1,929
Transport from Gin                44          44         414        444          44 44                  4444
Ginning, Handling 2/             176         150        100        100          150        125          75          75
1,301      1,292      1,342      1,342        1,780      1,760      1,810        1,810
per ton Seed Cotton (38%)      494         491        510        510         676         669       '688          688
Purchasing, Transport 3/          40          35         35         35          35          30         30           30
1454       456        475        475          641        639         658         658
Value of Seed                     78          64         58         92         121         101         93          142
532        520        533        567          762        740         751         800
Farm to Market                     4           6          6          6            2          4           4           4
Value Seed Cotton                528         514        527        561          760        736         747         796
17   Basis IBRD forecast prices for Mexican Strict Middling 1-1/16" cif Liverpool - freight adjusted.
2/  Basis 1974/75 season costs, reducing with introduction of additional modern ginning equipment.                      X ;
3/  Basis 1974/75 season costs, reducing with more efficient use of available resources.                                a 
4~/  Basis IBRD forecast prices cif Europe for saleable seed (500 kg per 1000 kg seed cotton).  For
economic calculation all seed (600 kg per 1000 kg seed cotton) costed at export value.
September 9, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 14
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ginnery Costs
Wa              Zwarungu
1. Building and Civil Works
Site leveling                                   10,000          10,000
Fencing                                         14,000          14,000
Circulation roads - storage areas               30,000          30,000
Drains and sewerage                             10,000          10,000
Stores (3 x 500 m2) for seed cotton            115,000         115,000
Stores for lint                                130,000         170,000
Main buildings (525 m2)                        110,000         110,000
Plinths (4 x 300 m2)                            12,000          12,000
House (one only including furniture)            50,000          50,000
Office, weighbridge, reception                  25,000          25,000
Water supply                                    20,000          20,000
526,000         566,000
2. Equipment
Ginning and handling (2 x 128)                 270,000         270,000
Press                                          104,000         104,000
Electrical equipment and wiring                 40,000          40,000
Switchgear                                      29,000          29,000
Mains connection and transformer                50,000          50,000
Cyclones and aspiration                         37,000          37,000
Weighing equipment                              29,000          29,000
Lifting equipment hoists                        17,000          17,000
Fire detection and equipment                     5,000           5,000
Stores and workshop equipment                   20,000          20,000
601,000         601,000
3. Installation
Internal transport                               3,000           3,000
Sundry materials                                 5,000           5,000
Engineering and craftsmen                       56,000          56,000
Supervision and inspection                       6,000           6,000
70,000          70,000
TOTAL COSTS                                  1,197,000       1,237,000
December 11, 1975



ANNEX I
Table 1-
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRCJE(."
Ginnery Staffing
Permanent Staff
Position                      Number                Rate                 Cost
-e 7
Manager                           1                7.100                7,100
Shift foreman                     5                 1,800               5,400
Mechanic                          5                 1,200               3,f00
Electrician                      1                  1,200               1, 200
Fitter                            1                 1,200               1.200
Bookkeeper                        1                2,000                2,000
Weighbridge operator              1                 1,200               14200
Storekeeper                      2                 1,200                2.400
Clerk                            2                  1,000               2.000
Driver                            1                 7750                  '50
Watchman                          2                   700               1.400
Labor                             4                   700               2j00
Messenger                         1                   700                 700
31,T50
+ Superannuation                                  5.970    `5,720
Seasonal (160 days)
Ginnery buyer                    2                  1,000               2,000
Tally man                         4                   (;00              2,400
Scale clerk                      2                    coo               1,200
Shiftworkers - gin              24                                      9.0 <400
- seed cotton                           55 0             19 , 600
- lint             18                   2J0               6,300
- seed              9                   ZA()              3,150
Watchman                          4                   5.0               1,520
37,370
+ Superannuation                                4,r470    42,040
e  77.760
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 16
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated New Ginnery Operating Costs
Plant and Buildings                                 e
Amortization                                    180,000
Maintenance and insurance (5%)                   60.000                 240,000
Ginnery Staff
Permanent                                        35,720
Temporary seasonal                               42,040                  77,760
Share of Administrative overheads
(10% of gross paid costs)                                             21,000
338,760
Variable (per ton seed cotton)
Energy                                                8
Baling materials                                      10
Interest                                             15
Miscellaneous                                         5
¢    36
Tonnage
Costs per ton ginned - 2,000 tons               j   205
4,000 tons                  120
6,000 tons                   92
8,000 tons                   78
10,000 tons                   70
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 2
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm and Crop Development
Contents                                                Page No.
A.        The Environment                                                   I
B.        Agronomy                                                          3
C.        Production                                                       16
D.        Farm Mechanization                                               18
Figure 1  Soil Capability for Mechanized Cultivation
Table  1 Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Bawku
Table  2  Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Navrongo
Table  3  Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Wa
Table  4  Crop Labor Requirements
Table  5  One Hectare Budget for Millet/Sorghum Mixed
Table  6  One Hectare Budget for Dwarf Sorghum
Table  7  One Hectare Budget for Maize
Table  8  One Hectare Budget for Rice
Table  9  One Hectare Budget for Groundnuts
Table 10  One Hectare Budget for Yam
Table 11  One Hectare Budget for Cowpeas
Table 12  One Hectare Budget for Cotton
Table 13  One Hectare Budget for Tomatoes
Table 14 Spraying Costs
Table 15 Crop Production Projection






ANNEX 2
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm and Crop Development
1.        A general description of the Project area and the farming systems
practiced is contained in Annex 4. The influence of the environment on crop
production and the potential for yield improvements with regard to research
undertakings in the area are discussed below.
A. The Environment
2.        Climate.  Average annual rainfall varies from 950 to 1050 mm per
annum with 85% falling between mid-April and mid-September. While the pat-
tern is well suited for annual crop production, distribution is often erra-
tic, with harmful consequences on crop yields. This usually results from
insufficient rains in April and June, too heavy rains in August or insuffi-
cient rain in September, drought stress being compounded by excessive run-
off and poor soil moisture-holding capacity. Distribution is most erratic
in the east; this is displayed in the more regular distribution at Wa com-
pared with Navrongo and Bawku in the rank probability analyses of Tables 1
through 3.
3.        Technology introduced through the Project would serve to lessen
drought stress to some extent. In particular, contour bunding and tie
ridging would be encouraged, while work-oxen development would permit more
timely land preparation in adverse seasons. Expected crop yields resulting
from the Project have, however, been risk discounted for adverse weather con-
ditions.
4.        Soils.  Upper Region soils are formed mainly from granites and
tend to be coarse-textured and stony. Inherent fertility is low and their
natural abrasiveness is frequently augmented by laterization. Valley soils,
which range from sandy clay loams to silty clays, have higher natural fer-
tility but are more difficult to work and subject to seasonal waterlogging
and floods; coupled with the presence of tsetse and simulium flies 1/ in the
larger valleys this has concentrated agriculture on the more easily worked
upland soils.
1/   The sectors of sleeping sickness and riverblindness respectively.



ANNEX 2
Page  2
5.        Groundwater laterites occur over much of the Region and limit the
potential for intensive cultivation particularly mechanical tillage; these
limitations appear to be well recognized by local farmers. Cultivation
constraints are further compounded in the uplands by severe risks of sheet
erosion. Excessive runoff can result, especially during the first rains
a fter the drv season which come as thunderstorms and line squalls preceded
by a 5-10 minute period of high winds and frequent dust storms.  Conspicuous
examples of sheet erosion are commonly seen; with overall neglect of soil
conservation measures along with rising population pressure, these dangers
wiLl increase.
6.        Even the best upland soils have poor chemical properties; reason-
able crop yields can only be expected with judicious use of fertilizers.
Nitrogen and phosphates are the principal deficiencies: this is supported
bv good yield responses in trials and demonstration plots, as well as by
an established and significant trade in fertilizers within the farming com-
munity itself. 1/ Nitrogen response can be somewhat variable since the free-
draining soil is low in organic matter and poor in its ability to hold inor-
ganic fertilizers. Split dressings of nitrogen in moist soil immediately
after rainfall are necessary, as well as efficient utilization of farmyard
manure.
7.        Responses to potassium, on, the other hand, have not been identi-
fied; the soils appear to be adequately supplied and maintained bv the ash
of crop residues after the annual burn. Although continuous check should
be made for deficiency symptoms, these are unlikely to occur during Proj-
ect implementation and no allowance for potassium has been included in the
farm budgets. Some trial results have shown that potassium application
can reduce yields by upsetting the ratio of exchangeable Mg and K in the
topsoil.
8.        Secondary nutrient deficiencies, particularly sulphur and boron,
are possible and could explain the somewhat low yields often achieved in
trials and demonstration plots. Limited research investigation is rather
inconclusive, however, since a sulphur trial with groundnuts in northern
Ghana showed a negative yield response to sulphur applications at 15 and
30 kg/ha, while older records have recorded significant groundnut yield
responses to single superphosphate over triple superphosphate. CDB have
identified sulphur deficiency in cotton when nitrogen and phosphorous
were applied in the form of 20.20.0 compound fertilizers.
9.        While this subject would require further investigation during
Project implementation, it is likely that sulphur would be suitably sup-
plied using single superphosphate as a basal dressing. Calcium ammonium
'J   3,500 tons were sold in Upper Region in 1974.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
nitrate is favored over sulphate of ammonia due to its less harmful effects
on soil pH. Boronated superphosphate could be used for cotton if deficien-
cies are identified.
B. Agronomy
Millet (mixed with Sorghum)
10.       Millet is the prime staple of the Region and is grown both as an
early and a late crop, the former yielding when food stocks are at their
lowest.
11.       Despite the importance of millet, prospects for substantial yield
improvements are low. Limited results are available from OAU/STRC/JP 26
regional trials and from variety trials undertaken at Nyankpala in 1966/67
in cooperation with the Rockefeller Millet Improvement Program in India.
Despite promising results elsewhere, 1/ variety trials in northern Ghana
have been disappointing and inconclusive and no recommendations can be
made.
12.       Traditionally grown millet is usually planted in mixed stands,
principally with guinea corn sorghum (see para 14 below). Treatment with
household waste, stock manure and night soil is widely practiced. Already
about 10,000 hectares receive some dressing of inorganic fertilizers; the
latter practice is expected to increase and would be encouraged by the
Project with more widespread availability of farm services. Although low
in absolute terms, attractive yield responses have been demonstrated at
Nyankpala from organo mercurial seed dressings and fertilizer application,
nitrogen being applied at planting and four to six weeks subsequently.
The proposed treatment is as follows:
1/   The Nigerian variety Ex-Bornu has frequently yielded over 4,000 kg/ha
at Samaru.



ANNEX 2
Page  4.
Treatment               Unimproved          Improved
Variety - Millet               Local             Local
- Sorghum             Local             Local
Seed Rate                      7 kg/ha           7 kg/ha
Seed Dressing                  None              Dieldrex A
Fertilizer
- N                   None               75 kg CAN
- P                   None               75 kg SSP
Yield (kg/ha)
- Millet               350                 550
- Sorghum              350                 650
Sorghum
13.       Background.  Most of the traditionally grown sorghums are of the
open headed guinea race types with loose, often pendulous penicies. Both
white and red grained types occur, the former being favored for 'tuo' (por-
ridge) while the latter is used for 'pito' brewing. Sorghum stalks, which
are around 5 m high, are important for thatching, fencing and as a source
vf fuel.
14.       Most sorghum is grown on the compound farm and is usually inter-
propped with millet and cowpeas. Planting takes place during May/June
after establishment of the early millet crop; the latter is usually
thinned to 3-5 plants per station on ridges spaced 90 cm apart while
the sorghum is thinned to 1 plant per station. Two or three weedings and
earthing ups are normally carried out. The crop flowers at the onset of
the dry season in late September and matures on residual soil moisture by
late November.
15.       Pests and Diseases.  Sorghum midge (Contarinia sorghicola) is a
serious pest throughout the Region; eggs are deposited in the spikelets at
flowering time and the white larvae which hatch out feed on the young seeds
causing yield losses of up to 50%. Control can be effected by spraying with
Sevin at planting and again ten days later. Other insect pests include stem-
borers (principally Sesamia and Coniesta), army worms and shoot flies, but
are of little importance under present systems of agriculture. The para-
sitic weed, Striga hermonthica, is believed to cause yield losses of over
10% and is particularly associated with low fertility areas. Bird damage
can cause heavy losses, particularly on early maturing varieties, when no
alternative grains or cereals are available to the birds.



ANNEX 2
Page  5
16.       The most important disease is covered smut (Sphacelotheca) which
is estimated to cause yield losses of up to 10%; this can be largely con-
trolled by seed dressing. Other diseases include leaf spots (Cercospora),
rusts (Puccinia), eye spot (Glacercospora) and sooty strips (Ramulispora),
but are of little economic importance.
17.       Varieties.  Although numerous variety trials have been undertaken
in the past, research recommendations at this stage are somewhat inconclu-
sive. Varietal assessment has tended to use grain yield as the primary in-
dicator although taste and straw yields will be decisive factors in local
acceptability. In addition, the improved early maturing photo-insensitive
varieties of sorghum, which offer considerable advantages in terms of yield
potential and drought avoidance, usually produce their grain under wet, humid
conditions. Grain quality can be severely reduced by mold; successful breed-
ing for mold resistance is underway in northern Nigeria.
18.       Presently recommended improved varieties include the Nigerian SK-
MDW, a late dwarf variety of around 110 days to flowering, and the Nigerian
"Naga White" of around 80 days to flowering. Limited trial results in Ghana
have shown promising yields of over 2,500 kg/ha, but the somewhat scant rec-
ords also report demonstration results where subsLantially lower yields of
the improved varieties have been achieved, in some instances lower than
local selections of the long duration varieties. 1/ Although Naga White
has proved acceptable for tuo it is not favored for pito brewing, which is
the major outlet for sorghum grain in the Region; straw yield is also sub-
stantially lower than the local varieties.
19.       The outstanding yields achieved with improved varieties in re-
gional variety trials in West Africa, 2/ together with breeding progress
for disease and striga resistance, will inevitably lead to their accept-
ance. Until these yield increments are clearly and continuously demon-
strated to farmers, however, it is likely that taste preferences and impor-
tance of straw yield will prevent wide scale adoption in the short term.
A proposed treatment under the Project is as follows:
1/   It was not possible to 'screen' these records according to husbandry
and supervision variations.
2/   Hybrid yields of over 7,000 kg/ha have been achieved at Samaru.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Treatment               Unimproved          Advanced
Variety                        Local             Dwarf
Seed Rate                      8 kg/ha           10 kg/ha
Seed Dressing                  None              Dieldrex A
Fertilizer
- N                   None               150 kg CAN
- P                   None               150 kg SSP
Yield (kg/ha)                   750               1,800
Maize
20.       Background.  Maize is an unimportant crop in the eastern sector of
the Region where it is cultivated mainly in crop mixtures in swampy areas
primarily as a vegetable crop for eating green; in the west, however, it is
grown by many farmers as a partial alternative to early millet. Most produc-
tion is consumed on the homestead, largely as a green crop, and there is no
significant surplus marketed as grain.
21.       Pests and Diseases.  Stemborers (principally Sesamia and Coniesta)
can be serious but are more important in second season crops grown in south-
ern Ghana. Other insects do not appear to be major field pests though local-
ized attacks of army worm (Spodoptera) can cause considerable damage to maize
seedlings. High storage losses occur, however, from weevil damage (Sito-
philus and Tribolium spp). Disease problems include rust (Puccinia poly-
sora), leaf blights (Helminthosporium turcicum and H. maydis), maize streak
virus, grey ear rot and downy mildew; the former are becoming increasingly
controlled by breeding resistant genes into recommended varieties. Striga
hermonthica is a common weed pest in the area.
22.       Varieties.  Due to the limited importance of maize in northern
Ghana, breeding work has been mainly directed towards southern conditions,
and varieties treated in regional trials have shown disappointing perform-
ance in the north. While these results can be partially explained by more
reliable rainfall in the south, trial supervision and lack of attention to
northern conditions are almost certainly as important. In particular, com-
posite varieties bred at Kumasi (Ghana Composites 2, 4 and Golden Crystal)
have performed well at comparable latitudes in Nigeria 1/ and in more
1/   For example, Ghana Composite 4 was the highest yielder (7,558 kg/ha)
in OUA/STRC/JP 26 uniform maize trials in Samaru in 1972.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
northerly latitudes in Upper Volta. Local taste preferences, however,
are presently limiting large scale adoption of composites in southern
Ghana, where local varieties command premium prices due to their higher
pounding qualities and the reduced fermentation period required in prep-
aration of the local maize cakes, 'kenkey.' 1/
23.       In view of the low research backing for advanced technology in
northern Ghana, problems of taste preferences for home consumed maize and
present overproduction in Ghana (3,000 tons were exported in 1974), large
scale maize development is not envisaged under the Project. New technology
is included, therefore, largely to reduce overall area required for home
consumed crops. A summary of the proposed technology is given below:
Treatment               Unimproved         Advanced
Variety                       Local             Composite 4,
Crystal Yellow
Seed Rate                     20 kg/ha         25 kg/ha
Seed Dressing                 None             Dieldrex A
Fertilizer
- N                   None             150 kg CAN
- P                   None             150 kg SSP
Yield (kg/ha)                   750             2,000
Rice
24.       Background.  Rice is grown by 15-20% of the Region's farmers, pre-
dominantly as a cash crop. Production is mainly in the hands of hand culti-
vators and is principally confined to lowland valley soils where natural
rainfall is supplemented by lateral moisture accumulation. Some large
scale mechanical cultivation is practiced in the larger valleys mainly in
the western and southern parts of the Region.
1/   This effect is mitigated in the case of cash crop maize production
since an attractive guaranteed purchase price (which does not extend
into northern Ghana) is offered by the Grains and Legumes Development
Board. As a result GLDC has accumulated a stock of around 25,000
tons of maize which it is unable to sell. Successful work is under-
way, however, on new methods of preparing traditional dishes with
improved varieties.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
25.       Rice is planted in June or July and is direct seeded by broad-
casting or dibbling. Two weedings are normally undertaken though these
are often late or inadequate due to difficulties in identifying weed spe-
cies. At harvest, the rice is tied into bundles and stacked in a central
area for drying and threshing. Locally consumed rice, presently a minor
constituent of the diet reserved for special occasions, is parboiled before
milling. Surplus over domestic needs is generally sold as paddy immediately
after harvest; parboiling is not practiced prior to commercial milling in
Ghana.
26.       Pests and Diseases.  Pest damage appears to be of little economic
importance though stemborers and armyworms are occasionally troublesome
and bird damage can be serious prior to harvesting. Common diseases are
blast (caused by Pyricularia oryzae), brown blight (Cochliobolus niyabeanus)
and stack burn (Trichoconis padwickii); presently recommended improved var-
ieties display blast resistance and most diseases are checked with organo
mercurial seed dressings.
27.       Varieties.  Traditional upland varieties are of Oryza glaberrima
mixed types but these have been largely replaced by Oryza sativa varieties
introduced since World War II. Previously recommended varieties C4-63 and
IR5 are now being replaced by IR20 which has good resistance to blast and
drought and lower susceptibility to lodging. Recent trials have shown IR442
to consistently outyield IR20; this variety is being multiplied for release
next year. Research is continuing for high yielding varieties of short and
long duration to cater for varying conditions of slope and seasonal inunda-
tion.
28.       Lowland rice trials under controlled water conditions have fre-
quently recorded high yields in excess of 5,000 kg/ha. Farmer yields are
substantially lower, however, and despite husbandry and land management
improvements under the Project, advanced yields over a wide range of con-
ditions are expected to average around 2,200 kg/ha. Proposed treatments,
involving seed dressing, basal application of nitrogen and phosphorus
followed by nitrogen top dressing at the booting stage, are summarized
below:



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Treatment               Unimproved         Advanced
Variety                  Local & Improved        IR442
Seed Rate                    80 kg/ha            90 kg/ha
Seed Dressing                 None               Dieldrex A
Fertilizer
- N                   None              150 kg CAN
- P                   None              150 kg SSP
Yield (kg/ha)                  900               2,200
Groundnuts
29.       Background.  Groundnuts are grown by most farmers, largely as a
cash crop, and enjoy a steady trade to the south for crushing due to their
high oil content (45-50% by weight). In traditional cultivation systems,
groundnuts are usually grown in mixed stands with cowpeas or bambara beans
and are often associated with poor soils unsuitable for grain production
due, for example, to striga infestation.
30.       Both ridge and flat plantings are commonly practiced by farmers,
the operation usually being undertaken during June once planting of the
main cereal crops has been completed; plant spacings of 1 to 1.25 meters
between ridges and 25-30 cm between plants are practiced. Fertilizers are
presently applied to about 25% of the groundnut area, but application rates
are low and rarely exceed 50 kg per ha of single superphosphate.
31.       Pests and Diseases.  Rosette (a virus disease transmitted by aphids)
is common in the Region but can be effectively controlled by close spacing
which allows easy movement of aphid predators from plant to plant. Cercospora
(leaf spot) and Sclerotium (wilt) are also common but their incidence is
generally reduced by seed dressing and early plant establishment. Provi-
sional fungicidal spray recommendations for Cercospora control are available
but their technical and economical viability under Upper Region conditions
has yet to be ascertained. Direct pest damage appears to be unimportant
though termites are occasionally troublesome; heavily infected areas can
be treated with Aldrin dust.
32.       Varieties.  Varietal selection in northern Ghana has been directed
towards high oil content, pest and disease resistance, full season maturity
(130 to 140 days) and a long dormancy period. Trial results at Manga over
five years have recorded high yields (1,250 kg/ha shelled nuts) from the
Chinese variety Lung Tou Yotao and the Philippine variety Tirik, the latter
being preferred due to its higher oil content (50%), longer dormancy and
maturity (130 days), and high shelling percentage (73%).



ANNEX 2
Page 10
33.       The proposed level of improved technology would include thorough
seedbed preparation with incorporation of farmyard manure whenever possible,
followed by timely planting shortly after the first rains. Single super-
phosphate at the rate of 150 kg/ha should be applied in a band in the old
furrows before splitting to make new ridges. Seed would be of the variety
Tirik which should be shelled shortly before planting and dressed with
Dieldrex A. Seed spacing should be two every 15 cm (6") on ridges spaced
75 cm (30") apart 1/ giving a seed rate of 70 kg/ha. Two to three weed-
ings should be carried out during the period from planting to pegging or
until sufficient foliage cover has developed to suppress weed growth.  A
summary of the proposed technology is given below.
Treatment               Unimproved          Advanced
Variety                        Local            Tirik
Seed Rate                        50                90
Seed Dressing                  None             Dieldrex A
Fertilizer
- P                   None              150 kg SSP
Yield (kg/ha)                   450               900
Yams
34.       Background.  The white yam is a minor crop in the Upper Region.  It
is found mainly in the western sector where it is grown in small mixed
stand plots almost entirely for consumption.
35.       The crop is usually grown on mounds which are constructed at the
end of the wet season. Planting is by setts sectioned from harvested tubers
or from seed tubers that have developed following careful harvesting of an
earlier crop; planting extends from December to March. The mounds are
usually protected by a vegetative mulch. The vine sprouts and develops
with the onset of the rains and is usually trained to climb on stakes of
sorghum or millet stalks. Weeding is important during the first three
months; two to three weedings are usually undertaken and the mounds re-
built to replace soil washed down by rainfall. Some harvesting is carried
1/   Research results show that 60 cms (2') ridge spacing yields around 25%
higher than 90 cm (3') spacing. A 75 cms (30") spacing is recommended
due to the practical problem of narrow ridge formation.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
out in August, when tubers are carefully cut and removed, leaving the crown
and vine undisturbed, from which will grow a second, smaller seed tuber; the
main harvest period, however, is during November and December following the
drying and dying back of the vines.
36.       Pests and Disease.  The main pest is the yam beetle (Heteroligus
meles) which bores into the tuber damaging the growing point and reducing
tuber size. Nematodes (mainly Scutellonema bradys) can seriously reduce
yields and allow entry of fungi which reduce the value and keeping quality
of tubers; the nematode problem is aggravated by using already infested
tubers as planting material. Dieback, a disease causing premature drying
of tubers, is associated with the incidence of nematodes. "Shoestring" can
also reduce yields; the causal agent is unidentified at present but the dis-
ease is less common than dieback.
37.       Varieties.  Due to its vegetative propagation, no improved varie-
ties of yam have yet been developed. However, successful development of a
yam seed germination technique at IITA, Nigeria, means that there is a very
high prospect of improved varieties becoming available in the near future.
38.       Present yields are low in the Region (around 4-5 tons/ha) with
corresponding small tuber size; a gradual decline in yields is also appar-
ent particularly in areas where increasing population pressure has reduced
fallow duration. Research results have, however, shown good responses to
nitrogen application when used in conjunction with husbandry improvements
including staking, higher setts weights (ideally 0.5 kg sectioned from
tuber tops) and sett treatment with Aldrin 2.5 prior to planting; a recom-
mended fertilizer application rate is 250 kg/ha CAN applied during May. 1/
A marked reduction in nematode damage may also prove possible by a propaga-
tion technique using vine cuttings which has been developed at IITA. A
summary of the proposed technology is given below:
Treatment               Unimproved         Advanced
Variety                       Local             Local
Setting Rate               2,000 kg/ha         4,000 kg/ha
Sett Dressing                 None             Aldrin 2.5
Fertilizer - 1                None              250 kg CAN
Yield (kg/ha)                  4,000            9,000
1/   The plant relies on food stored in the sett for the first 14-20 weeks.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
Cowpeas
39.       Background.  Cowpeas occupy an important place in traditional
diets and are a significant source of income for local farmers. Both seeds
and leaves are consumed while surplus production is usually marketed soon
after harvest in November when local tax payments are due. The crop is
seldom planted sole and normally forms Dne part of a number of crop mix-
tures of varying complexity; under these circumstances yields vary widely,
but due to the range of insect pests to which it is susceptible, the crop
rarely averages more than 200 kg/ha. Intercropping offers some protection
against insect attack and the crop provides valuable ground cover and pro-
tection against erosion.
40.       Pests and Diseases.  Cowpeas are susceptible to a wide range of
pests which become especially important under intensified production. Major
pests include leaf eating beetles (Ootheca mutabilis), which can cause com-
plete defoliation and transmit cowpea yellow mosaic; Meruca testulalis, which
causes damage to flowers, pods and seeds; Alcidodes leucogrammus, a weevil
which causes stem girdling; and Eucrysops malathema, the flower and pod moth.
Storage damage is mainly caused by bruchids and weevils. Local varieties
usually show reasonable resistance to diseases, of which Cercospora leaf
spot and cowpea mosaic virus are probably the most important.
41.       Variety.  Little work has been undertaken on cowpeas in Ghana and
attempts elsewhere to introduce improved varieties have usually faced diffi-
culties of taste preferences or cooking qualities. Local selections from
Ghana and limited trials with imported varieties have shown promising yields
of over 2,000 kg/ha. While potential from varietal improvements is consid-
erable, the intensity of insect attack is such that substantial yield re-
sponses would result from pest control with the varieties presently used
in the Region; since ULV applications have proved successful in Nigeria
this would provide an obvious link with cotton production (see para 47
below). Suggested treatment is as follows:
Treatment               Unimproved         Advanced
Variety                       Local             Local
Seed Rate                     15 kg/ha          25 kg/ha
Fertilizer - P                None              50 kg SSP
Sprays                        None              10 liters Endosulphan
in 4 applications
Yield (kg/ha)                 200               900



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Cotton
42.       Background.  Traditionally cotton has been a minor crop in Ghana
with production limited to hand spinning and weaving of village cotton tex-
tiles. Commercial production was started in 1968 following establishment
of the Cotton Development Board (CDB) and realized a gradual expansion in
area to 4,400 ha in 1974/75, of which around 1,300 ha was grown in the Upper
Region. To boost production, the seed cotton price was increased drama-
tically in 1974 from ¢0.08 to 00.35 per lb (00.18 to 00.77 per kg); esti-
mated 1975 planting in the Upper Region is roundly 2,500 ha though farmer
demand is well in excess of this figure.
43.       Seed cotton yields have been disappointing in the Upper Region
with an overall average of under 500 kg/ha during the period 1970-1974.
The main cause centers on untimely operations, namely in planting, sup-
plying and weeding, but particularly in distribution of seed, fertilizer
and insecticides; ti se problems are likely to be compounded following
expanded CDB operations unless major organizational changes occur in the
input delivery system.
44.       Pests and Diseases.  The main cotton pests in the Region are
red bollworm (Diparopsis costanea), American bollworm (Heliothis armigera),
spiny bollworm (Pectinophora gossypiella); leaf rollars (Sylepta derogata),
and cotton stainers (Dysdercus spp). Also occurring are red spiders
(Titranychus telarius), cotton aphids (Aphis gossypii) and jassids
(Empoasca devostans). The leaf eating Cosmophilia and false codling
moths (Cryptophlebia leucotreta) occur increasingly and the previously
used Endrin (12%)/DDT (US) has not proved fully effective. Research on
the best complex insecticidal formula is underway and good results have
been achieved with a DDT/PCC/methyl parathion formulation sprayed at 12.5
1/ha over six sprays.
45.       Bacterial blight or black arm disease (Xanthomonas malvacearum)
is endemic but largely suppressed by using resistant varieties. Pink boll
rot (Glomeselloc gossypii) and damping off (Rhizoctonia) are largely con-
trolled by seed dressing.
46.       Varieties.  The originally used variety, Allen 333, has degener-
ated from frequent multiplication, and is gradually being replaced by BJA
592, a product of IRCT research in Mali. BJA 592 is a medium staple 1/
cotton grown on a strong tall plant that is robust enough to withstand
low rainfall conditions. Seed is multiplied by CDB at Nyankpala research
station (base multiplication) and on selected farms in Wa district.
1/   Fiber length 33/32 to 34/32 inches.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
47.       The Project would aim to establish a network of advanced cotton
producers capable of applying husbandry practices appropriate to intensive
cotton production. This would involve early planting, sole cropping, high
fertilizer application and pest control using ULV sprayers; the latter tech-
nique has been successfully introduced to smallholders elsewhere in Africa
and offers considerable advantages of maintenance and speed without requir-
ing ready access to a supply of water. The crop would be planted during
the first half of June at a spacing of 75 x 20 cm giving a plant population
of 125,000 - 150,000 per ha after thinning, with an average two plants per
hole remaining. Basal fertilizer dressings would be followed by nitrogen
top dressing at the end of first weeding four weeks after planting; two
to three weedings and reridging would be required. Since spotting of eggs
demands considerable skill, a precautionary spray would be given five weeks
after germination and continued at ten-day intervals for as long as six
weeks. Improved quality at harvest would be encouraged by timely picking
and use of cotton picking bags. A summary of proposed technology is given
below:
/1
Treated                   Improved           Advanced
Variety                      BJA 592           BJA 592
Seed Rate                    45 kg/ha          45 kg/ha
Fertilizer - N            190 kg 20.20.0       150 kg CAN
- P             60 kg SA            150 kg Boronated
Superphosphate
Spray                       High volume        ULV
Yield (kg/ha)                  600             900
/1   Existing cotton growers.
Horticultural Crops
48.       Background.  Dry season vegetable production is practiced by about
2,000 farmers in the Region; important crops include tomatoes, onions, maize,
and peppers. Areas cultivated per grower are small, however, and while pro-
viding important ingredients for the local diet, there is no substantial and
regular regional export.
49.       There is considerable scope for developing horticultural crops,
both in terms of yield per hectare and through expansion of dry season cul-
tivation. This is expected to prove highly attractive to growers since
there are few competing demands on labor, while sound husbandry practices
could generate valuable returns; about 800 ha of irrigated gardens would be



ANNEX 2
Page 15
developed by the Project's Land Development Department. While this would
include a range of crops suitably rotated, for simplicity the potential ben-
efits from this development are expressed in the form of tomato production
which has a ready outlet.
50.       Farmers would be advised on sound rotation to reduce nematode
build up from successive plantings of tomatoes. Management practices would
include proper nursery establishment and transplanting, repeated fertilizer
application at rates up to 900 kg/ha, and treatment against pests and dis-
eases. Advanced treatment techniques such as soil fumigation would be in-
vestigated during the Project. Existing tomato yields are low at around 7.5
tons/ha, compared with a potential of over 25 tons; a summary of recommended
practices is given below:
Treatment                 Improved           Advanced
Variety                      Local                 /1
Seed Rate                    50 g/ha          25 g/ha
Fertilizer - N               50 kg CAN         150 kg CAN
- P              200 kg SSP        500 kg SSP
-K                50 kg MP         250 kg MP
Pests /2                     None             DDT 5% dust,
at 35 kg/ha
after trans-
planting or
Sevin spray
Diseases                                      Dithane M-45
every 5 days
at 2 kg/ha
Yields (kg/ha)                  7.5                15
/1   Recommended varieties include M/H6/1, Fireball, Early
Pusa, Dwarf, Roma Marglobe, Indian River, Pearl Harbor,
plus a range of local selections. Most varieties, but
more particularly the exotics, find it difficult to
set fruit during February/March due to high night tem-
perature; planting should be planned to avoid this.
/2   Full spray treatment expected on 25% of total area.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
Other Crops
51.       Bambara nuts are an important source of protein in local diets,
and have the advantage of being able to produce reasonable yields in grav-
elly soils. Both bunch and spreading types occur, of which the latter are
lower yielding but produce a preferred darker-colored bean; black beans,
which are occasionally found, are highly prized and used in rituals.
52.       Little is known of bambara nut and its potential for improvement.
However, research is being conducted at the University of Ghana which may
result in technical recommendation during Project implementation.
53.       Kenaf production in the Region has been promoted by the Bast Fiber
Development Board 1/ whose operations extend presently to about 400 farmers
growing less than one acre of kenaf each. They are located mostly in the
eastern sector, but good potential is said to exist in Tumu and other parts
of the west. The Board supplies inputs and sometimes cultivation assistance,
paid for at delivery of the crop. As sufficient details of the economics
of fiber production are not yet available, no recommendations can be made
at this stage as to whether the Project should assist in kenaf production.
Present yields obtained with an application of 200 kg 15/15/15 fertilizer
per hectare are below two tons per hectare. At prices of 00.175 per kg
of handstripped kenaf, net returns per manday would remain below those
of improved sorghum and cotton; there are strong indictions that with at-
tractive cotton prices kenaf farmers will tend to shift towards cotton. To
judge the possibility of increasing kenaf prices to farmers, processing and
marketing costs would have to be investigated. Market prospects appear to
be good as Ghana's local production of fibers for its Kumasi jute factory
amounted to less than 10% of the country's demand. Furthermore, hitherto
untried exotic varieties could be introduced. This is intended for 1975.
C. Production
54.       The overall crop production objective of the Project would be
to produce a reliable and widespread distribution of crop inputs for the
Region's farmers, with supporting dissemination of and instruction in im-
proved husbandry practices; this would support a wide range of crops, only
the most important of which have been included in the foregoing technical
analyses.
1/   Under the Ministry of Trade and Industry.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
55.       Previous development work has shown that farmers are willing to
adopt new practices which offer real benefits; there is already an estab-
lished trade in purchased inputs in the Region. Immediate production im-
provements are expected simply from a wider distribution of goods and ser-
vices in the Region; thereafter improvements would be sustained through
demonstration, instruction and deliberate concentration of technical and
managerial research into problems confronting the smallholder.
56.       Against the background of research conducted within Ghana and
proven technical practices in other similar ecological zones, physical
budgets for crops discussed in Section B have been prepared and presented
in Tables 4 to 14. Their financial and economic attractiveness has been
assessed using farmgate values based on subsidized actual values, and com-
puted financial values in the absence of Government subsidies; the deriva-
tion of these farmgate values is detailed in Annex 1.
57.       Since significant quantities of fertilizers are already used in
the Region, it has been necessary to present the budgets under three cate-
gories, of which 'Advanced' represents the development objective of the
Project. The definitions applied to each category are as follows:
Unimproved      -  low technology, no purchased inputs;
Improved        -  improved technology with low level
of control over quality and timing
of inputs;
Advanced        -  high technology and high level of
control over quality and timing
of inputs.
58.       Projected developments under the Project are given in Table 15;
the crops have been selected according to comparative net returns per hec-
tare, manday requirements, projected trends in world market prices 1/ and
the probable impact on staple food prices of large local surpluses. Both
yields improvement and area developed are expected to result from an over-
all package of improvements including purchased inputs, timely husbandry
operations and improved labor productivity; the latter subject is dis-
cussed in Section D.
59.       Due to the almost universal practice of mixed cropping, presen-
tation of budgets in terms of sole cropping does not necessarily represent
their true value to the farmer or provide an accurate indication of incre-
mental benefits to the Project. During the last decade, mixed cropping has
attracted increasing professional attention and comparisons under trial
1/   See Annex 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
conditions have often shown substantial positive yield advantages. 1/ In
the case of work conducted at Samaru (Nigeria), mixed cropping yield in-
creases have frequently exceeded +50%, though at Nyankpala these have been
lower, varying from -10% to +30%.
60.       The extremely low crop yields frequently reported for smallhold-
ers are often judged without regard to yields from other crops that may
have been growing in the same plot. In calculating the pure stand equiv-
alent yields for the various budgets, an upward adjustment has been made
to represent more closely the effective yield that is achieved in a mixed
cropping regime. In addition, the production projection given in Table 15
has been calculated using the existing production estimates given in Annex 4,
to which have been added the product of developed area and the incremental
yield per hectare given in the crop budgets.
D. Farm Mechanization
61.       Tractors.  There are presently about 120 tractors operating in the
Upper Region which are mainly involved in rice cultivation in the larger
valleys; total area under mechanized rice is around 3,500 hectares. Most
of the tractors belong to private farmers who have received loans from ADB
and commercial banks or have purchased second-hand machinery from the Min-
istry of Agriculture. The Ministry's own hire unit has only ten service-
able tractors and eight combine harvesters; a separate hire service is
operated by the Regional Development Corporation which has four combine
harvesters.
62.       The use of advanced mechanization in the Upper Region has a rec-
ord similar to that achieved elsewhere in Ghana: expensive, inefficient
and executed with little regard to its long term effects on the soil.
While valuable lessons should have been learned from this experience,
these are still often ignored or overlooked; as a result mechanization
1/   No standard methodology has yet been established to evaluate yield re-
sponses under mixed cropping. Since conversion to financial values is
influenced by the relative values of component crops while special lay-
outs (such as alternative rows) permit a proportion of a plot to be
ascribed to each crop, no account can be made of the influence on
relative yield of each crop caused by the treatment given to the
plot. Mixed cropping trials studied during appraisal were reana-
lyzed by taking the yield of each component plot in a (one hectare)
plot and calculating the area of a sole crop plot which would have
given the same yield. The sum of these calculated areas for each
component crop, when compared with the area of the mixed plot, gave
an estimate of area gained or lost from mixed cropping.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
runs the danger of becoming a modern and expensive form of shifting culti-
vation. The results of a soil survey of Ghana which delineates broad areas
where soils can be safely mechanized, are shown in Figure 1; this indicates
the cautious approach to mechanization that must be exercised over most of
the Region.
63.       The Project does not envisage any significant expansion in trac-
torized farming in the Upper Region, but would aim to improve the efficiency
of those already existing and ensure that sound land management is practiced.
This would be primarily the responsibility of the Farm Management Section
of the Agricultural Technical Services Department whose attention would be
focused on the Region's medium and large scale farmers. Hire services would
be transferred to the Farmers Services Company (FSC) 1/ and operated at com-
mercial rates. Farmers already owning tractors would receive technical ad-
vice and assistance on suitable land management practices and the Project
would carefully monitor soil conditions on intensively cultivated units.
The Project would also act as an agent for future ADB loans and ensure
that suitable soil analyses and conservation measures are undertaken prior
to loan approval. In addition the field efficiency of the FSC Mechanical
Services Unit would be improved through mobile servicing facilities, access
to fuel supplies at selected service centers and the establishment of easily
accessible and closely spaced blocks of land which will permit high machine
output.
64.       Work Oxen.  There are presently estimated to be 8,000 pairs of
trained work oxen in the Region though the number that is actually opera-
tional is not known. Most are concentrated in the eastern sector where ox
cultivation and mixed farming systems have been gradually introduced over
the last 40 years. Ox training is undertaken by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Christian Services Committee (CSC) and more recently by GGADP. A
total of six training stations are presently operating in the Region sup-
ported by a number of itinerant trainers at village level; annual training
capacity is about 300 pairs. Farmer response continues to be good but the
high price of bullocks (around 0350-400) is out of reach of the non-cattle
owner.
65.       A further obstacle is the lack of sufficient numbers of suitable
plows and spare parts. A limited number have been imported by CSC from
Nigeria and by GGADP from Germany. Negotiations are in progress between
German and Ghanaian firms for local manufacture of a suitable plow and
spare parts in Tamale. Ridging and split ridging is practiced for upland
crops, while for paddy in the valleys a moldboard plow is needed. Whether
a suitable plow with exchangeable bodies can be developed depends on the
1/   See Annex 6.



ANNEX 2
Page 20
development of a suitable detachable ridging body. Meanwhile the Nigerian
plow "Emco" has proved best for ridging and the German "Eberhardt" for
plowing.
66.       There is considerable scope for expanding ox cultivation both
in terms of labor productivity and as a means of improving soil fertility
through production and application of farmyard manure. This would be
achieved under the Project through expanded bullock training facilities
with supporting technical instruction on mixed farming practices. Bawku
farmers already practice a form of rotational grazing (see Annex 4); the
Project would introduce fodder crops into this rotation as well as encour-
age supplementary feeding.
67.       The latest livestock statistics for Upper Region 1/ indicate a
cattle population of 340,000 head, including 24,400 bullocks, 31,100 bulls
and 155,100 cows. It is estimated that within this herd an additional 10,000
head could be converted to draft oxen. This would be achieved, particularly
in the western sector, within existing farmer herds and through private
transfer of stock between farmers. While credit would be available for
all implements, this cannot be recommended for bullocks due to their high
cost in relation to the farmers' income and to the risk of abuse; bullock
credit would therefore be limited and only available to farmers who can
provide a matching animal. As necessary, the Project would secure bullock
supplies from within the Region and from neighboring countries using when
necessary the services of the Cattle Development Board. The following
progression is expected:
-------------Year-----------------
1       2       3        4       5      Total
Project
On Credit                   100      150     200     250      300   1,000
Farmers
Matching Animals            100      150     200     250      300   1,000
Local Transfer            1,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   9,000
Total
Number                    1,200   2,300   2,400   2,500   2,600  11,000
Pairs                       600   1,150   1,200   1,250   1,300   5,500
1/   1974 Current Agricultural Statistics.



ANNEX 2
Page 21
68.       Income from work oxen would result either from increasing total
area under cultivation or from undertaking contract cultivation for other
growers. Parallel to growth in marketed production, an increased use of
ox carts is expected that would provide an additional source of revenue for
owners.
69.       Hand Tools.  Improved hand tools could make an important contribu-
tion to labor productivity. Many of the incremental labor requirements of
the advanced farm budget concern operations for which simple hand propelled
equipment is available; this includes seed planters, fertilizer drills, seed
dressing drums and crushing and shelling equipment.
70.       The suitability of such equipment would need to be carefully tested
in the area; no specific and quantified recommendations can be made at this
stage. Detailed study of small equipment is now underway at IITA and IAR,
Nigeria; the Project would benefit from this experience.
71.       Cost estimates in Annex 11 include a block allowance for purchase
of intermediate technology equipment which would be thoroughly tested at dis-
trict agricultural stations and with local farmers prior to release. Most
agricultural hand tools are manufactured locally by the Region's large num-
ber of experienced blacksmiths. The Project would encourage local manufac-
ture of implements when this is technically feasible.
March 26, 1976



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICIJLTUR&L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil Capability for Mechanized Cultivation
Legend                                                                                                                        .c 
A.  Land where more than 50 percent of the soils are capable of being
cultivated continuously with tractors, oxen, or by hand with little or                                                         c
no soil hazard.  Restrictive layer of laterite (ironpan), or bedrock
or gravelly layer, or slowly perneable soil r,iaterial may lie below
64 cm.  Includes U.S. Soil conservation Service Land Capability Classes
I to IV.  Comprises 20 percent of the total area of Ghana.                                                             _t__-
P.  Land where more than 50 percent of the soils are capable of being
cultivated intermittently by oxen or by hand with a system of bush                                                 A
fallow.  Not capable of being farmed by tractors because of soil hazard.
Restrictive layer of laterite (tronpan), bedrock, stony or gravelly
layer, or slowly permeable soil material may lie between 32 and 64 cml.
Includes U.S. Soil Conservation Service Land Capability Classes V and VI.
Comprises 33 percent of the total area of Ghana.
C.  Land where more than 50 percent of the soils are not capable of
being cultivated except in isolated patches because the soil is too
shallow (less than 32 cm)  to later-ie (ironpan) or bedrock, too stony
or too gravelly or too slowly permeable; or too rolling topography.
Includes U.S. Soil Conservation Service Land Capability Classes VII and                                           j-       A
VIII.  Comprises 47 percent of the total area of Ghana.
D.  Saline alluvial soils caDable of being cultivated continuously with
tractors, oxen, or by hand for the production of specialized crops if
adequate and continuous artificial drainage is provided.  Comprises
less than one percent of the total area of Ghana.
Source:  Henry B. Obeng,  "Land Capability Clessification
of the Soils of Ghana under Practices of Mechnized and
Hand Cultivation for Crops and Livestock Prodvction,"
TAaction: :Ninth InteVuwaionat CongteA c6 Soa.L
Scdeitce  (Adelaide:  6-16 August), Vol. IV, Paper 23,
pp. 2151-223.                                                                                                                                             GHANA



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Bawku - Inches
18 Years
(Annual Modal Rainfall 36.55 Inches - 914 mm)
p     Jan      Feb     Mar      Apr     Ma       Jun       Jul       g              Oct      Nov      Dec
1.-00         0        0        0          7i7   1.91    3 29    42        285      0        0        0
.94  0       0        0        0.22    2.65    3.07    3.32    4.40    3.10    0            0       0
.89  0       0        0        0.23    2.84    3.22    4.28    5.86    5.94    0.59    0            0
.83  0       0        0        0.37    3.06    3.24    4.32    6.16    6.05    0.83    0             0
7   0        0        0       05       316      3.62    4.Rn    6.41    6.64    1.00    0           0
.72  0       0        0        0.59    3.49    4.20    4.96    6.82    6.B9    1.0b    0             o
.67  0       0        0        1.11    3.59    4.36    5.18    8.72    6.94    1.11    0            0
.61  0       0        0.06    1.55    3.75   4.55    5.45    8.81    8.10    1.15    0               0
*56  0       0        0.18    1.62    3.80    4.57    5.53    9.08    8.59    1.16    0             0
.!0  0  0        0.23    1.70  _.417    4.68    5.76    9.14    9.15    1.25    0              0
. T  O  0        0.31    1.75    4.18    4.68    6.32    9.56    9.77    2.64    0             0
.39  0       0.18    0.35    2.35    4.21    4.87    6.90    9.96    9.84    2.65    0.01    0
.33  0       0.22    0.61    2.45    4.63    4.90    7.27   10.41    9.89    3.00    0.02    0
.28  0       0.22    0.65    3.30    4.65    5.00    7.47   10.81   10.01    3.02    0.08    0
.22  0       0.33    0.67    3.56    6.29    5.03    7.72   11.22   10.61    3.58    0.25    0
.17  0       0.40    0.85    3.58    7.22    6.61    8.00   11.83   11.31    4.04    0.61    0
.11  0       o.64    0.87    4.25    8.85    6.72    8.83   12.08   12.59    5.07    0.98    0.13
.06  0.01    1.14    1.32    4.27    9.80    8.14    8.85   12.17   12.61    5.62    1.19    0.40
Total      Inches        0.01    3.18    5.45   33.40   82.12   88.05  107.98  145.57  150.98   37.79    3.14    0.53
Arithmatic av. Inches         0        0.18    0.30    1.86    4.57    4.89    6.00    8.09    8.39    2.10    0.17    0.03
mm            0       4        8       47     114      122      150     202      210       52.40    4         0.75
50% Probability Inches         0        0        0.23    1.70    4.17    4.68    5.76    9.14    9.15    1.25    0             0
mm            0       0        6       43     104      117      144     229      229       31        0        0
75% Probability Inches         0        0       0        0.55    3.33    3.91    4.88    6.62    6.77    1.04    0             0
mm            0       0        0       14      83       98      122     166      169       26        0        0
September 10, 1975                                   



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Navrongo - Inches
29 Years
(Annual Modal Rainfall h      n .7 Q 2lLmm)_
P     Jan     Feb     Mar    Apr      fa      Jun     Jul    Aug      Sep      Oct    Nov      Dec
1.00  0       0       0       0.06    1.26    2.66    2.02    2.19    4.73    0.00    0        0
.97  0      0        0       0,46    1.90    2,75    3.48    5,68    4.73    0.12    0        0
.93  0      0        0       0.50    1.93    3.23    4.45    6.92    4.77    0.14    0        0
.90 0       0        0       0.51    1.96    3.60    4.75    7.00    4.90    0.51    0        0
.86  o      0        0       0.54    2.02    3.67    5.52    7.44    4.98    0.79    0        0
.83 0       0       0       0.69    2.09    3.76    6.02    7.84    5.24    1.07    0         0
.79 0       0        0.01    0.80    2.61    3.59    6.25    8.31    5.94    1.22    0        0
.76 0       0       0.01    0.d1    2.65    4.06    6.35    5.78    6.23    1.27    0         0
.72 0       0       0.01    1.08    2.73    4.12    6.44    9.05    6.57    1.30    0         0
.69  0      0        0.02    1.49    2.80    4.19    6.52    9.16    6.63    1.42    0        0
.66  0      0        0.09    1.67    2.91    4.36    6.65    9.77    6.70    1.61    0        0
.62 0       0        0.12    1.69    3.45    4.45    7.11   10.03    6.86    1.73    0        0
.59  0      0        0.14    1.91    3.48    4.50    7.30   10.36    7.30    1.89    0        0
0C         O 0      0.41    2.02    3.64    4.89    7.78   10.50    7.36    1.93    0        0
,0          0       0.50    2.03    3.80    4.92    7.82   11.64    8.02    2.10    0         0
.48 0       0       0.51    2.17    3.YY    4.Y6    7.o7   11.67    0.42    2.11    0         (
.45  0      0        0.55    2.31    4.01    4.96    7.91   11.94    8.70    2.28    0        0
.41  0      0        0.55    2.63    4.16    5.10    7.92   12.36    8.72    2.35    0.09    0
.38 0       0        0.56    2.74    4.51    5.48    8.30   12.43    9.22    2.59    0.10    0
.34 0       0.01    0.61    2.91    4.58    5.62    8.33   12.57    9.24    2.62    0.10    0
.31  0      0.03    0.72    3.00    4.59    5.62    8.59   12.83   10.00    2.67    0.35    0
.28  0      0.05    0.76    3.20    4.93    5.63    9.55   12.94   10.60    2.72    0.41    0
.24 0       0.06    0.85    3.23    5.00    5.76   10.26   11.59   11.59    3.10    0.46    0
.21  0      0.35    1.04    3.58    5.43    5.85   10.54   13.04   12.22    3.25    0.47    0
.17  0      0.40    1.05    3.90    5.72    6.17   11.34   13.36   12.71    3.26    0.82    0
.14  0      0.56    1.09    3.91    7.49    6.19   11.61   13.96   13.09    3.44    1.05    0.04
.10  0      0.77    1.29    3.97    7.64    6.85   11.93   15.26   13.22    3.45    1.14    0.17
.07  0.92    1.67    2.06    4.92    8.18    7.03   12.91   15.40   18.64    3.61    1.64    0.20
.03  1.01    2.78    8.12    5.71   10.518   7.42   13.00   15.76   15.13    6.07    2.37    1.06
Total                      1.93    6.68   16.56   61.21  115.07  136.7-' 226.22  311.17  2188.56   60.62    9.0     1.47
Arithmatic av. IJr         0.07    0.23    0.57    2.11    3.97    4.71    7.87   10.73    8.57    2.09    U.31    0.05
Average     mn          2              18      53      99      118     197     268     214      52       8        1.25
50% Probability In         0       o        .50     2.10    3.90    4.94    8.55   11.66    8.22    2.10    0        0
mm          0       0      13      53      98     124     214     292      206      53       0       0
80% Probability In         0       0        0       0.77    2.46    3.96    6.18    8.19    5.76    1.18 a      o 
mm          O       0       0      18      62      97     155     205      148      30       0       0
c D



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Wa - Inches
29 Years
(Annual Modal Rainfall 40.85 Inches - 1021 mm)
P            J23n      Feb      Mar       Apr       May       Jun      Jul       Aug       Sep       Oct      Nov       Dec
1.00           0         0        0         1.08      2.47     2.72      1.85      3.38      5.10      0.15     0         0
.97           0        0         0         1.10      2.90     2.76      2.53      3.60      5.48     0.71      0         0
.93           0        0         0         1.13      3.12     2.81      2.58      5.05      5.55     0.83      0         0
.90           0        0         0.01      1.18     3.33      3.36      2.59      5.47     5.63      1.10      0         0
.86           0        0         0.01      1.26     3.50      3.56      2.61      5.51      6.02     1.17      0         0
.83           0        0         0.06      1.33     3.56      3.73      3.43      5.69      6.05     1.23      0         0
.79           0        0         0.15      1.88      3.68     3.91      3.58      5.75      6.06     1.44      0         0
.76           0        0         0.23      1.88     3.94      3.97      4.00      5.98      6.79     1.71      0         0
.72           0         0        0.30      2.01      4.09     4.04      4.07      6.31      6.23      1.89     0         0
.69           0         0        0.40      2.37     4.10      4.06      5.26      6.09      7.17      2.10     0         0
.66           0        0         0.55      2.38     4.34      4.32      4.36      6.38      7.34      2.46     0.09      0
.62           0        0         0.63      2.42     4.66      4.58      4.54      6.40      7.26      2.41     0.14      0
.59           0         0        0.74      2.68     4.68      4.70      4.64      6.46      7.41      2.72     0.20      0
.55           0        0         0.98      2.92     4.80      4.71      4.81      6.81      7.54     3.03      0.24      0
.52           0        0.01      1.28      3.1 9    4.81      5.31      4.85      6.86      7.97     3.22      0.26      0
.48    -----   0       0.03      1.30     3.40      4.82      5.39     5.64      6.94      8.10      3.4B      0.28      0
.45           0        0.05      1.38      3.80     4.90      5.76      6.17      7.06      8.26      3.55     0.33      0
.41           0        0.07      1.41      3.83      5.09     6.02      6.30      7.11      8.39      3.97     0.36      0
.38           0        0.09      1.67      3.84      5.15     6.16      6.31      8.09      8.84      4.01     0.49      0
.34           0         0.13     2.19      4.28      5.25     6.20      6.45      8.61      9.01      4.25     0.52      0
.31           0        0.16      2.20      4.42      5.27     6.41      6.83      9.18      9.32     4.28       0.56     0.12
.28           0         0.32     2.31      4.65      5.30     6.51      6.94      9.51      9.44      4.34      0.59     0.19
.24           0        0.36      2.37      4.74      6.00     6.86      6.94      9.85      9.57      4.40     0.67      0.29
.21           0         0.76     2.57      4.96      6.02     7.11      7.11     10.36      9.87      4.58      9.92      0.32
.17           0.01     0.99      2.69      5.07      6.21     7.12      7.51     10.96     10.67      4.70      1.13     0.48
.14           0.19      1.65     2.78      5.61      6.34      7.27     8.60     11.09     11.01      6.06      1.54      1.20
.10           0.37      1.72     3.44      5.95      6.38      7.71    10.15     12.82     11.55      6.26      1.68     1.34
.07           0.41     2.13      3.66      6.69      6.63     8.11     12.66     13.87     12.52      6.27      2.74     1.59
.03           0.47      3.45     5.20      7.28     11.50      8.65    13.00     17.12     15.63      7.16      2.87      1.64
T  0 T  A L                               1.45     11.92     40.51     97.33    142.84    153.82   154.27    228.31   239.98     01.34     13.61      7.17
Arithmatic Average       Inches           0.05      0.41      1.40     3.36      4.93      5.30      5.32      7.87     8.28      3.15      0.54      0.25
mm               1.25    10         35       84       123       133       133      197       207        79        13         6
Probability 50%          Inches           0         0         0.17     1.74      3.66      3.86      3.54      5.73     6.05      1.39      0         0
mm               0         0         4       44        92        97        89      143       151        35         0         D            z
Probability 75%          Inches           0         3.2       1.29     3.30      4.81      5.35      5.25      6.90      5.04     3.35      0.27      0 °D
mm               0         5        32       83       120       134       131       173      201        84         7         0
September 10, 1975



GHANA
UPPLR REGIION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPME NT PROJECT
Crop Labor R rements
(ndays per Hdectare)
Millet/Sorghum       ..... Maize .....           Rice......    ..Groundnuts...         ...... Yams ....     .Cowpeas.       ..... Cotton.
'a                    a                     'a                    a                    'a                   'a               '
o        a        S                            o   a a                              $     o                     a)       a             a,
Land ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Prpra  25    30    35  25    30 3   0 3     5     3      5        0     5        0     1        0       2      0     3
P3a-.ing  7   8    10  7-,     a    1        7
Thinning/E'eeding      25    27    30        25    27    3~~~~0 30            30                                    SO 20 2  0V5 5   0 1     0       2      7     3
Land Prepasrati1 25    30    35                                 25    30    35        30    35    20 25    30    35              50    55       60     10      30       25    30    35
PIareting                                  7      8    10        7     8    10         7     8    10         7     8    10       20    25       35      5       8        8    12    12
Fertilizer Applicatian)                    -      2      3       -      2     3        -      2     3        -     2      3        -     3       5       -      2                     5
Thinning/Weeding                          25    27    30        25    27    30        30    30    30        20    20    20       45    51       60     15      20       25    27    30
Spraying                                   -      -      -       -      -     -                                                                                                 8 
Harvesting                                13    19    25        10    14    20        20    25    30        20    25    30       40    46       55      10     20       25    35    50
Thireshing/Grading                        10    16    17         8      9    12       18    20    27        18    20    27         -     -              5      10       10    12    12
Uprooting,                                 -      -      -       -      -     _        -      -     -        -     _      -        -     -       -       _      -        7    10    10
Total                80   100   120        75    90   110       105   120   140        90   105    125    155   180    215         45      95     100   135   150
Level of Technolon'
UnLmproved - No purchased inputs.
Improved - Improved but low level of control over quality and timing of inpaits.
Advanced - Improved with high level of control over quality and timing of inputs.
September 10, 1975



UPPISR MICH AGRICURAL DIVILCr'W  PROJECT
One Hectare Budast for Millet/Sorshm Xixed
hajical
Ulnits    -Uniaxroved t    roved
O2atDuts
Yield of Millet                kg           350          550
Yield of Sorghum               kg           350          650
Inouta
Millet Seed                   kg              3           3
Sorghum Seed                  kg             4            4
Fertilizer - CAN              kg            -            75
-SSP                kg            -            75
Dressing U                                   -            10
Labor                      Mandays           80          100
2/                                         2/.9
Financial     _    ludinE Subsidies       Financial  Includina Subsidies
Price           j        Impraved          Price      Unimorved    Improved
Income
Sale of Millet                .173           60.6        95.1            .173         60.6           95.1
Sale of Sorghum               .170           59.5        110.5           .170         59.5          110.5
120.1        205.6                       120.1          205.6
Expenditures
Millet Seed                  .173             0.5          0.5          .173           0.5            0.5
Sorghum Seed                 .170             0.7          0.7           .170          0.7            0.7
Fertilizer - CAN             .296            -            22.2          .148           -             11.1
- SSP             .252             -           18.9          .126           -.5
5remsI1g                      .06             -            0.1          .006           _              0.1
1.2         42.4                         1.2           2t.8
Net Return per                                118.9        163.2                       11B.9  -       183.8
2rianday                             !.h49        1.63                        1.49           1.84
Incremental return per ha                                   44.3                         -             64.9
Incremental return per mnday                    -            2.22                                       3.25
1/ 1980 prices in 1975 cenetant t.me
M/ Nodel aaeusne 50% fertL2iser subsidy.
2/ Ikohange rate US 1 - 0 1.154
Deeer 16, 1975



UPPER UGICW AGRIOTITUR&L DIZLaPKT PROJICT
One Hectare Dudcet for Nazf gorEhm 
Physical
Units   Un1inroved   Improved   Adanced
output
Yield of Grain                kg         750         1,200      1,800
InPut
Seed                          kg           8             8         10
Fertilizer - CAN              kg          -             75        150
- SSP             kg           -            75         150
D.essing                       g          -             -          20
Labor                       Mandays       30           100        120
2/
Finanoial   koluding Subsidiea                    linancial   Includins Subsidies
Price   Uni _roved    broed   Advanced            Price   Uimprfed   ImoDroed  Advanced
Income
Sale of Grain                 .170       127.5         204.0      306.0         .170      127.5         204.0      306.0
Exenditure V
Seed                          .170         1.4           1.4        2.8          170        1.4           1.4         2.8
Fertilizer - GUi              .296         -            22.2       44.4         .148        -            11.1       22.2
- SSP              252          -           18.9        37.8         126         -             9.5       18..9
Dressing                      .006         -             0.1        0.1         .006        -             0.1        0.1
1.4         42.5        85.0                     1.4         22.1        44.0
Not Return per ha                          126.1         161.5      221.0                    126.1        161.9       262.0
per meq                           1.58         1.62        1.84                    1.58          1.82       2.18
Incremental retu   er  a                     -            i5.4       94.9                      -           5tSi       135.9
Inoremental return pr medaty                            -1 1.77       2.37                     -            2.79        3.40
/  1980 prices in 1975 omaaent tors.
t, Model aeBmes 5C% ferti1imer subsidy.
b$ Exchange rate US$ 1 - JO 1.154
Special price for imnjoved grin seed
DIom_br 16, 1975



GHANA
UPPZR  mItL4AGKICULTURAL DEVEIOPHKiW PROJECT
One Heotare Budaet for Xaize
Phyical
Units   Traditional   Jmnoved  Advanoed
Output
Yield of Grains              kg        750          1,200     2,000
Inputs
Seed                         kg         15            20         25
Fertilizer - CAN             kg         -             75        150
- SSP             kg         -             75       150
Chemical - Dressing           g         -              -         50
Storage           kg         -             -           2
Labor                      Mandays      75            90        110
2/                                 2      ~       ~     ~~/ 3/
Financial   bcludinE SubsidigA                 Financial   Including Subsidies
Prce   Traditional               Advanced         Price   Traditional     Droved   Advanced
Inccme
Sale of Grain               .103        77.3          123.6    206.0           .103      77.3         123.6      206.0
Expenditure  2/                                                         W
Seed                        .103         1.6            2.1       4.7          .103       1.6           2.1        4.7
Fertilizer - CAN            .296         -             22.2      44.4          .148       -            11.1       22.2
SSP            .252         -            18.9       37.8          .126       -            9.5        t8.9
Chmiical - Dressing         .006         -              -         0.3          .006       -             -          0.3
Storage         3.9           -             -          7.8         3.9         -            -           7.8
1.6         143.2      95.0                      1.6         22.7       53.9
Net Retumn per ha                         75.7           80.4    111.1                      75.7        100.9      152.1
per manday                      1.01          0.89      1.01                     1.01         1.12        1.38
Incremental return per ha                  -              4.7      35.4                     -            25.2       76.4
Incremental return per manday              -              0.31      1.01                    -             1.68       2.18
I/ 1980 prices in 1975 constant terms.
M/ Model assumes 50% fertilizer subeidy.
/ Erohange rate US$ 1 i- e l.l54
Special price for improved seed.
Decoiber 16, 1975



UPPER B33ICN AGRI=CTURAL DWISVSENT PROJECT
One Uectare Budget for Rice
Phyxical
Units     UnimDroved     Iproved        Advanoed
OUtDUt
Yield of Paddy           kg          900           1,400          2,200
Invut
Seed                     kg           70              80             90
Fertilizer - CiN         kg          -                75            150
- SPP         kg          -                75            150
Dressing                  g          -                -             250
Labor                 Mandays       105              120            140
2/                                    2~~/                  3/
Financial lkoluding Subsidies                      Financial Including Subsidies
Price     Unimproved     bnx.Yd        Advanced      Price     Urm!.    ed  Improved   Advanced
------------------------ AP -------------_--------   ------------------C----------------------
Income
Sale of Paddy           .115         103.5           161.0          253.0   .115         103.5        161.0       253.0
EYpenditure 1/
Seed                    .115           8.1             9.2           10.4   .115           8.1           9.2       10.4
Fertilizer - CAN        .296           -              22.2           44.4    .148         -             11.1       22.2
- SSP       .252           -               18.9           37.8    .126         -             9.5        18.9
Dressing               .006            -                              1.5   .006          -             -1.5
Net Return per ha                         8.1            50.3           94.1                  8.1          29.8       53.0
Net  eturn per ha                        95.4           110.7           158.9                95.4         131.2      200.0
per manday                    0.91             0.92           1.14                 0.91         1.09        1.43
Inoremental return/ha                     -              15.3            63.5                 -            35.8      104.6
Incremental return/manday                                 1.02            1.81                -             1.39       2.99
1 1980 prices in 1975 constant ter,u.
M/ Model assumes 50C fertilizer aubsidy.
$ 1u      - A  l.l54.
Decmber 16, 15M7



GEM
UPPER R2ICU Al WTURAL DIVBLOPEINT PROJECT
One Heot-ar. kidgst for Groundnuta                            A(NNE  2
pbsiaal
Units   Tradtional    =rond   Advanoed
outputs
Yield of Shelled Nute           kg        450           600         900
Inouts
Seed                            kg         50            65          90
Fertilizer - SSP                kg         -             75         150
Dreaaing                         g         -             -         250
Labor                         Nandays      90           105        125
Financial   l inzI Subsidies                    Finanoial   Includinz Subsidies
Prloe                 Ixuroi- d   Advanced        Price   Traditional   Improved   Advanced
------------------- le------------ _-------       ---------------------,CIr-------------------
Inoome
Sale of Shelled Nuts          .293        131.9         175.8       263.7        .293       131.9        175.8       263.7
Enenditure V
Seed                          .293         14.6          19,1        26.4        .293        14.6         19.1        26.4
Fertilizer - SSP              .252          -            18.9       37.S         .126         -            9.5        18.9
Dressing                      .006          -             -           1.5        .006         -            -           1 .5
14.6         38.0        65.7                    14.6          28.6       46.8
Net lteturn per ha                           117.3        137.8       198.0                   117.3         147.2      216.9
per manday                         1.30          1.31       1.58                    1.30          1.4         1.74.
Inoremental return/ha                          -           20.5        80.7                     -            29.9       99.6
Incremental return/manday                                   1 .37       2.31                                  1 .99      2.85
1l96O prices in 1975 constant term.
M/ Nodel assumnes 50% fertilizer subsidy.
'V lechange rate US$ 1 * % 11,54
December 16, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGICO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Budget for Yam
.........................Physical .
Units       Traditicnal    Improved          Advanced
output
Yield of Tubers                                     kg           4,00O          5,500           9,000
Inputs
Seed Yams                                           kg           2,000          2,500           4,Qoo
Fertilizer - CAN                                    kg                -           100             250
Insecticides                                        kg                -             -              25
Labor                                             Mandays          155            180             215
3/                                                              3/                     2/
......... Financial Excluding Subsidies ...........             ............ Financial Including Subsidies-.
Income                                       ;Price        Traditional      Improved        Advanced           Price       Traditional        Improved        Advanced
Income 1/
Sale of Tubers                                     .106            4241.0         583.0           954.0            .106            424.0            583.0           954-o
Expenditure e
Seed Yam                                          .106             212.0          265.0           424.o           .106             212.0           265.             424.o
Fertilizer - CAN                                   .296              -             29.6            7I4.0           .148                              u .             37.0
Insecticide                                       1.80                -             -             145.0          1.80                 -                -             45.o
212.0         294.6           543.0                            212.0           279.8           506. o
Net Return per ha                                                     212.0          288.4           411.0                            212.0           303.2            448.o
Incremental return per ha                                               1            7614°6           19                                1.37            1.68            26.0
Incremental return per manday                                           -             33.06           3.32                                             93.65             3.93
1/ 1980 prices in 1975 constant terms.
2/ Model assumes 50% fertili7er subsidy.
3/  exchange rate, TTS$1 - 01.154.
December 16, 1975                                                                                                                                                                    C)



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELORENT PROJECT
One Hectare Budget for Cowpeas
................ Physical.
Units           Unimproved           Advanced
Outt
Yield of Bears                                        kg               200                 900
Input s
Seed                                                  kg                15                  25
Fertilizer - SSP                                      kg                 -                  50
Sprays                                                  1                -                  IC
Labor                                               Mandays             45                  95
........  FinanciarExcludirg Subsidies ......                 ........ Financiai4Including SubsidiesZ./
1/                                              Price           Unimproved            Advanced                 Price           Unimproved            Advanced
Incomenmr                                                                                                                                                    dan 
Income ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~          --          --~~~------r--------  ---------------                              ... f__v
Sale of Bears                                         .190              38.0               171.0                    .190               38.0                171.0
1/
Expenditure
Seed                                                  .190               2.9                  h.8                   .190                2.9                  4.8
Fertilizer - SSP                                      .252               -                   12.6                   .126                -                    6.3
Sprays                                                 4/2                      -           56.7                     1/                 -                   56.7
2.9                724.1                                       2.9                67.8
Net Return per ha                                                         35.1                 96.9                                      35.1                103.2
per manday                                                     0.78                 1.02                                      0.78                 1.09
Incremental return per ha                                                  -                   61.8                                                           68.1
Incremental return per mandW                                               -                    1.28                                      -                    1.36
1/ 1980 prices in 1975 constant terms.
2/ Assumes 50% fertilizer subsidy.
3/ US$1 = 01.l54
:/  See Annex 2, Table 14.
e b 1-7
December 16, -1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Budget for Cotton
Physical
Units     Unimproved      Improved      Advanced
Outputs
Yield of Seed Cotton                           kg           200            600           900
Inputs
Seed                                           kg            30             45           45
Fertilizer - CAN                               kg            -             100           150
- SSP                              kg            -             100           150
Sprays                                          1            -              15            15
Labor                                         Mandays       100            135           150
Net Return per Hectare
Financial -' Excluding Subsidies                                Financial -, Including Subsidies -'
Price     Unimproved      Improved    Advanced                 Price      Unimproved      Improved       Advanced
Income 1/
Sale of Seed Cotton                           .527          105.4         316.2        47L.3                 .527         105.4            316.2       474.3
Expenditure -
Seed                                          .270           8.1            12.2       12.2                   .270           8.1            12.2        12.2
Fertilizer - CAN                              .296            -             29.6       44.4                   .148            -             14.8        22.2
- SSP                             .252            -             25.2       37.8                   .126            -             12.6        18.9
Sprays                                                       --             84.8       84.8                     1/-                         84.8        8.
8.1          1451.8      179.2                                 8.1           124.4        138.1
Net Return per ha                                           97.3           164.4      295.1                                  97.3          191.8       336.2
per Manday                                        .97            1.22        1.97                                  .97           1.42         2.24          1S
Incremental return/ha                                         -             67.1       197.8                                  -             94.5        238.9             cm
Incremental return/manday                                                    1.92        3.96                                                2.7          4.78            (D
1/ 1980 prices in 1975 constant terms.
2/ Assumes 50% fertilizer subsidy.
3/ US$ 1 = 0 1.154.
b/ See Annex 2, Table 14.
December 11, 1975



GHANA
UPPE  REGION JORI CtLTURAL DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
One Hctare BixIct for Tomatoes
............. Physical.
Unit       Unimproved         Advaic ed
Oat put
Yield                                       kg          7,500           15,000
InPuts
Seeds 1/                                    Grams          50               25
Fertilizer - CAN                            kg             50              150
-SSP                            kg            200              500
-HP                             kg             50              250
Sprays
Pests ji/                                 kg              3               10
Diseases                                  IC h                            30
Labor                                     14madays        400              560
.. Financial 4' Excludirn  Subsidies               Financial    Including Subsidies W
Price      Unimnroved         Advamed              Price        Unimprov d        Advanced
InoomB                                         ----------- ---   ------- ----- ---- -- -   -      --- -- --- ---- --- -- - -- ----- -- -- - ----- -
Sale of Tomatoe s                           .140        1,050.0          2,100                  .140         1,050            2,100
Expenditures a/
Seeds                                       .035           17.5               8.8               .035            17.5              8.8
Fertilizer - CAN                           .296            14.8             44.4                .148             7.4              22.2
- SSP                           .252           50.4             126.0               .126            25.2              63.0
- HP                            .343           17.1              85.7               -in              8.6              42.8
Sprays
Pests                                   1.80              5.14            18.0               1.60              5.14            18.0
Diseases                               44.00             36.0             120.0              4.00             36.0             120.0
141.2            402.9                               100.1            274.8
Net Retirn per ha                                            908.8          1,697.1                               949.9          1,825.2
Return per Manday                                          2.27             3.03                                2.37              3.26
Incremental returx/ha                                             -            786.3                                -               875.3
Incremental return/manday                                         -              4.93                               -                 5.47
/ Direct seeding in the case of unimproved production Technology and Transplenting in the case of the advanced TechnologyF
2/ DDT 5%.
3/ Alternate copper fungicide and M .45
4/ 1980 prices in 1975 constant terms.
5/ Assumes 50% fertilizer subsidy.
i/ US$ I - Z 1.154
December 11,1975



GHANA
UPPER REfION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SPRAYING COSTS
Specification
Sprayer                                       - ULV (probably Micron Ulva 16)
Swath width                                   - 18m (2 rows per pass)
Capacity                                      - 10 ha total per season
Length of life                                - 2 years
Spray Requirements                            Cotton                          Cowpea
Formulation                                  Endosulfan 25%                   Endosulfan 25%
Applications                                  6 (15 litres)                   4 (10 litres)
Operating Costs
Sprayer depreciation                           9.7 1/                           6.6  2/
Batteries  3/                                  1.6                              1.1
Spray @ { 4U. 90/itre                         73.5                             49.0
Total                                    84.8                            56.7
1/ 0 33.0 over 2 years @ 1.7 ha per sprayer per year.
2/  % 33.0 over 2 years @ 2.5 ha per sprayer per year.                                                              X
3/ X 2.70(8 batteries) suitable for one season.
December 5,  1975



ANNEX 2
Table 15
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production ProJection
................... Year of Program.
Pre
Category             Program          1           2          3           4          5
1.  Developed Area                                                     --------------------------ha----
Millet/Sorghum                 Improved             10,000         11,000     12,500      15,000     20,000      30,000
Dwarf Sorghum                  Improved                500            500        500         500        500         500
Advanced                -             250         750       1,500      3,000      6,000
Maize                          Improved              1,000          1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000
Advanced                -             250         750      1,500       2,500      4,000
Rice                           Improved              4,000          4,000      4,000       4,000      4,000       4,000
Advanced              1,000         2,OQO       5,000     10,000      15,000     20,000
Groundnuts                     Improved              5,000          5,000      5,000       5,000      5,000       5,000
Advanced                -           1,000       5,000     10 _00      17,500     25,000
Yam                            Improved                500            500        500         500        500         500
Advanced                -             250         500       1,000      2,000       3,000
Cowpeas                        Advanced                -              500      1,500       3,000      6,000      10,000
Cotton                         Improved              3,500          3,500      3,500       3,500      3,500       3,500
Advanced                -           1,000       5,000     10,000      15,000     20,000
Tomatoes                       Advanced                1/              50        200         400        600         800
2. Gross Production /
----------------Metric tons-----------------------
Millet                         Increment               -              200        500       1,000      2,000       4,000
Total               73,800         74,000      74,300     74,o00      75,800     77,800
Sorghum                        Increment (tall)        -              300        750       1,500      3,000       6,000
Increment (dwarf)       -             270         790      1,580       3,150      6,300
Total               60,500         61,070      62,040     63,580      66,650     72,800
Maize                          Increment               -              310        940       1,880       3,130      5,000
Total               14,500         14,810      15,440     16,380      17,630      19,500
Rice 3/                        Increment               -            1,300      5,200      11,700      18,200     29,600
Total                17,000        18,300.    22,200      28,700      35,200      46,600
Groundnuts                     Increment               -              450      2,250       4,500      7,875      11,250
Total               17,500         17,950      19,750     22,000      24,250     28,750
Yam                            Increment               -            1,250      2,500       5,000      10,000     15,000
Total               391800         41,050      42,300     44,800      49,d00     54,800
Covpoas                        Increment               -              350      1,050       2,100      4,200       7 ooo
Cotton                  Total               12,900         13,250      13,950     15,0C0      17,100      19,900
Cotton 1+1                     Increment               -              900      4,500       9,000     13,500      18,000
Total                2,100          3,000       6,600     11,100      15,600     20,100
Tomatoes                       Increment               -              380      1,500       3,000       4,500      6,000
Total
1/ Rxisting production unknown.
I/ Incremental production ca2oulated from the product of incremental area given in Section 1 of this
table and the incremental yeild  expressed in tables 4 through 3.
3 4,000 hectares are added to the existing rice acreage during the fifth year.
i The advanced level of technology is used on land added to the existing cotton acreage.
September 10, 1975






ANNEX 3
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Staffing
Schedule 1     Establishment of Project Management Unit
Schedule 2     Organogram - Project Management Unit
Schedule 3     Organogram - Linkage of Project Management
Unit to Other Agencies
Schedule 4     Description of Major Functional Departments
Schedule 5     Job Descriptions and Qualifications of Senior Staff
Schedule 6     Table 1  Project Management Unit Staff Requirements
Table 2   Ghana Broadcasting Corporation and Staff for
Other Agencies (Upper Region Broadcasting)
Table 3   Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. Staff
Requirements
Table 4   Senior Management and Specialist Staff
Schedule 7     Bar Chart on Project Operations






ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Establishment of Project Management Unit
1.        The Government has published an '`Order" in the official Government
Gazette establishing the Upper Region Project Management Unit (URPMU) and
the Upper Region Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
(URADPEC). The Order sets out the objectives and responsibilities of URPMU
and URADPEC and includes the following:
2.        The URPMU would be managed by a Project Manager and its objectives
would include:
(a) development of the Upper Region with a view to increasing
agriculture production and raising the living standards
of the rural population;
(b) establishment of 90 farm service centers, at a rate of 30
per year, that would provide crucial services to farmers
including extension and management advice;
(c) improvement of animal health services including provision
of vaccines;
(d) development of small scale ranching schemes;
(e) establishment of applied research and demonstration
units;
(f) operation of a pilot adult functional literacy program;
(h) establishment, through Ghana Broadcasting Corporation,
of a regional FM radio broadcasting network;
(i) improvement of human nutrition;
(j) staff training;
(k)  construction of dams, fish ponds and soil conservation
works, and the establishment of a special unit to be
known as the "Soil and Water Conservation Working Account:'
to construct the works;
(1) provision of material assistance to villagers for building
700 village wells;
(m) construction, through Cotton Development Board, of two
ginneries and associated storage at Wa and Zwarungu
respectively;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 2
(n) development of supporting infrastructure such as houses,
buildings, etc.;
(o) evaluation and monitoring of ongoing Project actions,
and preparation of new plans for expanded development
in the Region; specifically, this would include planning
for those areas freed of onchocerciasis in both the Upper
and Northern Regions; and
(o) any other activities to ensure the success of the Project.
3.        URPMU would be controlled by the Upper Region Agricultural
Development Project Executive Committee (URADPEC), responsible to the
Commissioner of Agriculture, and would be made up as follows:
-    Regional Commissioner - Chairman;
-    Senior representative of Ministry of Finance (Accra);
-    Senior representative of Ministry of Agriculture (Accra);
-    Senior representative of Ministry of Labor (Accra);
-    Senior representative of Ministry of Social Welfare and
Cooperation (Accra);
-    Senior representative of Ministry of Economic Planning (Accra);
-    Representative of Director General of Ghana Broadcasting
Corporation (GBC);
-    Representative of Bank of Ghana;
-    Representative of Agricultural Development Bank;
-    Regional Administrative Officer;
-    Project Manager;
-    Managing Director of Farmers Services Company
-    a member of the House of Chiefs;
-    two bona fide farmers residing in the Upper Region, to be
appointed by the House of Chiefs.
4.        URADPEC would be responsible to the Commissioner of Agriculture
and would have the following responsibilities:
(a) Policy: URADPEC would determine agricultural and development
policy, and would consult with Government and the World Bank
when any major changes in policy may be required.
(b) Finance:
(i) URADPEC would approve the annual budget and
would ensure that sufficient Government funds
are readily available to the Project;
(ii) URADPEC would appoint independent auditors;
(iii) URADPEC would submit audited statement of accounts
to the Commissioner of Finance within four months
of the closure of each financial year;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 3
(iv) URADPEC would approve the opening of URPMU bank
accounts; and
(v) the Chairman of URADPEC would approve the monthly
cash flow statements submitted by the Manager of
URPMU.
(c) Staff and Personnel Matters: in consultation with the
Manager of URPMU, URADPEC would be responsible for approving
the appointment of all senior URPMU staff and employees,
their terms and conditions of employment, and annual
review of salaries and allowances.
(d) Award of Contracts: URADPEC would on the advice of the
Manager of URPMU be responsible for approval of any single
contract valued at more than 050,000.
(e) Interdepartmental Coordination: URADPEC through its
members would be responsible for the coordination at
Ministry level for those issues that may affect the
proper development of the Project.
Meetings of URADPEC
5.   (a)  The Chairman would preside over all the meetings of URADPEC
which he attends and in his absence the present members
would appoint one of their number to preside over such a
meeting.
(b) The Chairman of the URADPEC would invite members to meet
at such time and place as he may think suitable, provided
that no more than three months would elapse between any one
meeting and the next. In the absence of the Chairman, the
Project Manager would call URADPEC to meet whenever he
deems this necessary.
(c) The URADPEC may call any person to attend any of its
meetings without that person having a counted vote.
6.        URPMU would be responsible to URADPEC for day-to-day operations.  In
particular it would be responsible for carrying out the objectives as stated
in para 2 above. URPMU would be managed by a Project Manager who would report
directly to the Chairman of URADPEC. The main duties of URPMU would be:



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 4
(a) implementation of an agricultural development Project
within the Upper Region following the policy guidelines
of the URADPEC;
(b) preparation of annual budgets and cash flows for approval
by URADPEC. In particular URPMU would submit to the
Chairman of the URADPEC monthly cash flow statements
indicating any changes in requirements for Government
funds due to changes in Project expenditures. Unless
informed to the contrary within five days of dispatch
of such statements to the Chairman of URADPEC, the Man-
ager would be authorized to make the proposed expendi-
tures;
(c) recruitment of URPMU staff, in consultation, when
necessary, with other Government departments, and
for senior staff, with approval of URADPEC;
(d) advertisement, negotiations, calling for tenders, and--
after approval from URADPEC for those of more than
050,000--conclusion of such contracts with persons and
organizations either inside or outside Ghana for the
erection of buildings, construction of civil works and
supply of goods, services and materials as may seem
requisite for the proper discharge of its duties;
(e) operation of URPMU bank accounts; and
(f)  preparation of reimbursement claims against URPMU
expenditure, for submission to external financing agencies.
7.        URPMU would be responsible for evaluating and planning new agri-
cultural projects for the Upper Region, and specifically for preparing plans
for those areas freed of onchocerciasis in both the Upper and Northern
Regions. URPMU would be responsible for advising the Irrigation Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture on the suitability of selected land for pos-
sible irrigation schemes.
8.        URPMU would be responsible for monitoring the collection and dis-
semination of market information to the Region's farmers, and would cooperate
with FSC and other agencies in improving marketing practices.
9.        During the development of the Project (first five years), URPMU
would not be restricted from importing goods into Ghana, and such goods
would be exempt from duty and taxes.
10.       URPMU would establish a special heavy plant and equipment unit,
including contingent workshop facilities, to be known as the "Soil and



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 5
Water Conservation Working Account" (SWCA). The account would have a sepa-
rate bank account, would operate on a commercial basis in respect to costs
and operating charges, and would be free to hire operating staff at commer-
cial wage rates, including the payment of bonuses based on work output. SWCA
would take over the operations of the Department of Irrigation's workshops
at Zwarungu, and would, at cost, provide a maintenance service for the
Irrigation Department's plant and equipment.
11.       The Manager of URPMU would be an ex officio member of the Board
of the Upper Regional Development Corporation and would be Chairman of
Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
12.       URPMU would prepare quarterly and annual reports for simultaneous
submission to URADPEC, Commissioner of Finance, Commissioner of Agriculture,
and external financing agencies.
13.       URPMU's overdraft facilities, arranged with its banks, would be
guaranteed by Government up to an amount equivalent to the approved URPMU
annual budget.
14.       URPMU would be delegated any additional duties and powers by
URADPEC to ensure the attainment of the objectives set out in this Order.






GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT ORGANIZATION
COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE
UPFPER REGION AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
PROJECT MANAGER      |
AGRICULTURAL         ~LAND                    ANMFHSANR                      EEINAR FIHREtyRSR                                                              OMUIAIS                 PLANNING EVALUATIN
TECHNICA SERVICE              DEVELOPMAENT                                                                                                                         ANDERVIAISIAGDAND MONITORING
RESEARCr AN         LAN  LNNN                   RANCH                      ND    I|   N PRONE 
SERESEMULTIPICHATIN     I   AND CLARTONGR    I          RANCHIAIDEVELOPMENT                                      T    N                  CONSVATION    IINFORMATION                      |      PROJECT VAL-
PLANT DUARANT NE  WELLS AND  SMALL FOLDER                                                FRUIT THEE                FUNCTIONAL                  DEVELOPMENT~~~~~~~DEVEOPMEN
AND PRODMULTIPLICETION                                                                                                                   DEVELOPMENT                 ULT LITERACY              PLRTOGRAPHYI 1 DEVELOPMENT I 1 HEALTH I II IIIANIONNG
NUTCRIIO N             CONSERVATION                  EXTENSION INRNGF-FME
-|FARM MANAGEMENT |        |     WORKSHOP      FD|
VI
OFUEI OPMENT       ~~UNITS






GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANOGRAM TO SHOW ASSOCIATION OF PROJECT FUNDED AGENCIES WITH OTHER AGENCIES
ICOMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE
I
UPPER REGION                                                                                          UPPER
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                           W           REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE                                                                                  CORPORATION
*--r    BANK OF GHANA
I    L      -~~~~~~-
PROJECT COORDINATING       -                              PRO ECT N          I                            FARMERS' SERVICES
| COMMITTEE                                        MANAGEMENTr                                      FARMERS SERVICESUNIT  I    COMPANY (URi LTD  Pm    m  COMMERCIAL BANKS  I
commiEI    BOLGATANGA BRANCH
r-  __  L                 n   I  INATIONAL
L----- so  !       _ _INVESTMENT
~~~~~1 ~~~BANK
COMMUNICATIONS AND    L                                  GHANA            I   I
TRAINING DEPARTMENT                           I BROADCASTING CORPORATION   I
ACCRA                                          PLANNING EVALUATION  
I.S.S.E.R                                   AND MONITORING DEPARTMENT r- --                                                            1           MARKTIONG          I
ACCOUNTS AND            |        I             _    _     _     _                              REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIONI
_ PROCUREMENT DEPARTMENTr_                                                    _     _    _OFF ICEI
ICRIOP RESEARCH 
INSTITUTE
_   ADMINISTRATION AND             I                                                       1.          I PrOI0Ct Management Unit
_  PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT         _                                                                         te  rtclAecr
Ij    Olh., Cr,,ick. A9@-C;.
ACCRA (MA)                                                                                        
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                                                                                                        I          I AS OC.-ttd Ag..-I(S e An
. _ _ I I D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ePrtinent
1   _                      F_ __ __ _ ___ n ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~-- - Opeatinnal Linkage
ACCRA (MA)                                          AGRICULTUA                                 I-O--. ~.
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANIZATION                               TECHNICAL SERVICESB C OT   DEVELOPMAR                            E       I             U _       E EscirY Linkage
L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ I                                 Techn;icl Linkae
GHANA HIGHWAY
AUTHORITY                                         LAND DEVELOPMENT
ACCRA MAIDEPARTMENT OFI
DEPARTMENT                                          ANIMAL HUSBANORRY F
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                                                                                                                                                          C
DEPARTMENT OP SOCIAL 
STORAGE AND  _ __ -_ -        WELFARE AND COMMUNITY
ACCRA IMAi         I                        I                                                                      VELOPMENT(URI
DEPARTMENT OF VETERINARY  II                                VA RY                                                       D            U
I  DEPARTMENT DF         I                                  FISHERIES         I
LIII                                                                          W.1d B.k1509anEtEOB2RI
F   ACCRA        I                        I                           I
FORESTRY DEPARTMENT        I                                   ORSRYI






ANNEX 3
Schedule 4
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Unit Organization
Description of Functional Departm2nts
Administration and Personnel Department
1.        The Administration and Personnel Department would be the respon-
sibility of a Chief Administrative Officer. The Department would control all
personnel matters, recruitment, staff transportation, office management,
security and allocation of houses and offices. It would consist of a number
of executive officers each with specific responsibilities. For staff employed
on permanent and pensionable terms, the Department would work closely with the
Establishment Division of the Ministry of Finance to ensure proper transfer of
staff in and out of URPMU, adequate salary increments for performance, and
promotion gradings. For all other employees the Department would be respon-
sible for preparing employment contracts, and advertising for and recruiting
staff in consultation with other department heads and the Project Manager.
2.        It would ensure proper filing and record keeping particularly
for staff benefits and transportation use. It would manage office operations
and be responsible for stationery requirements and servicing office equipment.
Finally, it would be responsible for URPMU security, matters and control of
URPMU's vehicle pool.
Accounts and Procurement Department
3.        This Department would be the responsibility of the Chief Accountant.
The Department would, along with the Project Manager and department heads, be
responsible for the preparation and control of annual budgets. In consultation
with the independent auditors, to be appointed by URADPEC, it would establish
appropriate accounting systems that would provide adequate financial control
and cost retrieval systems commensurate with management's requirements for
decision making and evaluation.
4.        The Department would have responsibility for coordinating and
reporting on the flow of funds to both URPMU and other agencies that draw
on Project funds. This would include the Farmers Services Company, Agricul-
tural Development Bank, Cotton Development Board, and Ghana Broadcasting
Corporation. In particular, the Department would have to ensure adequate
cash flow arrangements with Government and commercial banks.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 4
Page 2
5.        The Department would be responsible for the preparation of invita-
tion for bids and contract documents on the recommendations of the department
concerned. It would evaluate bids and monitor contract obligations of the
suppliers. It would make payments for goods procured and would prepare and
control the proper documents for reimbursement of funds from the external
financing agencies.
6.        The Department would be responsible for the collection and account-
ing of revenues due to URPMU, and would operate an internal audit. The
Department would be responsible for stores control and for the audit of store
control books (excluding FSC stores).
7.        The Department would employ a Legal Officer (lawyer) to assist the
Project generally with all legal matters.
Field Operations Department
8.        This Department would be URPMU's main operational department respon-
sible for Project implementation. It would be headed by a Chief of Field
Operations and would be made up of a number of divisions:
(a) Agricultural Technical Services Division, headed by the Senior
Agriculturist, would be responsible for all aspects of crop
production:
(i) Extension Services would be reorganized as an intensive
operation providing technical advice to farmers. It would
be organized on a district basis and would no longer be
responsible for the distribution of farm inputs. Each
district would be the responsibility of a District Devel-
opment Officer (DDO) who, apart from being responsible for
extension, would be the overall coordinator of all URPMU
activities within the district. Responsible to the DDO
would be from ten to twenty Technical Officers (TO), each
in charge of a farm service center that would serve an
average of 1,300 farmers each. Each TO would be assisted
by two Field Assistants (FA); thus the farmer to staff
ratio would be about 400 to 1, which under the circum-
stances is very adequate. During the early years direct
contact would be more; the ratio in the beginning might
be on the order of 100 to 1. Depending on the success
of the radio broadcasting program the ratios could be
further widened after five years. Extension staff would
be responsible for teaching farmers new technology and
husbandry methods. They would assist both rainfed and
irrigation farmers, and would be responsible for checking
farm sizes, crop areas and requests for farm inputs on
cash or deferred payment basis. An experienced irriga-
tion agronomist with a good background in irrigation



ANNEX 3
Schedule 4
Page 3
management would be employed to work with extension
staff. He would have special responsibility for the
existing Vea irrigation scheme and for developing
small scale irrigation schemes adjacent to URPMU-
constructed dams. Major efforts would be made to
develop informal farmers associations at service center
and village levels; by doing so the extension and
administrative effort would be more concentrated and
effective. Farm mechanization advisors would encourage
and advise blacksmiths and other rural "engineers" to
center their activities at or near farm service centers.
(ii) Cotton Development Section. A special section would be
established under the Agricultural Technical Services
Division to continue the Cotton Development Board's policy
of intensive extension to new cotton growers. This is
particularly important as cotton is a new crop in the
area. Currently, 58 trained cotton agents operate in
the Upper Region. Under the Project they would be
seconded to URPMU on CDB employment conditions. In
those areas where cotton is developed at least one Cotton
Production Assistant (CPA) would be posted to each farm
service center. A CPA would be responsible for training
farm service center Field Assistants and up to 50
farmers. After two years intensive training, the exten-
sion responsibilities would be taken over by the Field
Assistant and the CPA would train another 50 farmers.
CPAs would be supervised by District Cotton Development
Supervisors (one per district). The Cotton Development
Section would be headed by a Senior Cotton Development
Officer, at Bolgatanga, who would be responsible to the
Senior Agriculturist in charge of the Agricultural
Technical Services Division.
(iii) Human Nutrition is included under the Agricultural
Technical Services Division since it reflects on crop
development. Currently there are food deficits in the
hungry season that the Project would endeavor to reduce.
Apart from general crop extension activities the extension
workers would, under the guidance of a Senior Nutritionist,
teach farm families methods of improved nutrition. Most
of this work would be done in the dry season. The Section
would coordinate its activities with ongoing work of the
Christian Services Committee located near Bawku.
(iv) Farm Management. Each district would have a Farm
Management Officer who would provide planning assistance
to the larger farms. The Officer would work with the



ANNEX 3
Schedule 4
Page 4
farmer in developing plans that could be submitted to
ADB for loan application. The vital function of the
service is the recognition that the larger farmer
desperately needs sound farm management advice to enable
a self-sustaining farming system to be developed. A
Senior Farm Management Officer experienced in management
would be stationed at Bolgatanga to supervise and advise
the district officers.
(v) Plant Quarantine and Produce Inspection. URPMU would
continue the plant quarantine and checking system cur-
rently in operation at key border crossing posts. It
would also employ seven district Produce Inspectors (PI)
who would act as arbitrators in quality disputes between
farmers and buyers. Further details at Annex 1.
(vi) Research and Seed Multiplication would be an integral part
of the Project and would include the reactivation of district
agricultural stations. The Project would also support CRI
in its efforts to improve cereal breeding, particularly
adaptive agronomic research and varietal improvement of
maize, sorghum and millet. Full details are at Annex 7.
(b) Land Development Division. This Division would be the respon-
sibility of a Senior Land Development Officer. Land Development
Officers (LDO) would be posted to each district; during the first
year of the Project they would be trained by the Senior Land Devel-
opment Officer. Land development in the early stages would consist
of planning catchment areas to provide skeletal layouts for soil
conservation works, waterways and lines of access. For details see
Annex 9. Each LDO would be responsible for planning, in conjunction
with the District Development Officer, a minimum of 6,000 ha per
annum. As catchment area plans are prepared they would be approved
by the Senior Land Development Officer. The LDOs would have the
responsibility for siting and planning dams; each district would have
a special committee consisting of Project staff and local authorities,
to determine priorities for dam sites and other developments. Dam
site and earth works plans would be kept simple and would receive
approval of the Senior LDP prior to commencement of construction.
Each LDO would be responsible for a small team of surveyors and
linesmen. URPMU would employ professionally qualified engineering
graduates as LDOs, some of whom may be transferred from the Irri-
gation Department.
Special cartographic services would be provided at the headquarters
drawing office in Bolgatanga; the same service would be responsible
for record keeping, filing of maps, designs, etc. LDOs would be
responsible for supervising the SWCA units during the construction
phase, to ensure that design criteria are maintained.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 4
Page 5
The Soil and Water Conservation Working Account (SWCA) would be
under the control of the Senior Land Development Officer; its
heavy equipment units would construct the dams and conservation
works. It would operate on a "commercial basis" and would pay
tractor operators and unit foremen inducement bonuses for work
output. SWCA would have its main office and workshop in
Zwarungu, five miles from Bolgatanga. A Senior Mechanical
Engineer would be in charge of SWCA operations, but construction
work would be initiated only after clearance from the Senior
Land Development Officer. Because of the delays envisaged in
procuring heavy equipment, it is unlikely that any major construc-
tion work would be undertaken in PY 1. However, this period
would be used for organizing SWCA workshops and training staff
and operators, using existing serviceable equipment. SWCA would
be fully operative in PY 2, during which all the units (three)
would work together as a single group, thus allowing better
control. Thereafter the units could be split, one working in
the east, another in the west, and a third would have special
responsibilities for dam rehabilitation. The development program
is quite large; SWCA would have to be staffed with experienced
staff to operate efficiently (details at Annex 9).
The construction of village wells and farm grain stores would
be planned by the Land Development Division, but it would use as
its agent for implementation the Department of Social Welfare and
Community Development. The latter currently assists farmers in
building houses, schools, clinics, etc. Under the Project the
Department would be given the responsibility for the village
well and farm storage program. Using existing staff and liaising
with farmers associations and agricultural staff, the Department
would, with URPMU-procured inputs, provide supervision and
demonstrations for well and grain store construction.
(c) Animal Husbandry Division, headed by a Senior Animal Husbandry
Officer, would establish a program for improving the Region's
livestock. Each district would have an Animal Husbandry
Officer (AHO) who, in conjunction with the DDO, would develop
and extend simple methods of livestock improvement to the
farmers.  The Division would teach farmers better methods of
livestock management, including improved calf rearing and stock
feeding.  Small scale onfarm stall fattening of old work oxen
and other suitable animals would be developed, the latter to
be tested initially on the District Agricultural Research and
Demonstration farms. The Division would be responsible for
ox training, and would arrange for ox training sessions and
demonstrations at the various service centers, following up
such demonstrations with actual onfarm ox training.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 4
Page 6
The Division's main development work during Project implemen-
tation would be the establishment of ten ranches in Tumu
District. The ranches owned and operated by the Region's
cattle owners would be supervised by a Ranch Development
Officer. The latter would be recruited internationally.
Details are at Annex 5.
(d) Veterinary Services Division would be headed by a Senior
Veterinary Officer, and would continue to provide stockowners
with animal health services. Full details are at Annex 5.
(e) Fisheries Division. The Region's existing Fishery Department
is small and poorly staffed. The Project envisages the employ-
ment of a Specialist Fish Culturist who would develop a regional
fisheries policy and would recommend practical management guide-
lines for the Region. The main activities of the Division would
be concentrated on the fish ponds at Vea dam and at three other
larger dams in the Region. The Division would be the respon-
sibility of a Senior Fisheries Officer.
(f) Forestry Division. The existing Forestry Department in the
Upper Region is currently the responsibility of the Ministry
of Lands and Mineral Resources. Forestry staff would be
seconded to URPMU and would form a special Forestry Division
within the Department of Field Operations. A Senior Forestry
Officer would head the Division.
9.        The Department of Field Operations would be closely coordinated at
field and headquarters level. Radio communications systems would be installed
at all district offices and certain key staff would have mobile radios in
their vehicles. Relevant departmental staff would be expected to prepare, on
a regular basis, the basic agricultural content required for GBC regional
broadcasting programs. Senior and specialist staff would be drawn upon to
lecture at training courses at Navrongo Agricultural Institute, and would be
consulted about training requirements for their own staffs.
Communications and Training Department
10.       For complete details see Annex 8.
Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department (PEMD)
11.       A description of the activities of the Planning, Evaluation and
Monitoring Department, including the development of investment plans for those
areas freed of onchocerciasis, are detailed at Annex 10.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 4
Page 7
12.       The Head of the Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring Department
(PEMD) would be an experienced Senior Planning and Evaluation Officer who
would report directly to the Project Manager. The Senior Planning and
Evaluation Officer would be responsible for three sections:
-    an evaluation section;
-    a market monitoring and information section; and
-    a planning section whose main function would encompass
the Onchocerciasis Survey Unit, responsible for the
preparation of a ten-year development plan as well as
future investment programs.
13.       Details of staff requirements for the evaluation and monitoring
sections are at Annex 3, Schedule 6, Table 1; and for the staffing of the
Onchocerciasis Survey Unit, details can be found at Appendix 1 of Annex 10
and Annex 11, Table 1.
March 30, 1976



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Job Descriptions and Qualifications of Senior Staff
Project Manager
1.        The Manager should be an experienced administrator holding senior
positions in either Government or, more preferably, commercial organizations.
Candidates with experience in successful agricultural development projects
involving superior administrative requirements would be given preference.
The Manager need not have formal qualifications in agriculture but should
have proven management capabilities. He should be between 35 and 50 years
old, active, and able to command respect.
2.        The Project Manager would be responsible for coordinating all
Project activities. He would have direct responsibility for the day-to-day
operations of the Upper Region Project Management Unit (URPMU) and would be
Chairman of the Board of the Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. (FSC). His
duties would include:
(a) control and coordination of URPMU funds, with the assistance
of the Chief Accountant;
(b) coordination of Project activities, particularly coordination
of URPMU with associated agencies;
(c) responsibility for URPMU personnel matters, with the assistance
of the Chief Administrative Officer;
(d) reporting URPMU progress to Government on the basis of quarterly
and annual reports;
(e)  other responsibilities as set out in URPMU's terms of reference.
3.        The Project Manager would be responsible to the Chairman of the
Upper Region Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (URADPEC).
His duty station would be Bolgatanga and his initial appointment would be
for three years.
Chief of Field Operations
1.        The Chief of Field Operations should have had formal training in
agriculture and experience in broad-based agricultural development. He
should have had at least ten years experience in a senior position under



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 2
similar development projects or in large public corporations. He should be
able to demonstrate a successful career and a proven record of obtaining
quantifiable results.
2.        He would head the Field Operations Department, which would involve
responsibility for ensuring that the Project's agricultural and related
infrastructural policy is properly executed. He would therefore be directly
responsible for the Agricultural Technical Services Division, the Land
Development Division, the Animal Husbandry Division, the Veterinary Services
Division, the Fisheries Division and the Forestry Division. His duties would
include specifically:
(a) departmental budget preparation and control;
(b) chairmanship of the Technical Coordinating Committee;
(c) quarterly and annual report writing;
(d) membership in the Board of Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.;
(e) collating technical input requirements and developing control
systems to be operated in association with the Farmers Services
Company;
(f) advising the Project Manager on departmental staff requirements
and, in conjunction with Department of Communications and
Training, developing suitable training courses for staff and
farmers;
(g) developing suitable broadcasting information for farmers and
staff, to be programmed by the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation;
(h) developing overall applied research policies within the Region;
and
(i) advising the Project Manager on field operational policies and
annual program of development targets.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager, his duty
station would be Bolgatanga, and his initial appointment would be for three
years.
Chief Accountant
1.        The Chief Accountant would be a professionally qualified accountant
with additional training in business management. He should have had at least
ten years experience in a senior position in a large public corporation or



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 3
commercial company. If possible, he would have a knowledge of banking and
credit procedures. Previous employment working with high ranking government
officials would be an advantage.
2.        His main duty would be the control of URPMU funds on behalf of the
Project Manager. His duties would include:
(a) preparing budgets, cash flows and estimates of expenditure;
(b) ensuring correct application for URPMU funds and their reim-
bursement;
(c) responsibility for URPMU stores control;
(d) coordinating flow of funds, accounting methods and accounts
controls with those other agencies which participated in the
Project; these include the Farmers Services Company, Cotton
Development Board, ADB's Bolgatanga branch office, and the
Ghana Broadcasting Corporation. Applications for reimburse-
ment of funds from external financing agencies would be
processed through his office;
(e) internal auditing of URPMU accounts; and
(f) training accounting staff.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager, his duty
station would be Bolgatanga, and his initial appointment would be for three
years.
Chief Administrative Officer
1.        The Chief Administrative Officer would be a senior and experienced
administrator from the civil service or a public corporation. He should have
a thorough understanding of Government procedures and should be sufficiently
mature and resolute to handle staff relations problems. He would head the
Project's Administration Department.
2.        His duties would include:
(a) responsibility for URPMU personnel;
(b) control of URPMU transportation;
(c) maintenance of office registry;
(d) control of office administration and development of day-to-day
procedural arrangements;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 4
(e) responsibility for URPMU security matters;
(f) preparation and control of administration budget; and'
(g) the training of administration staff.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager, his duty
station would be Bolgatanga, and he would be appointed initially for three
years.
Senior Communications and Training Officer
1.        The Communications and Training Officer should be experienced in
information services, including broadcasting, and should have had experience
in organizing training programs. He would head the Communications and Train-
ing Department. He should be a good organizer and should be able to communi-
cate effectively.
2.        His responsibilities would include:
(a) managing the Communications and Training Department;
(b) developing detailed training courses for URPMU and associated
agency staff;
(c) arranging overseas training or visits;
(d) activating a visual aids section;
(e) ensuring the proper role of public relations;
(f) developing with field operational staff adequate information for
radio broadcasting, and subsequent liaising with Ghana Broadcasting
Corporation;
(g) developing a Project information center, including publications
of extension and other farm literature;
(h) preparing and controlling the Department budget; and
(i) controlling Navrongo Agricultural Institute which, under the
Project, would be used specifically for staff training.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager, his duty
station would be Bolgatanga, and his appointment would be for three years.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 5
Senior Planning and Evaluation Officer
1.        The Senior Project Evaluation Officer should be a qualified agri-
cultural economist with field experience in agricultural evaluation, planning
and monitoring. He should have a good background in evaluation methodology.
2.        He would be head of the Evaluation, Planning and Monitoring Depart-
ment, and his duties would include:
(a) preparation and control of Department budget;
(b) development and implementation of evaluation systems to quantify
the results of Project actions at both farm and regional levels;
(c) assistance in drawing up and evaluating additional Project plans,
and evaluation of any new plans concerning agriculture that might
be prepared by other agencies for implementation in the Region;
specifically, controlling a special Onchoceriasis Survey Unit
that would be responsible for planning investment schemes in
areas freed of onchoceriasis in the Upper and Northern Regions
of Ghana; and
(d) development of a market monitoring system to provide frequent
information to farmers on product prices and market prospects
throughout the Upper Region.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.  His duty
station would be Bolgatanga, and his appointment would be initially for three
years.
Senior Agriculturist I/C Agricultural Technical Services
1.        The Senior Agriculturist would be an experienced senior agricul-
tural officer with at least ten years agricultural experience in Ghana. He
should have proven competence in agricultural administration, good knowledge
of extension systems, an understanding of farm management and farming systems,
and a previous association with research.
2.        He would be in charge of the Agricultural Technical Services
Division and his duties would include:
(a) preparation of division budgets and their subsequent control;
(b) liaising with crop research institute in the development of
seven regional applied-research units;
(c) developing seed multiplication and certified seed production
schemes;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 6
(d) developing farm management capability to assist larger
farmers;
(e) recommending technical input packages, quantities and timing
of supply;
(f) establishing an extension service to support rainfed and
irrigation farmers;
(g) supervising a special cotton development section;
(h) controlling planting materials imports to the Upper Region
from Upper Volta through effective quarantine systems;
(i) improving human nutrition by education programs via agricultural
extension workers;
(j) developing small scale engineering industries such as village
blacksmiths;
(k) advising ADB Bolgatanga on the technical merit of large scale
farmers loans applications; and
(1) providing specialized services to large scale irrigation
schemes developed by the Department of Irrigation.
3.        The Senior Agriculturist would be directly responsible to the
Chief of Field Operations. His duty station would be Bolgatanga and his
initial assignment would be for three years.
Senior Land Development Officer
1.        The Senior Land Development Officer would be an experienced land
planner. His experience would include photogrammetric interpretation of
aerial photography, land use analysis, skeletal land planning, design and
construction of small earthdams, design and construction of soil conservation
work, and administration.
2.        The Senior Land Development Officer would head the Land Development
Division and his responsibilities would include:
(a) land planning and land use survey;
(b) preparation of skeletal development plans;
(c) location and design of dams;
(d) design of soil conservation works;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 7
(e) preparation of plans, drawings and general cartographic work;
(f) control and coordination of the Soil and Water Conservation
Working Account (SWCA);
(g) implementation of the village wells and farm grain stores
program through the Department of Social Welfare and Community
Development; and
(h) preparation and control of divisional budgets.
3.        The Senior Land Development Officer would be directly responsible
to the Chief of Field Operations; his duty station would be Bolgatanga, and
his initial assignment would be for three years.
Senior Animal Husbandry Officer
1.        The Senior Animal Husbandry Officer should have experience in
improvement programs for cattle, sheep, goats and poultry. He should have
had at least five years relevant experience, preferably in the Upper Region,
and should be a good organizer.
2.        He would head the Animal Husbandry Division and his duties would
include:
(a) preparation and control of Divisional budget;
(b) development of ten small ranches (2,000 ha each) in Tumu district,
with assistance from a specialized ranch development officer;
(c) development of small scale farm fattening schemes;
(d) development of simple livestock management and animal feeding
systems in conjunction with the applied research units; and
(e) training of farmers in methods of ox training.
3.        The Senior Animal Husbandry Officer would be directly responsible
to the Chief of Field Operations; his duty station would be Bolgatanga,
and his initial assignment would be for three years.
Senior Veterinarian
1.        The Senior Veterinarian should be an experienced officer with at
least ten years experience in Ghana.
2.        He would be head of the Veterinary Services Division and his
duties would include:



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 8
(a) preparation and control of veterinary services budget;
(b) responsibility for all aspects concerning animal health,
including the operation of animal vaccination campaigns
against endemic diseases;
(c) the monitoring of tsetse fly and trypanosomiasis; and
(d) collection of samples for analysis at Pong Tamale veterinary
laboratories.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Chief of Field Operations;
his duty station would be Bolgatanga, and his initial appointment would be
for three years.
Senior Fisheries Officer
1.        The Senior Fisheries Officer should have worked in inland fisheries
for at least five years, should be experienced in fish culture and should
have proven administrative ability.
2.        The Senior Fisheries Officer would head the Fisheries Division and
his duties would include:
(a) preparation and control of the fisheries budget;
(b) development of Vea fish pond complex and other ponds to be
developed under the Project;
(c) the stocking of dams with fish bred in the ponds; and
(d) extension to farmers on the catching, feeding and processing
of fish.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Chief of Field Operations;
his duty station would be Bolgatanga and his initial appointment would be
for three years.
Senior Farm Management Officer
1.        The Senior Farm Management Officer should have at least five years
experience in practical farm management and two years in advisory work. It
would be advantageous if he had successfully managed a commercial farm in
Africa.
2.        He would head the Farm Management Section and his duties would
include:



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 9
(a) preparation and control of his section's budget;
(b) provision of farm management advice to farmers;
(c) preparation of physical and financial farm plans;
(d) checking farm plans for technical soundness prior to ADB
making loans to large farmers;
(e) advising farmers on farm plan implementation; and
(f) training staff in farm management.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Senior Agriculturist, and
his duty station would be at Bolgatanga. His initial appointment would be
for three years.
Field Research Officer
1.        The Field Research Officer should be qualified in agriculture or
agricultural botany, should have had at least five years experience in agro-
nomic research, and should have managed a research program. If possible, he
should have had experience in seed multiplication and certification schemes.
2.        He would be responsible for the applied research and seed multipli-
cation and demonstration unit, and his duties would include:
(a) preparation and control of section's budget;
(b) establishing seven district applied research units;
(c) setting out simple agronomic trials;
(d) multiplying breeder seed;
(e) coordinating his activities with the Crop Research Institution
of Kumasi and Tamale;
(f) organizing simple cultural and crop demonstrations;
(g) developing an outgrower second and third stage seed multipli-
cation scheme for grains and legumes; and
(h) undertaking seed certification and germination testing.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Senior Agriculturist; his
duty station would be Bolgatanga, and his initial appointment would be for
three years.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 10
Senior Nutritionist
1.        The Senior Nutritionist should be fully qualified in human nutri-
tion and should have good experience in improving nutritional standards in
Ghana.
2.        The Senior Nutritionist would head the Nutrition Section and his
responsibilities would include:
(a) preparation and control of the Section's budget;
(b) training assistant nutrition officers;
(c) training agricultural extension workers in human
nutrition;
(d) preparing nutritional advisory programs for radio
broadcasting and demonstrations; and
(e) following up and evaluating nutrition programs in the
field.
3.        The Senior Nutritionist would be responsible to the Senior Agri-
culturist; his duty station would be Bolgatanga, and his initial appointment
would be for three years.
Fruit Tree Specialist/Horticulturist
1.        The Fruit Tree Specialist should be a qualified horticulturist with
at least five years experience in budding, grafting and nursery development.
Experience with tropical fruits would be advantageous.
2.        He would be responsible for the development of fruit tree nurseries
and his duties would include:
(a) preparation and control of budget;
(b) nursery development;
(c) selection of suitable varieties;
(d) production of root stock;
(e) budding and grafting;
(f) training nursery staff;
(g) training farmers in fruit tree multiplication;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 11
(h) training staff and farmers in management of fruit trees.
3.        He would be responsible to the Senior Forestry Officer; his duty
station would be Bolgatanga, and his initial appointment would be for three
years.
Senior Mechanical Engineer
1.        The Senior Mechanical Engineer should be a fully qualified mecha-
nical engineer experienced in heavy machinery, plant maintenance, and work-
shop control. He should have had at least ten years experience with either
a Government organization or, more preferably, with a commercial company.
2.        He would head the Soil and Water Conservation Working Account and
his duties would include:
(a) preparation and control of SWCA budget;
(b) control of workshops and plant;
(c) ordering spare parts;
(d) developing operating and maintenance schedules;
(e) fuel control;
(f) training mechanics; and
(g) implementing controlled recording systems for unit costing
and performance purposes.
3.        The Senior Mechanical Engineer would be directly responsible to the
Senior Land Development Officer; his duty station would be Bolgatanga and
his initial assignment would be for three years.
Mechanical Engineer (two)
1.        The two Mechanical Engineers should be experienced in maintenance
of heavy plant and light vehicles respectively. Each should have had at
least ten years appropriate experience.
2.        They would work in the SWCA workshops at Zwarungu and their duties
would include:
(a) control of spare parts stores;
(b) maintenance of heavy plant and light vehicles;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 12
(c) operation of mobile workshops; and
(d) training mechanics.
3.        They would be responsible to the Senior Mechanical Engineer; their
duty station would be Bolgatanga, and their initial appointment would be for
three years.
Ranch Development Officer
1.        The Ranch Development Officer should be experienced in commercial
ranching, with at least ten years experience managing a minimum of 5,000 head
of cattle. Preferably he should have ranched successfully in East or Central
Africa.
2.        He would be responsible for the development of ten group or company
ranches, each 2,000 ha in extent, and his duties would include:
(a) acquiring land;
(b) detailing physical planning;
(c) selecting applicants (technical selection);
(d) reviewing applicants' existing herds;
(e) assisting successful applicants in preparing ranch plans and
loan requests to ADB;
(f) assisting in the formation of companies;
(g) assisting owners in managing their ranches;
(h) responsibility for sales and purchase policies, and for the
control of stocking rates; and
(i) training local men as ranch managers.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Senior Animal Husbandry
Officer; his duty station would be in Tumu District, and his initial assignment
would be for three years.
Fish Culturist
1.        The Fish Culturist should be a fully qualified biologist spec.al-
izing in inland fisheries. He should have had at least ten years experience
in fish farming or fish farming research.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 13
2.        He would be responsible for quantifying the financial and technical
parameters for intensive fish-pond farming and less intensive fish production
in dams. His duties would include:
(a) advising the Senior Fisheries Officer on the technical require-
ments for the construction of fish ponds;
(b) providing technical advice on fish pond management;
(c) experimenting with fish species (local to Ghana) and developing
feeding regimes;
(d) developing fish breeding techniques; and
(e) evaluating a fish distribution program.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Senior Fisheries Officer;
his duty station would be Bolgatanga, and his initial appointment would be
for three years.
Functional Adult Literacy Officer
1.        The Functional Adult Literacy Officer should be fully qualified and
experienced in functional adult literacy.
2.        He would lead a small pilot scheme to test functional literacy in
two of the main languages of the Upper Region. His duties would include:
(a) assisting in selecting the two areas and defining their
parameters;
(b) preparing a phased program;
(c) training staff;
(d) implementing the program;
(e) advising Ghana Broadcasting Corporation on back-up radio
services for functional literacy;
(f) evaluating the results of the pilot scheme; and
(g) if successful, preparing a second phase scheme.
3.        He would be directly responsible to the Senior Communications and
Training Officer. His duty station would be Bolgatanga and his initial
appointment would be for three years.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 14
Plant Breeder
1.        URPMU would contract with an international research institute,
preferably the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), for
a Plant Breeder to be seconded to the Crop Research Institute of Ghana.
2.        The Plant Breeder should have an advanced degree in agronomy and
should have at least seven years experience in cereal breeding, specifically
maize, sorghum and millet. He should have a proven record and should be
fully aware of current research programs, particularly those at the Institute
of Agricultural Research, Samaru, northern Nigeria. The Plant Breeder would
receive back-up support from his parent research institute.
3.        The Plant Breeder would be stationed at Manga Research Center, in
the Upper Region, and would:
(a) carry out adaptive research trials on imported improved
seeds from Nigeria and elsewhere;
(b) conduct varietal trials on selected Ghanaian varieties;
(c) conduct fertilizer trials;
(d) conduct mixed cropping trials;
(e) test improved varieties of cowpeas, groundnuts and other
annual crops; and
(f) together with URPMU's Field Research Officer make annual
technical recommendations for crops to the Chief of
Field Operations.
4.        The Plant Breeder would be responsible to the Director of the Crop
Research Institute of Kumasi. His appointment would be for five years.
Irrigation Management Specialist
1.        The Irrigation Specialist should be a professional agronomist who
has extensive experience in managing irrigation schemes. He should have had
at least five years experience on a successful irrigation project.
2.        The Irrigation Specialist would be responsible to the Senior
Extension and Development Officer, and his duties would include:
(a) preparing a plan of management for Vea irrigation scheme, and,
after approval by URPMU and the Irrigation Department, being
responsible for its implementation;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 15
(b) establishing a committee to control the scheme and training
a manager to operate the plan;
(c) planning, in conjunction with the Farm Management Section, farm
plans for individual irrigation farmers;
(d) advising the Field Research Section on the needs for irrigation
field trials;
(e) responsibility for small scale irrigation schemes in relation
to the dam development program.
3.        The Irrigation Management Specialist would be stationed at
Bolgatanga and his appointment would be for three years.
Cotton Development Officer
1.        The Cotton Development Officer would be a senior officer of the
Cotton Development Board and would be seconded to URPMU. He would be respon-
sible to the Senior Agriculturist.
2.        The Cotton Development Officer would be responsible for the opera-
tion of the special Cotton Development Section. His duties would include:
(a) preparation and control of the Section's budget;
(b) establishing proper technical packages for the farmers;
(c) training section staff;
(d) deploying staff;
(e) liaising with the Cotton Development Board in regard to
cotton marketing; and
(f) advising CRI on research requirements.
3.        The Cotton Development Officer would be appointed for five years
and would be stationed at Bolgatanga.
Managing Director (FSC)
1.        The Managing Director would be the chief executive of the Farmers
Services Company (UR) Ltd. (FSC).  He should have had at least ten years
experience in a large commercial company or corporation. He should have
a sound financial background, be a good administrator and have a detailed
knowledge on establishing and managing a selling organization. Experience
in Africa would be extremely relevant.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 16
2.        The Managing Director would be responsible to the Chairman of the FSC
Board of Directors.  His specific duties would include:
(a) establishing FSC as an operational farmers supply and services
company organized on efficient commercial lines;
(b) responsibility for the hiring and welfare of all Company
employees;
(c) preparation and execution of FSC capital investment program;
(d) initial development of FSC Commercial Services Department prior
to appointment of full time Commercial Services Manager;
(e) budget preparation and control;
(f) advising Board on sales policy, pricing, etc.;
(g) advising Board on limits for suppliers' credit to farmers,
and being responsible for the Company's loan portfolio;
(h) coordination with URPMU in determining input type and
quantity;
(i) training district salesmen and store keepers; and
(j) taking inventory of supplies and procuring additional inputs.
Chief Accountant (FSC)
1.        The Chief Accountant for the Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
would be a qualified chartered accountant with at least ten years successful
experience in a commercial organization. Experience in a retail distribution
company would be important. He must be able to demonstrate his proven ability
to establish, operate and control company accounts. He should also be a good
administrator.
2.        The Chief Accountant would be responsible to the Managing Director
of the Farmers Services Company, and his duties would include:
(a) budget preparation and control;
(b) stores procurement and control systems;
(c) recommendations concerning Company's borrowing and investment
policies to Managing Director and Board;
(d) debt control;



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 17
(e) coordination with associated financial agencies; and
(f) Company accounting procedures, cost accounting and cost
retrieval.
3.        The Chief Accountant would be appointed initially for three years,
and his duty station would be Bolgatanga.
Agricultural Services Manager (FSC)
1.        The Agricultural Services Manager for the Farmers Services Company
should be experienced in agricultural mechanization and should be an agri-
cultural engineer. He should have relevant experience in contracting and
engineering.
2.        He would be responsible for the Farmers Services Company's agricul-
tural services to farmers, initially comprising contract hiring of tractors
and combine harvesters to farmers, control of workshops for FSC fleet
maintenance and maintenance of farmers' tractors. He would be responsible
to the Managing Director, FSC.
3.        His duties would include:
(a) budget preparation and control for the Agricultural Services
Section;
(b) deployment of machinery;
(c) maintenance schedules;
(d) advising Board on economic and commercial contractual rates
for hire of equipment;
(e) time recording of equipment use;
(f)  liaison with URPMU's farm management advisors;
(g) training staff.
4.        His initial appointment would be for three years and his duty
station would be Bolgatanga.
Agricultural Loans Officer (ADB)
1.        The Agricultural Loans Officer should be a fully qualified finan-
cial analyst with at least ten years experience working with farmers. He
should have been a senior member of a commercial bank or a development bank.
He should be able to demonstrate his success in farm budgeting and cash flow
analysis.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 18
2.        He would be responsible for advising and training loans officers
in the Agricultural Development Bank's branch at Bolgatanga. His duties
would include:
(a) reviewing all existing regional farm loans and advising on
appropriate action;
(b) reviewing new loan applications, including the ranch loans
included under the Project;
(c) training ADB Loans Officers; and
(d) liaising with URPMU Farm Management Officers and extension
officers to determine ADB Bolgatanga lending policies, including
a review of cooperative development and other forms of group
lending.
3.        He would be responsible to the Manager of the ADB Bolgatanga branch;
his duty station would be Bolgatanga, and his appointment would be for three
years.
Financial Controller to Upper Regional Development Corporation (URDECO)
1.        The Financial Controller should be a fully qualified chartered
accountant with at least ten years experience in company management, financial
control and accounting. Experience related to transportation and wholesaling
would be advantageous.
2.        He would be employed by the Upper Regional Development Corporation
(URDECO) and would be responsible to the Managing Director for the financial
operations of the Corporation. His duties would include:
(a) establishing proper accounting procedures;
(b) developing an internal auditing process;
(c) responsibility for the formation of wholly owned subsidiary
transport and wholesale companies;
(d) advising on borrowing policy;
(e) reorganizing URDECO management and staffing structure where
necessary; and
(f) training management and accounting staff.
3.        He would be responsible to the Managing Director of URDECO; his duty
station would be Bolgatanga, and his appointment would be for three years.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 19
Specialist in Local Broadcasting (GBC)
1.        A Specialist in Local Broadcasting would be retained to advise the
Ghana Broadcasting Corporation and the Project on the development of local
radio broadcasting. The Specialist should be a fully qualified radio pro-
grammer with at least five years experience working with a recognized local
radio that caters to defined urban or rural listeners. The local radio
station from which he is drawn must have catered specifically to educational
purposes as well as to news and local affairs. If possible he should be
experienced in self-operating systems of program broadcasting.
2.        He would be responsible to the Manager of the radio station at
Bolgatanga. His duties would include:
(a) in conjunction with URPMU, assisting the Station Manager in
preparing a suitable broadcasting program;
(b) training broadcasting staff in local radio orientation and
self-operating techniques;
(c) assisting in selecting staff for short overseas training
courses;
(d) assisting in the preparation of suitable broadcasting material
during the first year of the Project, prior to the opening of
the station in Year 2;
(e) analyzing the existing sources from which local material can
be obtained; and
(f) training URPMU staff in techniques and requirements for
broadcasting material.
3.        The Specialist would be appointed for two years and his station
would be at Bolgatanga.
Radio Engineer (GBC)
1.        A Radio Engineer would be retained for six months to draw up
detailed engineering specifications for the establishment of a radio station
at Bolgatanga. The Engineer should have had at least ten years experience
in radio engineering and should have detailed knowledge of local radio re-
quirements.
2.        He would be responsible to the Manager of the radio station at
Bolgatanga and would coordinate his work with the Chief Engineer of GBC and
URPMU management. His duties would include:



ANNEX 3
Schedule 5
Page 20
(a)  substantiating the case for FM or AM mode of transmission;
(b)  preparing specifications for transmitters and receivers at
Bolgatanga, Tumu, Lawra, Wa and Bawku;
(c)  preparing specifications for broadcasting input equipment
(i.e., self-operating control desks, etc.), recording, editing,
etc.;
(d)  in conjunction with the architects, developing suitable specifi-
cations and designs for the transmitting hall, studios, offices,
etc.;
(e)  preparing overall cost estimates;
(f)  drawing up final specifications and tender documents.
For full details, see Annex 8, para 36.
2.        He would be responsible for establishing the radio broadcasting
system and for testing it out in conjunction with GBC engineers.
3.        His employment would be in three parts:
(a)  specifications and tender work;
(b)  evaluation of bids; and
(c)  supervision of construction.
4.        While in Ghana he would be stationed at Bolgatanga.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 3
Schedule 6
Pablo 1
wInM  Rannl                   onuae   PRoOJCT
"*jct1sse.             t t Staff laaiineta
I                S                             A     C            P    S    _                  L            5    T    A                                             
1.  Lad       A t MSaA d   P,iatrtatia          1
ArojetwtSl                                   I                                   2                                   1                                   1                 -                  1                            -
fh-eflf"tofum*2 b                            1*IL                                                             -                                   -      1                             - 
i51 Masets ad  Peeat  (TA)    1*--.~~ -                                           - -        -                                                                              4    
Olsd         ff-hiee     a&Nrt-e-ee-         10                                  -   ---1                     -      1I                                  I-                                                  
AeStt.      tlaer12                                                                                     3            3                                   2                                    3
Stre                                         -    -A     -   -l2    t                                                                                    I--3              -     -    - 
DSlaeeeecffaeeccae3a4l4b3r                                           -                                  1-                 -                 02-61                                                  -                1
ge a-t.  .t-Tal      .       Of           7    S    0               - 12 1       2        -0    -1     2           7 2                    - -1 1         1        -0    -   180            7 3        0        1    1
1. liOd ~AraItmtoe                              -              -a01rI8 0                                                                                                    8es                                  S
1.    oi-cutur.1  ands Tecnicl Srvc
BalerAgriele,   dlae                                     -1II-
Aerith ilpnneffca                           4    3            -                       5     -                  5-2--                               6     1    -7-7
PlaIdAsalt_eAnte          t              -     -     -  70     -          -1420                     -          -180                     -          -      -          1500   --                           ISO        
Ir-l- t.- Naeng  -tOffI-e                    5*--                                                  -1
SedhZ tcaliAdt"' rf-                   --          I--                                --7---7I 
ftatter. SPreduc ierAaat                           3     -  7-14-11-15-17 -7
Par blT.egmlt12 IS4c13er                       221  21 91422 1                                             B     1      201630            4 28         3   17-7030 1                8     2    1    3    3        4 2
Setiorqucrenieeffte 
S-otntw   Andt- PrdceIapc                  --7-7-7-7    -    -21-
Cesarch &Ab Bead24 tlt4nIie4.-t84
Sclar.anarch- fficer                         1*             ----1                                                                                                 --
PleatBreeder     -------                                                                                                                                                             1~~~
Seed  tlttplletie an  lffie                   - 
Seedto Mallpitotn &  aaarb2 a3t-t-1-1-14-                                                                                                                                                                            -4
itirrlttoit ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~                                                                           1                                    I 
Sub-Totl                              12   1          13     10   24      16   21   912  262   142            19     6 2012  133   14   28         23   17 2 130   3      14   28      24   14 2 130   3       14   284



4   '  .4 -   ,**,,* -, -   ' ,,''*'4  4      ''''',*         ,,,,,,    ,,***  0
-    ,','''''',,,',,',,''''''' 44                          ''','''              4    ','"' - 4
'.4,  0  ,,,,,                       44* , ,  4    ''4  '4, 4      ,,,,,,    ,'**' 4 4
o                -I    , 4  .  ,   4  ' 4  ,   4  '4'4''*  -4  , ' 4  , , 44   , '   4  4    4  ' -  ' , -  ,  '  '   -    -
so'
g; -.40
0.1,4    4'''  4  ,,*''''4''  4    '4''''' 4               ''''''         ,,,'4'     4'' 4 , 4
44                                                                            ' ,    4  , '   4    4    4  4
44                                          44'  4      '4   4 4      ,.,,,,    ,,,,  -4         -
4                                                                                               -4       1
0  *4,*'  i   it                                            it;    '.4' '4,' 444
  1                                                                                                                 0
0.4                               4 ' 4  - 4 , ,,,,,,
8        '                                  4-              4
CI - 04                                                       44 4                            4 '4 4
U
U
06.4   '4''' '0  *''''''4''  4    '4'''''' 4                '''         *'*'4'     4'  4 4 4
8
0         -I   .4... 4   ' .4, 4  ''-4'',  -*  ''4''44'' 4            '''''44         .4,4'    *'444
U
0.4                           4   4   -4     - 4
"0'   U
04 W**.**                               ,044' C  ',,',.'       ' '                                   It!
4'        -  -                                 4      4        4      -                                    0'0
'4'''  "4  ' '' "4  '44'    "   ''-''-4'' "4    ''''44               04        '''   4          a1.0
0.4  .o.o                                                  0               0
44                            6'                                                                         49 WI
.4                          0                                           .,       .4                     4'   -  -
*                                                " 0               -      W I                  440041
*      8           o        Co                          00    4                      Ig                 4
4      .0          0       44.         4  0                                                          00"
0     04         44        4' 400  0      0  0          9 4   o  -           040 0
4.44        '40400. 4      4  4          -4
44'        4         04444         4  0             o                                    ol
4 .44    440.4  4   40004
404,0     0.  60    -4400         0 04                                         I
4   04              "ff  t  a
004.44     OC  04      140400      4000004              0   -
a             I                             
0 04'S                I...          040040        0 .0 0
I          3                             "O""   44440.
ui:  nt:              54,,0,,.0...             -   1      00  04444-                        04.0
000440   0044.404400000040   0                       oo       s-oo'o'.oo
41                       I              *0
40  498Z84'                                             - I              0,g,, 00   4044400040 0    1  00.04  460444
8498U  "6' 4.0'.'.-'4  440440,0   4440400         4404044440404444400  0044                      0.400
0..'040   400.400  0   - 044000400    440400.'o0    0..40.,.,o44....4,og 0           490.4!!
094               440004    0 44044440        - 040400440.4                 .88888
4444    044044    0-004.404    444.4400040    $0.4 044           4 40"4040"00 0                         -
494981# IAEi 149 SO.
0.         0.!        2            0.1
4          4          4            4                                4          4
4          4          4            4               4               44         -4            1     .4444444044 00'



GHANA
uPPER REGION AGRICULTUTRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ghana Broadcasting Corporation and Staff for Othet
Agencies 'Upper Region Broadcasting)
Year I                         Year 2                             "ear 3                           YeAr 4                            VcPr5
Category If                        24~~~~~ E    T    A    C    L.   N    E    T    A                        E    T    A    C    L       M    E    T    A    C    L        N     E    T    A     C 
A. Ghana Broadcastling Corporation
1. Program Production
Regional ManagerI---                                                                                                -     --               1     -1
Local radio specialist (TA)           -    -     1                                 '
Controller
Senior Program Organiser----                                                      3     -  -  -    -  3-                       - -  -    -  3-33                                              -    -     -
Plrogram Organiser -        -          -     --                 -      -      - 3    -    -    -         -     -    3    -           -     -     -    3-3                                     -     -    -
Producer -----                                                                          -    - -  -    -  3-                   - -  -    -  3-33                                                    -    -
Senior Progr-mAssistant----                                                       8     -    - -  -    -  8-                   - -  -    -  8-B                                                    - 
2   Nevs Team
ChiefEFditor                          11                                          --1                             ---                              
Senior Reporter           --3                                                                            -    - -3    -        -     -     -3 -                    -       -3                 -          -
Reporter--4                                                                                              -    -    "'4    -4  -                     ---                                   -4 
3. Engineering
Cliief Technical Engineer             I    -          -1--I                                                                                           -      -    -     - 
Engineering Consultant (TA) 2/        -    -     1
4. Administration
Administrative Assistant-                                                                                                                                                                              
Accountant-                                                                             --1-                                               -     1    -1-                                                -
Ac-onts Staff Junior-2                                                                             -2- -    2                              -                 2-2                                      -
Clerical9                                                                                             -       9                9-                -                9-9                                    -
Messengers/Cleaners/Laborers-BB                                                                                                            -     -    -      -    -     B-
Total Ghana Broadcasting Corporation   3    -    2    -    -    -           3    2   25    2    9    8        3    2   24    2    9    8        3    2   24      2    9    B    3    2   24    2    9    B
Incremental                               3    -    2    -           -      -    2   23    2    9    B                                                                                   
Existing                                 I1                         - -    1    2    1    6    6 
Net Incremental                           2    -    2    -    -    -        -    1   21    1    3    2
B.  Other
Agric.ltural Development Bank:
Loans officer Bolgantanga (TA)        -    -    1*   -    -    -        -    -    1* -       - -   -    -           1
Upper Regional Development Corporation
Financial Controller (TA)             -    -     1 -    -           -     --      1* -       -     -     -     -     *
Unidentified specialists  3!-                   -1  -    -               -     --      1    -     -    -      -    -     1
1/  N = Manager; E = Executive; T  Technical; A = Accounting; C- Cleri 7ai:  nd: 1.  Daily employees.a     >
2/6 months only.
M/ an year equivalents for short term consultancies.
* Internationially recruited staff.  TA - Bilateral Technical Assisfo-,-    .- cost to Project.
December 12, 1975



G;HANA
UP~PER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmer Services Company (UR) Ltd.
Staff Requirement
1/                   "'ear1                              Year 2                               Year 3                            f-ear 4                                Year 5
Category             7     E    A    T    C    L    M         E   .A      T  ~C       L     N      9    A    T                   M    E      A    T      C    L       M    E    A    7       C    IL
1.   General Manager                                                                   1*-1-*1-
2.   Commercial Services
Manager                                     I---                                  ---                              1---1-                                                              -
Executive Officers                          -    3-         --                      3--                                 3- -    3                                        -     -                  3    -     -     -     -
Accountant                                     --- 1---1- I                                                              -        --1-1
Clerical                                                           6 -    -    - --- 10                            -          -          1 -           - 13    -         -    - 1             -      -             13    -
District Managers                           7--                   -  -7-- --- -7--  --  -  -7--                                                                             -- 7
District Clerks                             -    -           - 21--             -     -         - 21               -                -   21             -           -          21     -      -    -      -     - 21       -
District Salesmen                           -    7          --7                            -7 -                    -    7-                                                     - -  -    7  -    - 7  7
District Storekeepers                       -    -    -      -     7--          -     -- 7                         -                -    7             -                 -    7    -        -     -     -    -      7    -
District Messengers                                                      7--  -             ---7--  -                            ---7- --                                -- 7-7
Service Center Managers                     -    0-         -    -      -     -    13                              -   17           -                  -   17            -     -    -       - 17        -     -           -
Service Center Store  Keepers               -    -           - 23--             -     -     -        53            -           -         83            -                 -   83      -      -     -     -    -    3       -
Service Center Clerks                       -    -    -      - 23                                    46            -    -        -- 63                 -      -       -- 63          -      -               -     63     -
Sub-Total Commercial Servicea              9   20    -      - 80    7   10   23    -    -  137             7    10   27    -       -187    7    20   27           -     -187        7    10   27       -     -187       -
3.   Agricultural Services
Manager                                     1--              ----1-  --   -                                        1-- --- -1-- ----
Clarks                                            -    -           1                                   -    -   -    I          -     -    - I                                               -  - I
Mechanic/drivers  2/- -    -                                 33                                       -- -  -      3-- -    -                          3-                                         - -  3            - 
Sub-Total Agricultural Services           I    -    -      3    1    -    1                   3    1    -        1     -     -    3    1    -        2     -           3    1    -        I     -     -     3    1      -
4.   Finance and Administration
Chief Accountant (TA)                       1*-      --       -    -       -       ---                         - *--                                   1--
Cost Accountant                             1- --            - -           -1           -          -           - ----
AssistantAccountant- Budget                 1                           1           -     --                   1--                  --1-
Accounts Clerks &Bookeepers  3/                        4-       -          --                                                      -    -  -            -    -                                          65  -    - 6-
Executive Officers  3/                           4-             -          -     -                     4     -    -    -4               -               -    4      -              -4       -                             -
Clerical                                                           5-       -        -    -       -7                                       9-                            -9-  -  - 9-    -99                              -
Measneger and Watchmen 3/- - --   --   - 5--  -  -                                                --5------   5-                                                   -- 5---5
Sub-Total                                 3    4    4      -     5    5    3    4    4    -         7    5       3    4      5    -     9     5      3    4      6    -      9     5      3    4      6    -      9    5
5.   Internal Audit
Auditor                                     I---                          -1---I        -          --       --1----
Assistant Auditor                           -     I --I                                                                     -  -  1    --                                       --                 I    -     -     -     -
Training Officer                                  1 -I   --                   -      1                                   1             
Audit Clerks                                -    -      --    2    -2-               -                4               -     -        -     4             5_________                            _________
Sub-Total                                 1    2    -    -    2    -    1    2    -           -    4    -        1    2    -       -    4     -       1    2    -      -     5     -      1    2    -       -     5     -
Total Farmer Services Company                15   26    4       3   88   12   16   29    4         3  149   12       15   33     5    3  201   12        15   13    6       3  202   12    15   33         6    5  202   12
Incremental Requirement                      15   26    4       3   88   12      2    3      -    -   61    -         -    4     1     -   52      -      -    -      1     -     1     -
1/  M - Management; E - Executive; A -Acc&ArntIng; T - Tectis*ial, .G . IC.*?tca1; L -Labor - 4aily employees.
2/  All other staff included in operating csets charged to far-ts.                                                                                                                                                              c~
3/one executive officer, 1 accounts clerk and 1 messenger for Accra of3ice.                                                                                                                                                 .
I nternationally recruited.
TA- Bilateral Technical Assistance - no cost to ProJect
December 12. 1975



ANNEX 3
Schedule 6
Table 4
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Senior Management and Specialist Staff
1.        The following staff, with satisfactory qualifications and experience,
would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) For URPMU:
Project Manager
Chief of Field Operations 1/
Chief Accountant 1/
Senior Communications and Training Officer 1/
Senior Planning and Evaluation Officer 1/
Senior Land Development Officer 1/
Ranch Development Officer 1/
Plant Breeder (IITA contract) 1/
Agricultural Planner - Onchocerciasis Survey Unit 1/
Senior Irrigation Officer 1/
(b) For Farmers Services Company:
Managing Director 1/
Chief Accountant 1/
2.        The following staff, with satisfactory qualifications and experi-
ence, would be appointed with the approval of URADPEC, FSC, ADB, URDECO and
GBC:
(a) For URPMU - approved by URADPEC:
Chief Administrative Officer
Senior Agriculturist
Senior Animal Husbandry Officer
Senior Veterinarian
Senior Fisheries Officer
Senior Farm Management Officer 1/
Field Research Officer 1/
Senior Nutritionist 1/
1/   Funds approved for internationally recruited staff if local staff not
available.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 6
Table 4
Page 2
Fruit Tree Specialist/Horticulturist
Senior Mechanical Engineer 1/
Mechanical Engineer (heavy plant and equipment) 1/
Mechanical Engineer (light vehicles)
Fish Culturist 1/
Functional Adult Literacy Officer
Cotton Development Officer
(b) For FSC - approved by Board of FSC:
Agricultural Services Manager
Commercial Services Manager
(c) Agricultural Development Bank - approved by General Manager of ADB:
Agricultural Loans Officer - Bolgatanga Branch 1/
(d) Upper Regional Development Corporation - approved by Board of URDECO:
Financial Controller 1/
(e) Ghana Broadcasting Corporation - approved by General Manager of GBC:
Specialist in Local Broadcasting 1/
Radio Engineer 1/
March 16, 1976
1/   Funds provided for internationally recruited staff if local staff not
available.






ANfNEX 3
Scltedsle 7
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bar Chqart on Project Operations
ACTION REQUIREMENT                                  ACTION           FY76             FY77                       FY78                      FY79                       FY80                       FYBI                FY82
AGENCY          A~I                                                                                      AS7AS N JA                                        J A O
NEG       oaLreatitiG OYV 
POP     E=tAI -tn of URIADPEC. URPMU                      GOV7
POP     F     Irnrl-ncotpea-rorrFSC                       GOV/Benkl                                                                       
POP     -rrapi              IIb,rplooS                    GOVE                                    
LE      Ap-1oIltte  f key ,.lfttURPMU &FSC                SOI 
LE       E-obl..ht..tofURPMUbank I---unr                 UGOV     C                               
CE      G-ar-teq  for URP.U                               GOVut50 
CE       FO  .lasino UK -I-rcpatro-                       GOyV                                                                  _ _
OP       E.  680/IUK d.,ore-men  :,-cd_raG VO/IB80/UKI
OP      App..I.t-n Uti f -   rtentrn                      GOV/IBRO/UK
OP       Ap-ointetU Ifai - loca-l                         URPMU/GBC/FSC
OP       Acaurs1iEnt  ft ter  hous-n                       URPMUIFSC            -1£___
PRO      HOUSES & BUiLDINGS FOR 
PRO      -URPMU                                           URPMU                                                                              cr
PRO         FSC                                           URPMU/FSC                           N/        *                                                                        
PRO      -GOC -  .oedcakn                                 URPMU/GBC
MVO         COB -  ilied                                   S                                                                                                           -
PRO      VEHICLES & EQUIPMENTI1
PRO              -1Otennl vhcles, for  OCiFSC/URPMU       URPE
PRO      P-pln&euimn SAWCA                                URPMU/UK--
PRO      -brUaoasin G-9E/UK
PRO      -  ifeiaCOBI
PRO      Faire  -i,Pt                                     FSE                                   EI                                             M E                     M         1                           I _-
COY      E-tknmeh-   of PCC 8, PTC                        GOVI                                                                                                                                               F
COO      Policy papr on p,ic- & ulbs,dI,i                 G OYV
COV      AOEo- votrIie,aEsd,                              GOV
coN      Rado engner                                       OCII
CN     PlI- bStdIe8fg OtaiURPMU
CON      Ovo/rh--ra- S.r-e  L7                            URipmu
0EV     TMUM  RANCHING SCHEME                                                                                           -  
DE'        Sel-t-o of aId onrii-h-                        UFRPMU
0E         Re--- copvyfrmto                              URPMU 
hE    Rvf davI.Ben                                URPMU/O                                                ________
0EV      -FARM DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                  II
DEV      - IIn--for   amIssEo   Projec                    URPMU
0EV       F-        _ mat  no  IIr.rgnup                  URPMU
0EV       E-WEs ,is  inp-   ---i-mrt                      URPM
DEV     --Idarit-  ona -    sles U.RPMU/FSC
DEV         L.og doU---sio                                FSC/ADS 
0EV       0--OetiD-t   & Mf5s 01 irufa                    FSC
DEV      AUOiCOfO f--rmePM
0EV      DAMS & SOIL CONSERVATION                         UBPMU
DEV      -Sit slUsn  & ploO-ing                             RPMU
DEV      -Cu.....io                                        URPMU
DEV      Wells & I- latr sorg                              SWCD
TRN      E-te-i- &             -esuro   tff                URPMU
TRN      CarId d-al-pmena-lt                               URPMU
TRN      N           -trtioRPtaf
TRN      P55PMeU
IRNN     A ccnun-iirg  tllURP U
TRN      Tradr.-Irc  leadersiU M
TRN      Ftmr AeiairldrsURPMU
TRN      SpoilmrgeetUre                                    URPMU
TRN      8.. Rnh,irecmg n                                  URPMU
TRN      Genra co urse I.t local huEootssaN,               URPMU
TRN      Seeri oo. f cc               G.-P ,tc   Ioo  sat  URFMU
TRN      Osereg-t-nig                                      URiPMO
FINANCIAL                                        ADB
PI   _ Budge Fre-tto                                  URPMUIFSCiGBCI
F/N         edIa aPptvu1 by Boards A URADPEC
FIN                 ..otteluit                             URPMU/FSC/ 
REP       Qtttv& .nnual.1Urv                                All
NEG          -Neoainsu d opee-inldg
CE  - Acrinrero menI loan~~~~~~~~~~cId,    'd                                              Ilul
OP            -Qpeatina
PRO             P-    --OOrmnr
0EV                                                                               l eeoeatb.fngdIIome
TRN          -ring
FIN         -FinnePUlctv   t idr-esrsr
REP          - Repring
CON             C.ns1lt-n C-ricr                                                  cn-or.rSncniatr
COB          - Cottn  rolUpreB-cad
SOC          - GI,ano BrUsdceting C.rporeri.n
FSC          - F.,ma,, Ser-ce Compa-  (UIR Ctd
IBRO         -  neraioa Bak tvr Benotir-tio
SWCD            Miitr  f Sca   etr     mmr
D.eipmn
UK           -UiaKau    Uetmn
URAUPEC      - Uppe  RegiU  Ag-irli-.1 D...npen
URPMU           Uppe Regio  Pro/el Menagemevi Unit                                                                                                                                                              vldv-5S






ANNEX 4
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area
Page
A.  General Description      ...................  1
B.  Agriculture .........    ........... *..... .  4
C.  Regional Development ..................      7
Table 1  Regional Population Statistics
Table 2  Regional Agricultural Statistics
Table 3  Area and Production of Major Crops
Table 4  Regional Food Balance Sheet






ANNEX 4
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area
A. General Description
1.        Location.  The Project area lies between latitudes 9 042  and 11010'
N and longitudes 0  and 2 051' W, occupying  a total of 27,312 km , about 11%
of Ghana's land area. It comprises the whole Upper Region which contains
seven administrative districts: Wa, Lawra, Tumu, Navrongo, Sandema, Bolgatanga
and Bawku. The area is bordered by Togo to the east and Upper Volta to the
north and west, the latter boundary following the Black Volta River.
2.        The area lies entirely within the catchment of the Black, Red and
White Volta rivers and is characterized by a gently undulating topography
with slopes of 3-4% predominating. Hills with granite outcrops and laterite
capped mesas rise to over 500 m from levels between 150 to 250 m and generate
considerable runoff which causes natural gullying.
3.        Climate.  Annual rainfall varies from around 950 mm in the north
east at Bawku to 1,150 mm at Lawra in the northwest. Isohyets linking
rainfall stations outside of the Region indicate a zone of lowest precipita-
tion which includes northern Bawku, Navrongo and most of Tumu district.
Rainfall distribution, which is monomodal with a main peak in late August,
is largely confined to the period April to September, giving an effective
wet season of 6-7 months; drought conditions are frequently experienced
during June, a critical period for crop growth. After periods of drought
and at the end of the dry season, rainfall is frequently preceded by hail,
high winds and dust storms.
4.        Mean daily air temperatures decline from a peak of around 320C in
April to a trough of around 25 C in August with corresponding low radiation
and daily sunshine of 4-5 hours. During the dry season the harmattan blows
off the Sahara from the north east and is intensely drying; daily maximum
air temperatures during this period can reach 45 C and result in high evap-
oration from open water.  Night temperatures, however, often fall below 15 C.
5.        Soils.  Upland soils have developed mainly from granitic rocks of
the basement complex. Sparsely populated areas, 50% of the Region, are
usually associated with soils having abundant iron concretions or eroded
coarse, shallow soils with frequent rock exposures. Elsewhere soils are
light, coarse textured, with varying amounts of loosely packed stones and
concretions; stones are frequently used to form contour terraces but



ANNEX 4
Page 2
serious sheet erosion still occurs during the rainy season. Clay content
varies from 6-10% in the surface soils to 20-50% in the subsoil matrix which
can be imperfectly drained.
6.        A distinct toposequence is usually found with shallow soils on the
hill crests and moderately deep soils with colluvial accumulation on the
middle slopes. Valley hydromorphic soils are of mixed alluvial/colluvial
origin and are either heavy or have a light surface and medium subsoil tex-
ture. Cultivation of valley soils is limited by extremely wet or water-
logged conditions during the wet season, but inherent fertility is higher
than adjacent upland soils which are characteristically low in organic matter,
base exchange capacity and total exchangeable bases with medium to medium
high base saturation. Soil reaction is neutral to moderately acid (pH 7 -
5.5).
7.        Ecology.  The Region falls within the Guinea Savannah zone except
for a small area north of Bawku which phases into Sudan zone ecology.
Natural vegetation is Savannah woodland but in the settled areas this has
been reduced to an open parkland where only trees of economic value have
been retained to give a stand of 10-20 per hectare. Predominant species are
Parkia filicoidia (dawa dawa) and Butryospermum parkii (shea butter), with
locally increased numbers of Acacia albidas. Fuel for cooking is scarce, and
sorghum and millet stalks are used for this purpose. Grasses consist of
Andropogon gayanus, Hyparrhenia spp and Hecteropogon spp with, in badly
eroded areas, Aristida spp and Cymbopogan spp.
8.        Riverblindness is endemic in most of the eastern and central and in
part of the western Project areas. As a result most fertile valleys are
unsettled, but increasing pressure of land following population increases
and run-down of the upland soils is tempting owners of ox and tractor drawn
plows to cultivate the main river valleys in sequences involving only short
visits to infested areas.
9.        Population.  The 1970 population census recorded a total of roundly
865,000 persons, which equated to a growth rate of only 1.4% per annum since
the previous 1960 census; this low growth rate is probably explained by
permanent and seasonal migration for work in southern Ghana.
10.       Population distribution varies markedly through the area and
largely reflects soil suitability for cultivation.  Paris of Wa and Lawra
districts have population densities exceeding 50 per km , but elsewhere in
the western and central sectors density falls to less than 5.  5ast of Tumu
district density steadily increases, reaching nearly 100 per km in Bawku
district (see Table 1).



ANNEX 4
Page 3
11.       The population is represented by nine ethnic groups with separate
languages, 1/ none of which serves as a lingua franca. Patterns of kinship
and basic social structure are, however, similar. By tradition, tribal power
is centered or the paramount chief who has subordinate hereditary chiefs.
Each subchieftaincy may consist of several villages each with their own head-
man or village chief who is usually a nominee of the subchief. While the
traditional juridical role of the chiefs is not formally recognized by the
State, they remain the principal authority in village life and close parti-
cipation in Project activities would be essential.
12.       According to the 1970 agricultural sample census, average family
size in the area is 6.8 persons. Settlement throughout is in the form of
scattered compounds usually housing from 2-5 families; a village may comprise
up to 500 compounds involving a number of clan lineages. Compound families
usually operate as basic social units who cultivate and store their subsis-
tance food crops communally, these operations having priority over individual
family farm cultivation. Groupings of compounds are quite common, as is
informal cooperation in certain farming activities. This in-built coopera-
tion will be developed into the formation, under the Project, of farmers
associations, through which extension and other services would operate.
13.       Communication.  The Region has no rail link and all freight has
to be transported either by road via Kumasi (approximately 800 km) or by
road from Tema port to Akosombo on the Volta Lake (85 km), then by barge
to Yapi and hence by road to Bolgatanga (210 km). Only one barge with a
capacity of 200 tons presently operates to Yapi taking four days for the
round trip. Proposals are under consideration, however, for up to nine
additional barges for the lake.
14.       The total road network in the area is roundly 2,000 km providing
partly bituminized connection to district headquarters and an adequate net-
work of feeder roads for an initial Project development phase. Rehabilita-
tion of much of this network is necessary, however, and is included in an
ongoing feeder road improvement program funded by Government under the
Ministry of Social Welfare and Community Development. 2/ Under the IBRD
Second Highways Project, provision is made for maintenance of 50% of Ghana's
22,500 km of feeder roads. Government has assured the Bank in a side letter
to the Second Highways Project that about 800 km of the Upper Region's feeder
roads would receive priority in road maintenance; with this assurance, the
proposed Project could operate without constraint.
1/   Kusaal, Gurenne (Frafra), Buli, Kasem, Sisaala, Chakali, Wali, Dagaari,
Kona.
2/   The responsibility for this program has now been transferred to the
Ghana Highway Authority (GRA).



ANNEX 4
Page 4
15.       The distance from Bolgatanga, the Region's headquarters, to Tamale
airport is 160 km by bituminized road. Telephone services are provided within
Bolgatanga but connection outside and to Accra is only by radio.
16.       Services.  The Region has seven hospitals (four Government, three
mission) with a total of 338 beds. In addition there are 20 health posts and
a further ten due for construction during the current fiscal year. Schools
number 303 primary (31,000 pupils), 130 middle (12,700 pupils), and 15 secon-
dary (3,500 pupils), and there are three teachers training colleges (830 trainees).
The educational effort has so far not achieved popular success, however, and
130 primary schools had to be closed in 1970/71 due to uneconomic enrollments.
Only 22% of the primary age group are in school (compared with 62% for Ghana
as a whole) and 66% of them drop out during the primary course. Some 80-90%
of the population is believed to be illiterate, but most adults are numerate.
17.       Reticulated water supplies are provided for the Region's main towns;
elsewhere people rely on surface (rivers and dams) supplies and shallow wells.
In the eastern sector there is an increasing incidence of dried up wells
which may indicate lowering of the water table, possibly due to increased
runoff resulting from unmaintained conservation works and generally rising
land pressure.
18.       A limited program of assistance for shallow well construction has
been provided in Sandema district, 1/ and an ongoing Canadian financed bore-
hole program aims at supplying one groundwater well for every 300 persons.
This target will not be met in the current phase, however, which provides for
drilling 1,100 wells by the end of 1976; moreover, the distribution of planned
wells shows a heavy concentration in the Navrongo area. A clearer picture
of requirements for wells can be obtained only after a comprehensive inven-
tory of existing water supply facilities. This, in connection with a survey
of rehabilitation requirements for existing wells, is planned under the
Canadian Technical Assistance program.
B. Agriculture
19.       Farming Systems.  Although the pattern of agriculture is fairly
consistent throughout the Region, production systems vary according to
population pressure, incidence of tsetse fly and results of previous devel-
opment undertakings by the Ministry of Agriculture. Thus in the sparsely
populated Tumu district a basic system of bush/fallow cultivation is prac-
ticed where land is cropped for two to four years and then allowed to revert
to fallow vegetation for five to ten years. During the fallow period plant
nutrients are accumulated through the fallow vegetation root system and
transferred to the surface soil through leaf wash and litter fall. A member
1/   33 wells were constructed on a self-help basis in 1973.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
of the land holding group who is first to cultivate a tract of land estab-
lishes the right to use that land for himself and his descendants for as
long as they continue to cultivate it; since farmers are aware of soil
differences and their suitability for different crops, this often results
in a number of plots being established at different sites to take advantage
of available soil types.
20.       To the west and east of the Region where denser settlement patterns
are found, bush/fallow cultivation is combined with, and to some extent re-
placed by, permanent cultivation of land immediately surrounding the compound;
fertility is replenished using household refuse, stock manure and night soil
as well as deliberate inclusion of legumes in the crop rotation. Compound
farms, which are used mainly for food grain production, are often cultivated
communally by compound families and the produce stored in a common granary.
According to land availability, additional individual bush farms are also
cultivated, often at considerable distance (up to ten km) from the compound.
21.       Although cattle are owned by most farmers in the Region, in the
western sector of Wa and Lawra these are normally herded away from the com-
pound by Fulani herdsmen. In the eastern sector, however, a mixed farming
system is often practiced involving use of animal power for land preparation
and deliberate production of farmyard manure which is applied to the per-
manently cropped compound farms. This system was introduced by the Colonial
Administration in the 1930's to check rapid soil deterioration resulting from
high population pressure. Common grazing areas for village cattle are agreed
at periodic meetings summoned by the village chief; farmers who have to
surrender part of their fields do so readily as this is done on a reciprocal
basis.
22.       Various estimates of farm size are available, but these show consid-
erable contradictions both in absolute terms and in the relative differences
between different sectors of the Region. 1/ In attempting to rationalize
these differences, farm size and production estimates have been compared and
overall cultivated area examined on LANDSAT photography. In view of the
rather substantial differences in the various data sources, only rounded
estimates, which reflect the crop production system's general order of magni-
tude, are feasible. A summary is provided in Table 2 and indicates an over-
all average cultivated area of 2.4 hectares per farm family.
23.       Except for commercial state farms and a limited number of mechanized
rice farms in the larger valleys, production is based on smallholder cultiva-
tion. About 120 tractors and around 8,000 pairs of bullocks operate in the
1/   These estimates include the 1970 Sample Census of Agriculture and the
subsequent series of Current Agricultural Statistics. Also available
are various localized surveys; for example, at Bawku district, Field
Study (1969) by Uchenda and Anthony, and crop production information
from the Ministry of Agriculture. Local opinion is usually accurate
on relative differences in farm size between different sectors.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Region, expansion of the latter being limited by the high cost of bullocks 1/
and availability of ox-drawn equipment. Around 80% of farmed land is still
cultivated entirely by hand.
24.       Land Tenure.  Land is a communal asset allocated to community
members according to customary usufruct. Actual ownership is vested in
lineage, and the land, therefore, has a sacral character as the real property
of ancestors. Moral and religious authority over the land, in the name of the
ancestors, is vested in the Tengana or "Priest of the Earth," a custom extend-
ing back to the time before invaders from the north conquered the local
people and mixed with them. The chief's authority is, therefore, more recent
and political, though both share rights of land disposal and allocation.
Individuals normally acquire land by virtue of being a member of the kindred
group; such rights are inherited patrilineally. Newcomers may come to live in
the area by permission of the Tengana and must accept his authority.
25.       Crop Production.  Depending on farm size, 70-95% of cultivated land
is planted to foodcrops, of which early and late millet and tall sorghum
(Guinea corn) are the most important; the latter is secondary to millet as
a food grain, a large proportion of production being brewed into local beer
(pito). In the western sector maize and yams are important constituents of
the diet, usually at the expense of millet production.
26.       Principal cash crops are groundnuts and rice, the latter of more
recent importance following increased ox and tractor cultivation in the
large valleys. Groundnuts are grown by most farmers and attract a steady
trade to the south for oil crushing. Cotton, which is still a relatively
minor crop, is now in strong demand following recent substantial producer
price rises. 2/ Cowpeas and bambara beans, which are common and important
constitutents of the local diet, also enjoy a significant cash trade, and
there is some kenaf production promoted by the Bast Fibre Development Board.
An estimate of the proportion of holdings growing these crops in the eastern
and western sectors is given in Table 2.
27.       Few crops are grown in pure stand and admixtures of four or five
different crops are frequently encountered; as a result, no easy mathematical
definition of the crop production complex is possible, and cropped areas can
be realistically presented only in simple groupings according to the nature
of the mixtures in which they are found. Those presented in Table 3 are
drawn from the various data sources mentioned in para 22, with apparent discre-
pancies and contradictions rationalized as far as possible by observation and
local questioning.
28.       Nutrition.  Market records, nutrition surveys and crop yield esti-
mates indicate a sensitive balance of production in which many families are
susceptible to mal- and undernourishment, particularly in the eastern sector.
Surveys have shown that about 40% of preschool children are underweight,
especially those of poorer families, while family consumption at the end
1/   Presently around US $300-400 each.
2/   From ¢0.08 to 00.35 per lb.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
of the dry season when field operations begin and the work load is heavy is
often 60% of energy requirements, along with serious lack of protein and
vitamins in the foods consumed. The consequences are high infant mortality
due to undernourishment of the mother, retarded mental and physical develop-
ment, and lethargy in adults.
30.       An estimated food balance sheet, based on an average season, is
given in Table 4. Following increased production during Project implementa-
tion, a significant increase in regional food consumption can be expected.
C. Regional Development
31.       Background.  Concentrated attempts to develop agriculture in the
Upper Region date back to the 1930s during British Administration when a
demonstration farm was established at Garu, followed by an agricultural
station at Manga Bawku; operating from these centers, an attempt was made
to introduce ox cultivation and mixed farming systems to smallholders in the
eastern sector where rising population pressure was resulting in serious
sheet erosion and a gradual decline in soil fertility. Though interrupted
by World War II, the work progressed steadily for the next 25 years,
complemented during the 1940s by soil and water conservation works which
extended throughout the Region.
32.       By the late 1950s, ox cultivation and the use of farmyard manure
were widely adopted. District agricultural stations were established in each
of the then six districts 1/ and the Regional Soil and Water Conservation
Unit had established six land planning areas 2/ where controlled cultivation
and grazing systems were practiced, and had constructed 98 dams, 400 miles
of narrow based terraces, 1,670 acres of plantation, 320 acres of bunded
valley rice land and around 300 acres of organized dry season gardens. Out-
side of the land planning areas, bullock farmers were encouraged to follow
the line of permanent three-foot marker (contour) ridges located by the
agricultural extension staff using line levels and marked with an ox plow.
33.       Following independence in 1962, Government agricultural policy was
directed principally to large scale mechanized farming units which were estab-
lished under the United Ghana Farmers' Cooperative Council (UGFCC) 3/ at the
district agricultural stations. Attention to smallholders decreased corres-
pondingly; conservation measures were decried and either neglected or destroyed.
Ox cultivation was discouraged; a meat packing station established in the area
eliminated many animals.
1/   Sandema was originally part of Navrongo District.
2/   At Tomne, Dadora, Sielo-Tuni, Bumbugu, Suarungu and Wiaga.
3/   UGFCC was an integral part of the Convention People's Party.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
34.       UGFCC was disestablished in 1967 after the ousting of the Conven-
tion People's Party. Subsequent efforts have been made to revitalize the
agricultural stations to their original function and retrain farmers in
forgotten techniques. Though capable technicians and experienced demon-
strators exist within the regional extension service, their efforts and
enthusiasm are diluted by shortage of funds and a weak administrative frame-
work for development.
35.       A number of institutions and agencies, other than the Ministry of
Agriculture and its various boards and corporations which have been described
in the main text of this report, are directly or indirectly involved in the
Region's development; their close integration within the overall framework
of the Project would be essential.
36.       Local Government.  At regional level the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment coordinates the functions and activities of all the various ministries
with regard to overall policy objectives of the Government. It is directly
responsible for the district administrations, headed by a district administra-
tion officer, and aided by a district council and a district court. The
district administration operates as an entity separate from the traditional
authority, though one third of council members are representatives of the
house of Chiefs; the remaining two thirds are appointed by the Supreme
Military Council.
37.       Roads and Welfare.  The Ghana Highways Authority is responsible
for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of primary and major secon-
dary roads, as well as a limited number of feeder roads. It operates from
a regional center in Bolgatanga and a number of district substations. The
Ministry of Social Welfare and Community Development is responsible for com-
munity development activities in the Upper Region including rural crafts,
self-help schemes, sanitation, rural housing (roof loan scheme) and an adult
literacy program.
38.       Trade and Industry are the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade
and Industry (MTI) whose commercial operations are directed through the
Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation (GIHOC). The Cannery Division of GIHOC
operates a tomato canning factory in the Upper Region with a daily capacity of
100 tons. Established with Yugoslavian aid, the factory has never been used
to its capacity; total throughput in 1974 was only 100 tons. The Region's
production of about 5,000 tons of tomatoes has mostly been absorbed by private
trade, which is able to offer more favorable prices than the factory, since
at the time of tomato harvest in the Upper Region, supply to the south from
other areas has largely stopped. To ensure supply for its factory, the
corporation has acquired its own farm at Vea irrigation scheme with 160
hectares and hopes to double the area under its own production at a later
stage.
39.       GIHOC Meat Products Division operates a slaughterhouse with a
meat canning factory in Bolgatanga. It buys cattle on the open market and



ANNEX 4
Page 9
transports carcasses in refrigerated vans to Kumasi and Accra for sale in
its own retail shop. The canning factory has a capacity of 25,000 cattle
per year but is presently only 25% used. As experience has shown in other
West African countries where similar canning factories have been established
(Niger, Chad, Cameroon), the present excess of fresh meat demand over supply
does not allow an economic utilization of the established canning capacities;
under the Project the Meat Products Division would compete as a buyer of
cattle produced on the ranches. The Meat Products Division also foresees
ranching operations in the Upper Region, but so far no preinvestment studies
have been made.
40.       The Cattle Development Board of MTI has operated since 1972 as the
monopoly for marketing all imported cattle. Up to March 1973, the Board's
total purchases were 18,380 cattle and 2,300 sheep and goats, but purchases
have considerably increased since then, and the Board is now buying at a
rate of 5,000 cattle per month. Under the Project the Board would act as
importing agency for cattle, either to stock ranches or as draft animals.
The Board plans a breeding/fattening ranch on about 6,000 acres in the
Sandema district; the investment study prepared by the National Investment Bank
foresees total costs for this enterprise of 02.5 million.
41.       Additional commercial undertakings are operated by the Upper
Regional Development Corporation (URDC) which was set up in 1972-73 by the
Ministry of Economic Planning with financial support and guarantee from the
Bank of Ghana.
42.       Special Projects.  Bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic
of Germany was provided in 1970 in the form of a fertilizer distribution
project which was subsequently expanded, with supporting technical assistance,
into the Ghanaian-German Agricultural Development Project (GGADP). Project
activities include fertilizer and variety trials, seed treatment and multi-
plication, land clearing (Northern Region only), rehabilitation of rice mills,
extension staff training and extension aids, bullock training and input
storage construction. In the Upper Region this project has provided seed
and fertilizer storage capacity for about 9,000 tons, mainly as central
stores at regional and district level. Fertilizer and seed distribution in
1974 amounted to 3,519 and 304 tons respectively. Most of the fertilizer
was used for paddy which accounted for over 90% of the seed distributed.
Multiplication of some improved sorghum, groundnuts and maize seed has only
started, but is planned to be expanded as increasing seed multiplication
capacity permits.
43.       Two technical assistance experts work permanently in the Upper
Region, engaged mainly in organizing input distribution and additional staff
training. Two volunteers are building up a training center in the Wa
district. The technical assistance staff work as advisors to the Ministry
of Agriculture. GGADP's final plans for expansion are yet to be finalized
but are expected to include expansion of the Crop Research Institute's
station at Nyankpala (Northern Region) and Manga substation (Upper Region),
with the participation of German universities.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
44.       The Christian Service Committee of the Christian Council of Ghana
operates five agricultural stations attached to missions in the Upper Region
(Garu, and Binana-Bawku district, Nandou-Lawra district, Wiaga-Sandema
district, Bongo-Bolgatanga district). Monitored by a Dutch agricultural
expert at Garu Station and assisted by six Canadian volunteers, these
stations have developed comprehensive agricultural and rural assistance pro-
grams for their surrounding areas. They comprise the following activities,
each of which represents a separate program: agronomic extension, dry season
gardening, tree crop development, poultry and rabbit development, farm stor-
age construction, well building, bullock training and supply of implements,
some farm credit and the formation of credit unions. These stations have
built up valuable experience, but apart from fertilizer supplied from GGADP,
they lack the necessary support to broaden these activities and to put them
on a permanent footing. The Project would benefit substantially from this
experience, which has had the opportunity to screen development techniques
through an intensive approach in a specific area. This work would be com-
plemented by the institutional support of the Project and the opportunity to
expand proven techniques on a regional basis.
45.       The CSC also conducts a nutrition program coordinated by a British
nutritionist. Rehabilitation centers for malnourished children are operated
in Bawku and Lawra where mothers are also taught practical meal preparation
and child care. Mass screening of malnourished children is carried out with
the help of a mobile clinic; a nutrition extension service has been built up
to demonstrate vegetable growing, poultry keeping, meat preparation and child
care. Very little experience of these successful efforts in an area of high
incidence of malnutrition seems to be reflected in the Regional Government
Nutrition Service. Since the church financed programs are in danger of being
discontinued, thus losing also the trained staff, the Project would attempt
to strengthen the Regional Government Nutrition Service by building upon the
experience gained from this program.
December 4, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Population Statistics
Population 1/   Area        Population     Farming
Sector           District            1975          km2                      Population
Wa                     West              Wa             165,000         8,710           19        155,000
Lawra                                    Lawra          135,000        2,810            48        127,000
Tumu                                     Tumu            45,000        6,960             6         43,ooo
Total                                  345 ,000      1 8,480           19        325,000
Sandema                East              Sandema         56,000        2,220            25         50,000
Navrongo                                 Navrongo       106,000        1,640            65         96,000
Bolgatanga                               Bolgatanga     185,000        1,900            97        166,000
Bawku                                    Bawku          236,000        3,080            77        213,000
Total                                  583,000        8,840            66        525,000
T O T A L                                         928,000       2,7320            34        850,000
1/ From 1970 Population Census compounded at 1.4% per annum.
September 12, 1975
51



ANiFJEX 4
Table 2
GHANA
U`PER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Agricultural Statistics
West          East              Total
Farming Population      No.             325,000        525,000           850,000
Av.Family Size          No.                   8.1            5.8               6.8
No. of Holdings         No.              40,000         90,000           125,000
Av.Holding Size         ha.                   3.0            2.0               2.h
Cultivated Area         ha              120,000        180,000           300,000
Holdings Growing:
Millet                %                    85             95                90
Sorghum               %                    35             95                90
Mlaize                %                    40             20                30
Rice                  %                    35             h0                37
Groundnuts                                 75             75                75
Yam                   %                    50              _                20
Mixed Beans           %                    95             95                95
3ambara Beans         %                    1/              -                1/
Cotton                %                    1/                      1/
I  Information not available.
September 12, 1975



ANNEX  .
Table 3
GHANA
UPPER RGI1ON AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area and Production of Major Crops
Pure        Mixed                Mixed
Stand       Predominant          Subidiar
Area Planted               ......... .  ha 
Millet                     25,000        100,000               50,000
Sorghum                     5,000         85,000               50,000
Maize                       5,000         15,000               10,000
Rice                       10,000         10,000                _
Groundnuts                 10,000         20,000               10,000
'ram                        1,000          6,500                6,000
Coupeas                              500                       85,000
Bambara beans                      1,500                       15,000
Cotton                             3,500                        _
Other crops                        2,000                        V
2D Yields                                  kg/ha  ................gh
Millet                        550            150                  350
Sorghum                       600            500                  300
Maise                         800            500                  300
Rice                       1,000             700
Groundnuts                    600            450                  250
Yang                        5,000          3,500                2,000
Cowpeas                              200                          150
Bambara beans                        500                          200
Cotton                               600
Gross Procduction              *00C tons  .................
Millet                         13.8           45.0                 15.0
Sorghum                         3.0           42.5                 15.0
X4a$z*                          4.0            7.5                  3.0
Rlce                           10.0            7.0                  -
Groundnuts                      6.0            9.0                  2.5
Yams                            5.0           22.0                 12.0
Cop eas                                 .1                         12.8
Bambara beans                           .8                          3.0
Cotton                                 2.1                          -
j/ No suitable information available.
September 12, 1975



UPPER REGION AGRICULTURE DEmIDVPMENT PROJECT
Regional Food Balance Sheet
Shortage     Seed       Family        Gross    Shortage    Seed        Family        Surplus
Ios80s    Retention  Cong   tion   Production   Losses  Retention  Consumption  Production
ffi k&g/a              kg   ..........U.......t0 tons
Millet             10         3          500            73.8       7.4       .5          62.5         3.4
Sorghum            12         4          350           60.5        7.3       .6          43.7         8.9
Maize              15         12          t0            14.5       2.2       .4          11.3           .6
Rice                2        60           60           17.0         .3     1.2            7.5         3.0
Groundnuts          2        35           50           17.5         .4      1.4           6.3         9.4
Yams               20     1,500           90           39.8       8.0      20.3          11.5         -
Cowpeaa            15        10           20           12.9       1.9      1.0            2.5         7.5
Bambarabeans      10         25           10            3.8        .4       .4           1.3          1.7
September 12, 1975



ANNEX 5
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
Contents                                                              Page No.
I.  Introduction ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ..... ........................ *.............. ....
II.  The Livestock Subsector ..................................      1
A.  Production Systems ..................................      1
B.  Livestock  Breeds   . .......  .....   ..  ....... ...    ..........  3
Co  Animal Health . ....... ............ . ... .... ........ .    4
D.   Services    .........................  ... ,, ,...........  6
E.  Demand and Supply        ..........................        8
F.  Marketing and Pricing ...... oo         ........ .-.o . .-.o    9
G.   Government  Strategy    .... ..................  -.      11
III.   The Livestock Development Component in the Upper
Region Agricultural Development Project to ...............    13
Ao  General .... ... o... ...-.oo.. ... .............................    13
B.   Animal Health Services              ... .      .... . . .   ,  .13
C.  Tumu Ranching Scheme .      .......       oo....oo .....   15
D.   Animal Husbandry Services              ....    ....o   19
E.   Costs and Benefits   ............    o ..............   20
Table  I Herd Projections
Table  2 Veterinary Services Subcomponent-
Cattle Sales and Operating Costs
Table  3 Veterinary Services Subcomponent-
Incremental Sheep and Goat Sales and Operating Costs
Table  4 Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch - Herd Projection
Table  5 Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch - Assumed
Liveweights, Cattle Prices and Herd Values
Table  6 Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch - Investment Costs
Table  7 Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch - Cattle
Sales and Ranch Operating Costs
Table  8 Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch -
Profit and Loss Statement
Table  9 Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch -
Summary Balance Sheet
Table 10  Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch -
Cash Flow






ANNEX 5
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
I. Introduction
1.        Livestock accounts for less than 5% of the output of the agricul-
tural sector (which in turn accounts for about 40% of GDP). Apart from a
well-developed poultry industry, Ghana's livestock subsector is little de-
veloped. About 750,000 head of cattle, 900,000 sheep, 750,000 goats, 125,000
pigs and 4 million poultry produce only about 40% of the domestic meat
consumption. While marketed milk production is virtually nonexistent, the
country is almost self-sufficient in egg production. However, Ghana's natural
grazing land could support three to four times the present population of
grazing animals.
2.        About three quarters of the national cattle herd, half of the
sheep, goats and pigs, and one quarter of the poultry are concentrated in the
Upper and Northern Regions. One sixth of the national herd is kept in the
coastal savannahs in the southeast. The remainder, mainly sheep and goats, is
scattered throughout the forest area, which separates the two main livestock
producing areas.
II. The Livestock Subsector
A. Production Systems
3.        Traditional Herd.  The majority of livestock is kept in the tradi-
tional sector, with multiple purposes such as (a) meat production; (b) stor-
age of wealth, easily converted into cash; (c) draft power; and (d) social
obligations and status. Even though there are strong incentives to increase
the herds, livestock producers lack management and know-how, and cattle are
susceptible to disease; thus neither optimum offtake rates are obtained nor
are desirable products marketed. Offtake rates are estimated at 9-10% for
cattle (allowing 1-2% herd growth) and 30-32% for sheep and goats. Little is
known about the productivity of pigs and poultry.
4.        Nearly all livestock is owned by sedentary subsistence farmers who
sometimes employ Fulani herdsmen. About one third of the Ghanaian farmers
own grazing livestock and about half of them poultry. However, in the Upper
Region (see table below) over one third of the farmers own cattle, over



ANNEX 5
Page 2
two thirds sheep or goats, and about nine tenths poultry. Herd sizes range
from 2 to 25 head, with only a few larger herd owners.
Upper                       Total
Region                       Ghana
No.                      No.
('000)       %           ('000)         %
Cattle Holders                 41         34              69          9
Sheep Holders                  53         44             184         23
Goat Holders                    79        67             220         27
Poultry Holders                103        87             456         57
5.        Management standards are low and, given the small size of herds, dif-
ficult to improve. Grazing stock are not integrated with crop production, and
livestock frequently graze unattended in the bush or on fallow land. During
the cropping season, livestock are herded to avoid crop damage. At night they
are driven into kraals without access to feed. The absence of supplementary
dry season feeding results in 10-20% losses in liveweight that can be avoided
only when crop husbandry standards improve. Apart from the vaccination cam-
paigns carried out by the Veterinary Services, there is no systematic control
of parasites and disease.
6.        Oxdrawn cultivation, which can increase the crop area per farming
family and reduce labor requirements, is not very common, except in the north-
eastern part of the country. Work oxen rarely receive food supplements
during the cultivating season, and their performance is unsatisfactory.
7.        Given the present neglect of livestock, improvements in animal
husbandry standards have a long way to go, in spite of the vast potential
for additional cash incomes and the growing importance for agriculture (soil
fertility, work oxen).
8.        Commercial beef production comprises 7% of the national herd, with
operations mostly owned by traders or businessmen around Accra. There are a
number of new ventures which could be of major significance for the develop-
ment of the cattle industry. The Bank of Ghana has employed Gunn Rural
Management (Australia) to develop a commercial cattle ranch (3,150 head on
13,500 acres) on the Accra Plains. The Ghana Livestock Company, a joint
venture betweeen Government, ADB and three commercial banks, and assisted
by a US$2 million IDA credit, develops three beef ranches in Pong Tamale,
Tadzewu and Branam, and assists 50 private livestock producers with ranch
development loans and technical services. The Cattle Development Board,
charged with the importation and distribution of slaughter stock, operates
a holding ground for cattle fattening near Accra and a small ranch (Kologu)



ANNEX 5
Page 3
near Bolgatanga. The Board is in the process of acquiring a holding ground
near Prang and at Yapei, both bordering Volta Lake, with the intention of
finishing feeder steers originating from neighboring countries to the
north.
9.        Dairy units, with imported cattle from Canada, the Netherlands and
the UK, have been started in recent years by the Animal Husbandry Division
of the Ministry of Agriculture and by the universities, with mixed results.
There is so far no dairy industry of importance in Ghana.
10.       Commercial sheep and goat farming has been started by URDECO on two
farms, but results have so far been mixed.
B. Livestock Breeds
11.       Cattle.  Over 90% of Ghana's cattle are of the West African Short-
horn type, one of the smallest cattle breeds in the world. Pure N'Damas
and Zebus represent 4% and 1% respectively, and the remainder (about 3%) are
Sanghas - crosses between the humped Zebu and the humpless typanotolerant
W.A. Shorthorn or N'Dama.  Mature W.A. Shorthorn males weigh about 550 lbs;
carcass weights are about 275 and 225 lbs., respectively, for males and
females. They are well adapted to the adverse local environment and have
several advantages: they are trypanotolerant; have an appreciable degree of
resistence to streptothrichosis; respond to higher levels of feeding and
management, and under such conditions are fertile, early-maturing, and produce
carcasses of reasonable quality. However, under existing management condi-
tions, productivity is low, with calving rates about 55%, calf losses 30%,
immature losses 8%, and adult losses 5%; these permit an annual offtake of
9-10% and 1-2% herd growth. The W.A. Shorthorn is unsuitable for milk pro-
duction.
12.       The N'Dama, originating from Guinea, is the largest of the trypano-
tolerant cattle. Under field conditions, mature males weigh about 650 lbs.
and mature females 550 lbs. While there is no proof of the greater efficiency
of the N'Dama in converting herbage into beef, it has a number of definite
advantages over the W.A. Shorthorn: in a situation of low stocking rates,
the heavier N'Dama is able to utilize more grazing; bullocks are stronger,
and therefore more useful as work oxen; and carcasses are bigger and more
acceptable to the urban market. Upgrading the W.A. Shorthorn with the
N'Dama is, therefore, fully justified.
13.       Zebu cattle (mainly White Fulani) occur in very small numbers in
the Upper Region, on Government stations or commercial ranches. They are
not trypanotolerant. Under local management standards, mature males are
estimated to weigh about 770 lbs and mature females 650 lbs. In a tsetse-
free environment or under tsetse protection, the Zebu is preferable to the
N'Dama for upgrading the W.A. Shorthorn because of its larger size, its
better suitability for draft purposes, the superior milk yields of suckling
cows, and the more desirable carcass weight.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
14.       The Sanga, deriving from the cross of humpless cattle with the
Zebu, has several advantages. Being trypanotolerant to a certain extent,
Sanga cattle are more suitable than the humpless cattle breeds under con-
ditions of low tsetse challenge because of their superior size and power.
Mature Sanga males weight about 700 lbs and mature females about 600 lbs
under existing farming conditions.
15.       Sheep and Goats.  The predominant sheep is the West African Dwarf
with a mature liveweight of about 40 lbs. Sometimes they are crossed with
the bigger Fulani sheep. There are plans to import larger sized sheep from
the Sudan to be used for upgrading the local stock. At a lambing rate of
about 90% and death losses of about 25%, the annual offtake is 30%. Worm
infestations and foot rot are regarded as the most important constraints to
the full utilization of the production potential.
16.       The indigenous dwarf goat, weighing only about 35 lbs at maturity,
is extraordinarily fertile, frequently producing twins and reproducing more
than once a year under favorable conditions. Although they receive hardly
any attention, the goats have an estimated offtake rate of about 32%, result-
ing from a reproductive rate of 110%, and 30% mortality for young animals.
Major causes of the latter are internal parasites and pneumonia.
17.       Pigs.  The indigenous pig, a hardy small, long-bodied, black animal
with good disease resistance, is kept mainly as a scavenger on smallholdings.
Commercial piggeries, centered around the cities in the south and based
mainly on imported feed, prefer Large Whites, which are quite hardy in a
tropical climate. The prospects for increased pig production in the Upper
Region are poor because of the high price of pig feed and the long distance
to the consumer centers.
18.       Poultry.  Indigenous fowl, which is mainly kept by backyard poultry
farmers, is small (about 3 lbs liveweight), very hardy, and lays about 30
eggs of about 35 grams each in a lay. They are frequently kept together with
Guinea fowl in a semiwild state and contribute an important source of protein.
Guinea fowl suffer greatly from Newcastle disease; vaccination against the
most important diseases would substantially increase their productivity.
19.       Under improved husbandry, the performance of hybrid poultry is so
much superior that local fowl are not competitive. Due to relatively high
feed prices and long distances to the market, commercial poultry production
has only limited prospects in the Upper Region.
C. Animal Health
20.       Animal health is one of the main constraints to improved livestock
production. Most of the common West African animal diseases remain endemic
and a serious threat to the industry, due to uncontrolled livestock movements,



ANNEX 5
Page 5
unwillingness on the part of the owners to report outbreaks, and inadequate
funding of the veterinary services. Cattle diseases of major commercial
importance are described below (see also the following table):
No. of Animal Disease Outbreaks in 1974
Upper Region        Total Ghana
Rinderpest                                  -                     3
CBPP                                        21                   57
Anthrax                                       1                   9
Blackquarter                                  1                   8
Trypanosomiasis                               7                  16
Tuberculosis                                  1                   1
Newcastle Disease                          N.A.                  41
Rabies                                      -                    40
FMD                                         37                  143
21.       The most important epizootic cattle diseases are rinderpest and
contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP). Rinderpest is now almost under
control but CBPP threatens cattle in many parts of the country in spite
of vaccination cover of one third of the herd. In order to improve the
health situation, it is necessary to increase the annual coverage of
CBPP vaccinations to 80% of the cattle, and to continue vaccinating all
calves once against rinderpest. Anthrax, blackquarter and haemorrhagic
septicaemia occur sporadically, but can be brought under control through
vaccination of all cattle in affected areas before the rains.
22.       Trypnosomiasis, a disease transmitted by the tsetse fly, is
widely spread, and the main cause for the absence of cattle in the forest
and forest savannah zones. It also occurs adjacent to rivers in the open
savannahs of northern and southeastern Ghana. As local cattle possess
a certain degree of tolerance to the disease, acute outbreaks are rare.
Provided that open areas are selected for beef ranching, and that adequate
tsetse clearing methods, or, if necessary, preventive/curative treatments
are used, trypanososiamis should not be an impediment to developing a
cattle industry with imported Zebu cattle, which are more productive than
the local W.A. Shorthorn (para 14).
23.       Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is widespread, occuring in a number
of different strains. Beef output from indigeneous cattle is but little
reduced by disease outbreaks. Apart from quarantining cattle from affected
villages and controlling the health of market livestock, no further measures
are required at this development stage of the livestock industry.
24.       Streptothrichosis, a skin disease, is rampant, and most frequent-
ly fatal to all imported temperate-zone breeds under ranch conditions.
Their crosses with the Zebu, such as the Santa Gertrudas, are also suscepti-
ble. Sahelian Zebu catle are susceptible, but to a much lesser degree



ANNEX 5
Page 6
than exotic cattle. The indigeneous humpless cattle display the greatest
degree of resistance.
25.       Other important diseases are rabies and tuberculosis.  Contagious
abortion appears to be widespread, surveys having shown a positive reaction
of 23% among cattle in the Accra Plains and similar proportions in other
parts of Ghana and in neighboring countries (southern Upper Volta and Ivory
Coast.) Although no investigations have been made in the Upper Region, the
animal health division has been engaged for the past three years in a country-
wide vaccination campaign which, for lack of sufficient funds, covers only
part of the existing cow population.
26.       Worm infestations and starvation are the most important constraints
to increased production, causing high losses and low weight gains, especially
in calves, sheep and goats. Treatment with anthelmintics gives a good measure
of control with a substantial reduction in mortality. At the same time, more
hygienic livestock management, such as improved kraaling and stock watering,
could greatly reduce the hazard of internal parasites. Ticks and tickborne
diseases (redwater, anaplasmosis, heartwater) are relatively unimportant and
can be controlled by regular spraying or dipping.
D. Services
27.       Veterinary Service.  Animal health services are supplied free of
charge and are carried out by the Veterinary Services Division of the Ministry
of Agriculture. Its activities consist of:
-    vaccination for the control of epidemic and endemic
diseases;
-    control of internal and external parasites through
deworming and dipping;
-    control of imported livestock through quarantine
stations;
-    meat inspection in the urban centers;
-    some poultry extension;
-    laboratory testing; and
-    running a veterinary training school at Pong
Tamale.
28.       Animal health services to the Upper Region are subdivided into three
sections. Each section serves one to three districts, which in turn are
subdivided into two to six stations (details in Table 5). The service is



ANNEX 5
Page 7
generously staffed and well managed, but inadequate funds for the renewal
of equipment and the purchase of vaccines and drugs restrict its effective-
ness. Diagnostic services are carried out by the laboratory at Pong
Tamale, but are inadequate and need to be improved. The Ghanaian Govern-
ment has approached Canada for technical assistance in this field. Vac-
cination and deworming campaigns of the Division are shown in the following
table:
----- 1973-----    --------1974------
Ghana  Upper Region    Ghana   Upper Region
'-----------------  000
Vaccinations
Rinderpest                           205        105           276        102
CBPP                                  220       119            89         65
Anthrax                                49         15           41          1
Blackquarter                           64        21            51          5
Banthrax                              -          -             77         28
Trypanosomiasis                        22        -              22         1
Contagious Abortion S/19              -           9             22        13
45/20             65         12            89         33
Newcastle Disease                    N.A.          7          N.A.         9
Fowlpox                            1,455           1        1,633          1
Rabies                                117        23           104         24
Dipping and Spraying
Cattle                                156        16           164          7
Sheep                                  45          3            75         4
Goats                                  25          3            27         2
Pigs                                    9          1            21          2
Poultry                                67          -           108         -
Dogs                                   10          2             8          2
Deworming
Cattle                                118        14           141         17
Sheep                                 147        15           248         18
Goats                                  84         11           117        12
Poultry                               558          7          589          3
Dogs                                    7         -              6         1
29.       Animal Husbandry Service.  The Animal Husbandry Division is
responsible for extension, breeding work and the distribution of improved
stock. Until 1971 the Division promoted poultry very successfully,
operating poultry production and processing centers, including hatcheries



ANNEX 5
Page 8
and feed mills. In that year it handed over its operations to Pomadze
Enterprises Ltd., and since has concentrated on ruminants, mainly cattle,
which are bred on one dairy station and eight beef cattle stations with
about 3,000 animals altogether.
30.       In the Upper Region, animal husbandry services have so far
been restricted to administrative tasks and to operating the five animal
hubandry centers at Doba (pigs and poultry), Babile and Bazua (cattle),
and Busa and Wa (sheep, goats). Due to shortages of staff and funds
(see also Table 16), livestock producers have so far had little benefit
from extension activities, and a strengthening of the service is badly
required. Improved breeding stock is being distributed to farmers from
the animal husbandry stations at subsidized prices: for example, N'Dama
bulls from Wa are sold at 070 and Sanga bulls at 090, equivalent to about
one quarter of their market value. Furthermore, weaner pigs and poultry
are being sold to farmers at subsidized prices.
31.       Research.  The livestock research effort is shared between the
Animal Husbandry Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Animal Research
Institute of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), and
the universities. Work is concentrated in the southern part of the country
centering around pasture improvement, poultry, dairy and beef production.
Pasture, beef, sheep and goat production research for the Northern and
Upper Regions is conducted at Pong Tamale, but this suffers from staffing
problems and financial constraints. UNDP has been approached to give sup-
port to a sheep and goat development project which would operate from a
station in the Ashanti Region and also assist in extension and investiga-
tional work all over the country.
E. Demand and Supply
32.       Demand.  Annual consumption of animal products is estimated to be
about 2,500 tons carcass meat from cattle, sheep and goats, 8,000 tons
poultry meat, 7,000 tons eggs, about 20,000 tons of locally produced milk
from cows and goats, and about 05 million worth of imported dairy products.
At a population of 9.5 million, annual per capita consumption is about 7.6 lb
of carcass and poultry meat, 0.7 kg eggs and 7 kilos fresh milk equivalent.
33.       Price controls and exchange restrictions have led to a de facto
limitation on meat and milk consumption through shortages. There is strong
evidence that more meat would be consumed if it were available. By 1980,
the population would have reached about 11 million, and about 39,000 tons
of carcass and poultry meat, over 8,000 tons eggs, and 78,000 tons eggs,
and 78,000 tons of milk equivalent would be required to maintain present
per capita supply levels.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
34.       Supply.  The bulk of domestic supplies of slaugherstock are con-
sumed in rural areas and towns in northern and central Ghana. The larger
cities in southern Ghana are mainly supplied by slaughterstock imported
on the hoof from neighboring countries to the north (Upper Volta, Niger,
Mali), as indicated in the following table:
Year          Cattle         Sheep         Goats
1969         69,380        17,308        30,313
1970         60,001         9,714        27,889
1971         57,657         9,748        28,123
1972         37,022         4,836         7,560
1973         47,422        11,626        20,369
1974         50,975         9,996        19,451
During 1975, the supply of slaugherstock from Sahelian countries virtually
dried up because the price offered by the Cattle Development Board (CADB) --
40.30 per lb liveweight -- is not competitive with prices offered by other
importing countries (Ivory Coast, Nigeria). CADB is currently importing
low quality meat products from the world market in order to satisfy local
demand. Due to foreign exchange difficulties, the two livestock importing
organizations, CADB and GIHOC, have specific allocations for slaughterstock
imports. In view of the deteriorating supply situation from Sahelian
countries, Ghana will have to import increasing quantities of meat from the
world market if it allows internal demand to be met.
35.       Market demand for milk and dairy products is almost exclusively
met from imports.  Locally produced milk is absorbed by the subsistence
sector. Considering that marketing of milk from indigeneous cattle and
smallstock is not a worthwhile proposition and that a commercial diary
sector is nonexistent, increasing quantities will have to be imported to
meet internal demand.
36.       The commercial poultry sector has increasingly filled the supply
gap of meat. However, partly based on imported feeds and on milling by-
products, this industry is highly dependent on world market grain prices.
F. Marketing and Pricing
37.       Since 1971, foreign slaughterstock suppliers have been required to
channel their herds through five border control posts where they undergo
a nine-day quarantine and compulsory vaccination against rinderpest. In
principle, CADB has the sole right to purchase imported livestock through
the Paga and Mogonori quanrantine stations but recently GIHOC has obtained
special permits to import cattle and meat independently.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
38.       Livestock are weighed when leaving the quarantine stations,
marked with their weight, and transported to various regions by truck.
Most go to Kumasi, Accra, the Bolgatanga meat factory (operated by
GIHOC) and Sekondi/Takoradi. Since demand exceeds supply, the cattle
are allocated to butchers by a "reception committee", whose head, at the
main market, is an army officer. Local slaughterstock are freely traded.
39.       The main final buyers of slaughterstock are butchers who, to-
gether with the livestock dealersk are organized into a national associa-
tion. Slaughter is generally carried out in abattoirs which are owned and
operated by the city councils. In Accra, however, the city council pro-
vides the necessary facilities and also transports the animals and carcasses
at a charge, but slaughtering and dressing are done by personnel employed by
the butchers. Meat retailing is done through supermarkets or through
butchers' shops.
40.       The Meat Products Division of GIHOC is the largest meat processor
in the country. It operates the Bolgatanga Meatworks (a slaughterhouse
and canning factory), the Tema slaughterhouse, a storage depot at Kumasi, and
three meat cottages (meat retail shops) in the Accra-Tema area. Meat is
retailed mostly as "bone-in". Hides are sold to the tannery in Kumasi.
41.       The Bolgatanga Meatworks, a well-equipped modern factory, is not
efficiently used because of shortages of slaughterstock; with a capacity to
slaughter about 25,000 head of cattle per year, the factory has been utilized
only up to 25% since operations began in early 1966. GIHOC has seven refri-
gerated vans to transport carcasses and meat products from Bolgatanga to
the south; these take four days for a return trip to Accra. GIHOC's Meat
Products Division is operating at a deficit. GIHOC has plans to develop a
large pig operation of 1,000 pigs at Bolgatanga, which would produce an
additional 1,700 or so pigs per year for slaughter. The question remains
whether it is possible to produce pork profitably.
42.       Import Prices.  While domestic slaughterstock is freely traded,
CADB is obliged to offer ¢0.30 per lb liveweight for imported cattle, sheep
and goats upon leaving the quarantine stations. Imported stock is sold by
the Board to butchers at a nation-wide standard price of 00.40/lb liveweight,
based on weight marked on the animal at the frontier. Recently the Board has
found it difficult to operate on a spread of t0.10/lb liveweight, including
the payment of 2.5% import tax, of kraal fees for the district councils
(cattle 40.60 - ¢1.00, sheep and goats 00.30 per head) and the transport
cost of slaughterstock to any destination in Ghana.
43.       In 1974, CADB was able to pay competitive prices to attract slaugh-
terstock from Sahelian countries. At an exchange rate of ¢1 = US$0.8667 =
CFAF 208 the border price of ¢0.30/lb liveweight was equivalent to CFAF
137/kg liveweight or about 10% above going rates. Because of the declining
value of the US$ the exchange rate temporarily declined to ¢1 = CFAF 173 in
1975, and the supplier in Upper Volta would only receive CFAF 114/kg



ANNEX 5
Page 11
liveweight or about 10% less than going rates: this explains the failure of
CADB to buy any cattle from neighboring countries in May and June, 1975.
World market beef prices are presently competitive with those required to attract
Sahelian cattle. Thus it is expected that in the long-term, Ghanaian cattle
prices will follow world market levels as the cheapest alternative source
of supply.
44.       Meat Prices.  Although there are price controls for meat, domestic
slaughterstock prices have increased rapidly in recent years. At the time
of appraisal in 1975, prices in the Upper Region had moved to over 00.40/lb
liveweight for local cattle and to about %0.50 for sheep and goats.
45.       The Prices and Incomes Board controls the prices of a considerable
range of commodities, including meat. Current price ceilings set for beef,
mutton and goat are ¢0.90/lb for bone-out and ¢0.85 for bone-in meat. Pig
and poultry prices are not controlled. At the going market rates for
slaughterstock, butchers would not have adequate profit margins; however, meat
is sold in heaps which are not normally weighed. The size and composition of
the heaps containing meat, offals and bones are variable, and this leaves the
butcher enough leeway to disguise the actual meat price charged. There
appears to be no advantage in fixing meat retail prices because the
only effect, if any, would be to reduce the incentives for livestock producers
to invest in the industry and would, therefore, perpetuate the reliance on live-
stock and meat imports.
G. Government Strategy
46.       One of Government's constant aims has been, and still is,
improving nutritional standards in general and protein supply in
particular. In line with this objective, Government has implemented suc-
cessfully a number of poultry and fish production programs over the last
ten years and has paid particular attention to the control of animal disease.
Ghana has thus become self-sufficient in poultry meat and eggs; most epidemic
diseases are presently under control. However, a rapidly increasing popula-
tion, declining slaughterstock supplies from Sahelian countries, uncertain-
ties in the availability and prices of feeds, and a shortage of foreign
exchange, have shifted Government's priorities towards the development and
exploitation of the national pasture resource.
47.       Beef Production has first priority because the main inputs re-
quired -- pasture and, to a certain extent, cattle -- are available. Govern-
ment encourages the development of commercial ranching by parastatal organi-
zations in order to create management know-how and nucleus herds of improved
livestock. Private cattle producers are encouraged to apply for ranch
development loans in order to speed up the growth of the national herd and



ANNEX 5
Page 12
to increase beef output. Government is determined to increase the output
from the subsistence sector through better animal health services, improved
watering facilities and an intensified extension effort to introduce better
production techniques. Government also encourages the fattening of under-
finished slaughter cattle originating from the Sahel. In the Upper Region,
the strategy is to develop cattle ranching where free grassland is presently
underutilized.
48.       Second priority of Government's livestock strategy is given to the
1.7 million sheep and goats in the country; however, this development task is
more difficult than for cattle, because flocks are widely scattered and almost
exclusively kept in the traditional sector. Herd growth and productivity will
be improved by the vaccination and parasite control program of the Veterinary
Services Division. The Animal Husbandry Divsion, assisted by the UNDP sheep
and goats project, is expected to develop practical smallstock production sys-
tems on its stations and demonstrate them to farmers.
49.       The poultry and pig industries have third priority in Government
planning. Poultry is already well-developed, utilizing international tech-
nology. This industry is risky because it relies partly on feed imports,
the prices of which have fluctuated considerably in recent years.
50.       Considerable emphasis is laid on the development of dairying, in
order to meet growing demand and to substitute imports. Current milk producer
prices (about 01.20/gallon) are very favorable, but they preclude milk be-
coming accessible to lower income classes. Milk production with imported
European or Canadian dairy cattle has not yet achieved anticipated yield
levels, and it is questionable whether this high-cost/high-yield production
system is viable under Ghanaian conditions. Crossbreds of European dairy
cattle with indigenous breeds or improved diary Zebus (e.g. Sahiwal) would
probably be more appropriate because they require lower standards of husbandry
and feeding, but they would also produce lower yields. Further investiga-
tional work is required in the dairy sector before extensive investment
programs could be envisaged.
51.       The proposed livestock component for the Upper Region Agricultural
Development Project agrees with Government's livestock development strategy;
its successful implementation would assist in further formulating Government
policy for the subsector and could lead to similar developments in other
regions of Ghana.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
III. The Livestock Development Component in the Upper Region
Agricultural Development Project
A. General
52.       The livestock development component would be the first phase of
a long-range program to increase livestock production in the Upper Region
through animal health measures, development of private ranches, and strength-
ening the animal husbandry service. It would comprise the following subcom-
ponents:
(a) Animal Health: Strengthening of the Upper Region's Veterinary
Services Division, enabling it to carry out efficient vaccination
campaigns against the important endemic diseases and provide regular
treatment of calves, sheep and goats against internal and external
parasites.
(b) Tumu Ranching Scheme: Credit and technical assistance would be
given to cattle producers to develop ten breeding/fattening ranches
on unoccupied grazing land in the Tumu District.
(c) Animal Husbandry: Strengthening of the Upper Region's Animal
Husbandry Division to enable it to carry out investigations on
farm-level pasture and fodder production, small scale beef fatten-
ing, and small scale sheep and goat production; and furthermore,
to intensify extension work to livestock producers.
B. Animal Health Services
53.       Under this subcomponent, provision would be made to undertake the
following treatments for livestock in the Project area:
(a) annual vaccination of all cattle under one year against rinder-
pest;
(b) annual vaccination of all cattle against contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia (CBPP);
(c) vaccination against anthrax and blackquarter of all cattle in
areas where outbreaks occur;
(d) following a survey, annual vaccination of all females under one
year against contagious abortion;



ANNEX 5
Page 14
(e) upon request, vaccination against other livestock diseases
(e.g., lamb dysentery, rabies, Newcastle disease);
(f) regular treatment of calves, sheep and goats against internal
parasites;
(g) upon request, dipping/spraying of livestock for tick control;
and
(h) upon request, prophylactic/curative treatment of livestock against
typanosomiasis.
54.       The veterinary service in the Upper Region is adequately staffed
to operate the improved animal health services envisaged under the Project.
In fact, it would be able to make available some of its junior staff for
other Project subcomponents, such as the Tumu Ranching Scheme. However,
the existing vehicles and veterinary equipment, which were purchased during
the JP 15 vaccination campaign in 1965-68, need replacing.
55.        Under the Project, twelve existing veterinary stations would be
rehabilited, and five new veterinary service centers and one district head-
quarters at Sandema would be constructed, the headquarters to include office
space, cattle handling and spraying facilities, and housing for officers.
Vehicles and equipment required for the efficient operation of the service
would also be purchased.
56.       Vaccinations.  The veterinary field staff would be reorganized
and trained up to a level necessary to carry out the vaccination campaign
as detailed above. All the proposed routine vaccinations would be carried
out at the same time. Thus it would be possible to handle cattle for this
purpose only once a year. Each vaccination team would consist of two to
three vaccinators and three assistants. On average, each team would cover
an area with a cattle population of about 25,000 head, of which at least
80% should be reached by the service.  This would leave sufficient staff
time for deworming programs, spraying or dipping for tick control, and
for the treatment of sick animals.
57.       Deworming and Dipping.  Currently the veterinary service deworms
and dips about 50,000 cattle, sheep and goats annually.  Under the Project,
the deworming campaign would be intensified to cover about 190,000 head/
year at full development. Watering facilities would be provided at each
rehabilitated and new veterinary service center as well as at existing dips,
in order to enable them to render efficient tick control services upon re-
quest. Government intends to continue compulsory vaccinations free of
charge but plans to start asking payments for treatments. The Project
would assist this policy by providing funds for the deworming and dipping
of about 60,000 cattle, 75,000 sheep and 75,000 goats free of charge for
a two-year period. It would provide a revolving fund for drugs to be
sold from the third year on. The intensified animal health program



ANNEX 5
Page 15
would be introduced in three phases, commencing in each one of the three
veterinary sections in consecutive years.
58.       Diagnostic Services.  Government would improve its diagnostic
services at Pong Tamale, possibly with Canadian technical assistance. A
qualified and experienced bacteriologist would be employed to operate the
diagnostic laboratory.
C. Tumu Ranching Scheme
59.       The area selected for ranch development under the project lies
in the western part of Tumu District, about 120 miles west of Bolgatanga
and is bounded by the Gwolu-Zini-Han road to the northwest, the Gwolu-Bullu-
Jeffisi Road to the east, the Jeffisi-Han road to the south and the Dazam
River and Tumu District boundary to the southwest (see map). It is part
of a vast area -- bounded by the Kulpawn and Sisili rivers to the west
and east and by the White Volta to the south -- that is largely flat but
with major depressions along these rivers. The slight undulations of the
terrain form water sheds at its center, separating the catchment areas of
the rivers.   Rainfall averages about 1,100 mm per year, extending over
a six-month rainy season from May to October.
60.       The area has about 40,000 inhabitants (20/sq mile), distributed
over some 120 villages. Away from the main communication routes, the
Region has remained underpopulated and underdeveloped for historical and
health (onchocerciasis) 1/ reasons. There has been more emigration than
immigration, and its population has slowly decreased.  Subsistence agricul-
ture and animal husbandry are the basic economic activities. The road
system of about 160 km of feeder-roads is presently in poor condition but
parts are being repaired by the regional administration; the Region will
then be accessible from the east via Tumu and from the west via Fian-Wa.
61.       In the absence of precise statistics, the area livestock popula-
tion -- belonging to the settled farmers -- is estimated at about 15,000
cattle and 25,000 sheep and goats. Some 4,000 cattle from the Bussie and
Fian areas use the bottomlands during the dry season. There is some wild-
life along the Kulpawn valley, and Government intends to create a game
reserve in an area of about 4,000 sq miles.
62.       Thick soil and lateritic overburden conceal the underlying
geological formation. Rock outcrops are mainly of tor-forming granite.
The formation is not favorable for obtaining water from boreholes. A
number of streams provide natural drainage but are dry most of the year.
As most of the rain is provided by storms, ranch water supplies would
1/   Eradication to begin 1976.



ANNEX 5
Page 16
depend on run-off water collected in valley tanks or dugouts at the foot
of the most favorable catchment areas.
63.       Most of the soils are generally suitable for grassland but in-
adequate for crop production. The ten ranches under the Project would be
established in a suitable, easily accessible but sparsely populated
area of about 50,000 acres along the Dazam river, about 30 miles west of
Tumu. Should they prove successful, a large number of additional ranches
of this kind (about 200) could be established.
64.       The natural vegetation is a fire-climax tree savannah composed
of leafed deciduous trees and perennial and annual grasses. The commonest
tree species are Combretum, Butyrospermum, Parkia, Daniella and Acacia sp.
with a variable density up to 100 trees/ha in places.  Due to regular
burning, the grass/herb spectrum is narrow. The dominant grasses are
Andropogon gayanus and pseudapricus, Pennisetum polystachium, Hyparrhenia sp.,
Loudetia sp, and, alongside the main valleys, Hyparrhenia rufa, Vetiveria and
Echniochloa. The main drawback is the uneven protein and fiber content of
the herbage, in particular its low palatability during the dry season.
At least ten acres are required per beast, in order to permit selective
grazing; through controlled burning, selective bush clearing, deferred
grazing and the establishment of 125 acres grass/legume pastures for each
5,000 acre (2,000 ha) ranch, the grazing requirements per head could be
reduced to eight acres. Weight losses during the dry season would be reduced,
thus increasing overall output.
65.       The ranching area selected has a low population density of about
30 per square mile; about 3% of the land is utilized for shifting cultivation.
These people, represented by their chiefs, customarly hold the right to occupy
the land 1/. When interviewed, farmers in the area favored the development
of modern cattle ranching. Under the Administration of Lands Act 1962, Go-
vernment would declare the ranching area as "grazing land", register it, and
transfer the lend to the ranchers under a long term lease contract accompanied
by a statement of conditions. Payment of compensation to present land users
would be kept to a minimum by selecting ranch sites which are not presently
used for agriculture. The few existing fields within planned ranch boundaries
could be fenced off and continue to be used for cropping until they have to
be abandoned because of declining soil fertility.
66.       Extensive hearings would be held between Government, the Tumu Tra-
ditional Council 2/, the chiefs and headmen of villages adjacent to the ranch-
ing scheme and local cattle producers on the nature and operations. Further-
more, the area would have to be surveyed before Government could declare the
1/   See State Lands-Executive Instrument No. 87 of 11/7/63, Subsection 1 of
Section 7 of Administration of Lands Act 123 - State Printing Press.
2/   Set up by Parliament Act No. 370, 1971.



ANNEX 5
Page 17
area as "grazing land". Disbursements of loan funds by ADB would be be
contingent upon Government's publication of a decree transferring the land
to the ranching scheme.
67.       Company Ranches.  Each ranch would have an area of about 5,000
acres, which would provide initial grazing for 500 and, after development,
600 head of cattle. This herd size would provide an income sufficiently
attractive for a progressive group of livestock producers while at the same
time not becoming too large for the available management staff. Each ranch
would be selected with suitable catchment areas and valleys in order to
channel water runoff into dams or dugouts to be constructed.
68.       Minimum physical developments necessary would be provided, in
order to permit the ranching company to control the enterprise and make
satisfactory progress. This would consist of:
-    Land.  Full control of land and the exclusive right of
occupancy through a long-term lease obtained from
Government, after basic ranch development had been
completed.
-    Access roads, water reservoirs (dugout or dam with
100,000 m3 capacity), firebreaks and fencelines (four
paddocks) would be developed with ranch loan funds.
-    Improved grass/legume pastures would be developed
with the help of contractors on a small proportion
of each ranch (about 125 acres) in order to improve
dry season feed supplies.
-    Cattle purchase loans would be given to buy improved
bulls (Zebu, Sanga or N'Dama) from Government stations
and feeder steers for fattening, from Upper Volta.
-    Technical assistance would be provided through an
experienced ranch development officer, who would
plan and organize basic ranch development and would
guide ranchers from the beginning in solving man-
agerial problems.
69.       Livestock producers eligible for the Tumu ranching scheme should
be living in the Project area. A Ranch Selection Board, consisting of the
District Officer, the Section Chiefs, the Village Headmen, representatives
of the Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Divisions and ADB, and the Ranch
Development Officer, would be appointed by URADPEC to select applicants
with business acumen, integrity, experience and general capacity. Ghana
company law permits up to fifty shareholders in a company. The expected
average number of shareholders is fifteen per company, who will each con-
tribute about twenty of their cattle.



ANNEX 5
Page 18
70.       Leases.  Ranch leases to be approved by URADPEC would initially
be given for forty-five years. The leases would contain 'good husbandry'
clauses, requiring the entry of at least 200 but not more than 400 animals
into the ranch, separating the herd into sex groups and ages, constructing
certain minimal improvements, practicing regular disease and parasite con-
trol, and following appropriate pasture management patterns. If defaulted,
these clauses could allow for withdrawal of title. Each ranching company
would be a single legal entity which would not be allowed to subdivide the
holding among shareholders, but would have to operate a single unit of which
the company would be the sole owner of the cattle and other assets, while
the shareholders would have a claim only to equity.
71.       Land Rent. Instead of the present cattle tax, which is collected
by the District Council 1/, ranching companies would pay a land rent, the
amount of which would be established by URADPEC, in order to recover the
development and operating costs incurred by Government (initial surveying,
costs of the Ranch Development Officer and Accountant, etc.).
72.       Ranch Loans.  Each ranching company would be eligible for two
types of loans offered by ADB:
(a) Ranch Development Loans: for a 13-year term with five
years grace, at an interest rate of 12%. This loan
would be required to pay for ranch development carried
out by Government before ranch allocation and for fixed
investments carried out in Years 1 to 4.
(b) Cattle Purchase Loans: would be available for a 20-month
term, at an interest rate of 12%; they would finance 80%
of cattle purchase (para 69). The Ranch Development
Officer would assist the ranching companies in registra-
tion procedures and in the preparation of ranch develop-
ment plans and budgets, upon which an application would
be forwarded to ADB for a ranch development loan. Cattle
purchase loan applications would be prepared annually by
the Ranch Development Officer and approved by ADB upon
receiving satisfactory evidence that the required 20%
contribution will be produced by the shareholders or
the ranching company management.
73.       Management.  There are no qualified ranch managers available
in Ghana suitable for the Tumu Ranching Scheme. Overseas training of
ranch managers would delay the scheme, make trainees familiar with in-
appropriate technology, and generate income expectations far in excess
of what the ranching companies will be able to pay. Ranching companies
would, therefore, employ Ghanaian staff who are used to working with
1/   ¢1.50 per head of cattle over two years, collected from about two
thirds of existing herd.



ANNEX 5
Page 19
animals, show initiative and, due to lack of academic qualifications, have
no prospects for promotion within the Government service (e.g., Senior
Veterinary Guards). These foremen would be selected in cooperation with
the Ranch Development Officer and the respective ranching company.
Initially, they would run the day-to-day affairs of the ranch under close
supervision of the Ranch Development Officer. Contingent upon satisfactory
performance on the ranch, the foreman would receive instruction in record
keeping and accounting, to enable him gradually to become a fully
competent ranch manager.
74.       The executives of the proposed ranching companies would require
special training to enable them to cope with their new tasks. Upon allocation
of a ranch to a certain company, its directors should participate in manage-
ment seminars to be held at the staff training center at Navrongo, to teach
them functional literacy and the basic principles of the operation of a
company.
75.       The Ranch Development Officer, who would be stationed at Tumu
as part of the Animal Husbandry Division's staff, would stake out the ten
ranches following the hearings to be held (para 67) and Government's decree
to declare the area a "grazing area". Basic ranch infrastructure (para 69)
would be developed under his planning and supervision, in consultation with
the Ranch Selection Board and the Project Manager. After selection of a
participating company, he would assist in preparing ranch development plans,
budgets, loan applications, the running of ranches and the training of ranch
staff and shareholders. He would also supervise the Ranch Accountant to be
placed at Tumu and would assist any other potential investor in the Upper
Region in drawing up ranch development plans. He would be understudied by the
District Animal Husbandry Officer, to be posted to Tumu, who would assume full
responsibility as Ranch Development Officer from Year Six. It is anticipated
that the development of five ranches would commence in Year One and the re-
maining five in Year Two.
D. Animal Husbandry Services
76.       The Animal Husbandry Division would be strengthened to enable it to
carry out a meaningful investigational program and to render effective exten-
sion service to farmers. This would consist of:
(a) development of improved pastures and fodder crops
within a crop rotation system, to be utilized by
cattle, sheep and goats;
(b) investigations on the use of crop residues and by-
products as animal feeds on smallholdings;



ANNEX 5
Page 20
(c) investigations on the feasibility of smallholder stall
feeding of cattle, sheep and goats;
(d) development of feed rations for work oxen based
on local feeds;
(e) development of optimum sheep and goat management
systems at the village level;
(f) distribution of improved breeding stock from Government
stations to farmers;
(g) demonstration and advice for all livestock producers in
the Region.
77.       Staffing.  Animal husbandry staff would be substantially increased
to 28 from the present number of about 15. The five main livestock districts
would have an Animal Husbandry Officer, the remaining two a Senior Technical
Officer; the five Animal Husbandry Service Centers (Babile and Bazua for
cattle, Busa and Wa for sheep and goats, and Doba for pigs and poultry) would
be headed by Technical or Senior Technical Officers. The Ranch Development
Officer would be stationed at Tumu but would be responsible for all advisory
work on ranch development in the Upper Region. He would be assisted by an
accountant for the Tumu Ranching Scheme.
78.       Adequate officer housing and office and transport facilities would
be provided, as well as finance to buy improved breeding stock and to carry
out the investigational work.
79.       Overall responsibility for planning and supervision of the applied
investigational work would rest with the Farm Management Section of the Agri-
cultural-Technical Services Department in close liaison with the Regional
Animal Husbandry Division, the Animal Research Institute of the CSIR, and
the expected UNDP/FAO sheep and goat development project.
80.       The extension effort would be based on a clear assessment of the
farm-level situation. It would be one of the first tasks of the Animal
Husbandry Service to collect information on herd productivity and its
principal constraints. This information would be analyzed in cooperation
with the Farm Management Section of the Agricultural Technical Services
Department and form the basis for the extension approach and for further
investigations.
E. Costs and Benefits
81.       Ranching.  Development costs of the- ten ranches are estimated
to be 41.0 million, to which nonquantifiable general service costs would



ANNEX 5
Page- 21
have to be added. The financial rate of return of company ranches is
calculated at 19% without the general service cost. The ranching scheme
would not reach its full production until Year 14, when the cattle herd
would have doubled from 3,000 before development to 6,000. Incremental
annual output would be 720 slaughter cattle or 135 tons carcass beef, worth
0350,000. Incremental incomes per participating family would reach 01,000.
82.       Veterinary and Animal Husbandry.  The incremental benefits deriving
from the veterinary and animal husbandry subcomponents, as given in Tables 1
to 3, are partly dependent on the availability of additional crop residues
and better watering facilities which are costed under other components of the
Project. Over a twelve-year development period, the cattle herd of the
Region would increase by 25%, and annual herd offtake would increase from
11.7% to 15.7%.  Offtake from the sheep and goat flocks would increase from
30% and 32%, to 35% and 39%, respectively. At an investment cost over five
years of M2.4 million, incremental output in Year 5 would be 6,670 slaughter
cattle, 16,000 sheep and 20,000 goats with a carcass equivalent of about 1,100
tons and an incremental value of 02.9 million. At full production in Year 12,
incremental output would be 25,000 slaughter cattle, 16,000 sheep and 20,000
goats, with a carcass equivalent of about 3,100 tons and worth 08.2 million.
Incremental annual incomes of about 45,000 cattle producers would be about
t140, of the 55,000 sheep holders about 012, and of the 800,000 goat holders
about 09 per holding.
83.      Overall, the livestock component would substitute imports of 3,300
tons carcass meat from Project Year 14 at a value of 08.6 million. In addition,
the livestock component would have important nonquantifiable benefits, including:
(a) demonstration of the beneficial effects of improved
land use, pasture and herd management methods;
(b) development of an integrated crop/livestock production
system for smallholders which can form the basis for
future development projects;
(c) training of Ghanaians in animal husbandry and ranch
management;
(d) introduction of land use rights opening the way for
sustained radical improvement of grazing land;
(e) introduction of credit to traditional livestock pro-
ducers; and finally
(f) improvement of the quality of animals and meat produced.
December 12, 1975



UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPrMNT PROJECT
Veteringry services Sobcorsponeot
Herd Prfelctio.s
Before          ______-___________________-________________,_____-________-Pro3ect Year --------------------    ------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UnIt       Dev.lap,eot            1                 2              3               4                 5               6                 7               8                9               10             11        12-20
Herd C-o-ition
Dulls                       2/3/            No.            18,000          18,000           18,180          18,368          18,642           18,946           19,380            19,804         19,804           19,804           19,804          19,804      19,804
Be-edfig Feles over 3 ye-rS N'.                           140 000         140,000          141,400         142,830         144,964          147,324          150,702           154,000        154,000          154,000          154,000         154,000    154,000
Cetree                                      No.            53,900          13,900           57,232          62,3209         67,701           69,582           70,715            72,337         73,920           73,920           73,920          73,920     73,920
HeEfers 1-2 yers                            No.            24 800          24,80Q           25.063          26,899          298607           32.497           33,399            33,944         34,722           35,482           35,482          35,482      35,482
HeIfer-  2-3 yeses                          No             22 800          22,800           23,064          23,559          25,554           28,423           31,197            32.063         32,497           33,333           34.963          34s063      34.083
M iel  1-2 yeEs                             No.            19,400              00           19.661          21,176          23,373           25,726           26,441            26.871         27,487            28,090          28,090          28,090      28.090
Moles 2-3 years                             No.            13,950          13,950           14,142          14,551          15,882           17,763           19,552            20 095         20,422           20,891           21,348          21,348      21,348
Steers 3-4 yess                             No              7,760           7,760            7,866           7,980           8,306            9,124           10,280            11,446         11,966           12,218           12,579          12.930      12.930
Steers over 4 yeers                         N.             15 390          15.390           155L            15.793          15,402           15.545           16,430            16i359         16.681           16,804           16,755          16.940      16.940
Total Anir e T/                       No            316,000        316,000            22.155        3               349,431           364,930          378,096          386,919         391,499          394,542          396.041         396.577    396,577
BiEths                                         No.            77_        000                   78 400          82,012         85_698            86.978           88_394            90.421          92_400           92.400          924Q            92.400    92_400
Mortality
8olls                                       No.               900             900              720             727             551              559              568               581             594              594              594            594         594
Be-eding Fesle                              No.             7,000           7 ,00            5,600           5,656           4,285            4,349            4,420             4,521          4,620            4,620            4,620           4,829       4,620
Celve                                       No.            23,100          23,100           21,168          19,683          17,997           17,396           17,679            18,084          18,480           18,480          18,480          18,480      18,480
Neifee 1-2 peers                            No              2.150           2,150            1,887           1.717           1,558            1.354            1.392             1.414           1.447            1,478           1,478           1,478       1,478
H.if-re 2-3 yeses                           No              2,000           2,000            1,736           1,504           1,345            1,184            1,300             1,336           1,358            1,389           1,419           1,419       1,419
Mets. 1-2 yeses                             No              2,150           2,150            1,886           1,717           1,558             1,354           1,392             1 414           1,447            1,478            1,478          1,478       1.478
MKlee 2-3 yease                             No              1,550           1,550            1,358           1,180           1,059               935           1.029             1.058           1,075            1.099            1,124          1,124       1,124
Steer.   3-4 yeers                          N.                3520            520              414             420             324               356             401               446             466              476              490            504         504
Steers over 4 yeers                         No.               770             770              616             622             474              462              466               493             491              500              504            503         508
Total Mortelity                                      40_140         40,140            35.385          33.226         29.151            27.949           28.647            29.347         29.978           30.114           30 187          308200      30.205
Bslee
Cell Bulls                                  No              2 100           2,700            2,700           2,727           2,939            3,169            3,410             3,682           3,96             3.961            3,961          3,961       3,961
CWIl CenS                                   N.             13,800          15,800/           31.80f0        15.978          17,140            18,845          20,625            23,378          27,443           27,877           28,713         29,443      29,443
Melee 1-2 Yeers                             N..             5,400           5,400            5,400           5,723           6,233             6 770           6,958,            7.072           7,234            7,392            7.392          7,392       7,392
Mele  2-3 yeers                             No.             3 900           3 900            3               3,933           4,235            4.675            5,145             5.288           5,374            5,497            5,618           5,618      5.618
Steers 3-4 years                            No              2,070           2,070            2,070           2,100           2,157            2,370            2,670             2,973           3.108            3.173            3.267          3,359       3,339
Steers over 4 years                                         6990            6.990            6.990           6,995           7.897            7.701            7.773             9.258          10.633           11.343           11.763         11.891      12.422
Total Sales                                          36 860          36 860           36 860          37 456         40 601            43.530              581            52 251         57,753            59.243          60.714          61,664      626195
Production Data
C   LaiD0  Rete                             2                  55              55                56             58              60                60              60                60              60               60               60              60         60
Mertltity Celvee                            7,%30                              30                27             24              21                20              20                20              20               20               30              20         20
Mortalty If'Y trl e  1-3 yesrs              %                   8               0                 7              4               1                 4               4                 4               4                4                4               4          4
M.rtlity Other                               .                   5                                       5                4               4                3                3
Offtete Rate, Males 1-3 yPers               %                  20              20                20             20              20                20              20                20              20               20               20              20         20
OffteEs RNts. Steers 3-4 years              %                  20              20                20             20              20                20              20                20              20               20               20              20         20
Offtake Rtt, Steer over 4 yesrs             %                  45              45               45              45              50                50              50                60              65               68               70              71         73
BSll Culling Rets                           7                  15              15                13             15              16                17              18                19              20               20               20              20         20
Cov Calling Rate                            %                  11.3            11.3              11.3           11.2            12                13              14               J15.5            17.8             18.1             18.6            19.1       19
Tetal Offtek  Rfte                          7.                 11.7            11.7              11.4           11.2            11.6              11.9            12.3              13.5            14.7             15.0             15.3            1515        15.7
1/ improvemet is pred-tieon c.e. fficirent   od partly derive fSem the improved veterinarxy server sod pertly fro-  ic-re.s.d supplies of crop
by-preduct. sd better  eater .uppli.. doe to the Project
2/ Recruitment of bolls from category males 2-3 yse..
3/ .-oreased c-"ryisg E-puity deriviog from ths Project would p-rmit iRcrease of roe population by 10% and total herd cbooers by 25%.
August 12, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPH8NT PROJECT
Veterinary Serrioee Sncheonent
Cattle Sale. aed Onerettee Ceet.
B:for«           -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------    Y---         -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Liveveight           D oelapsect            1                2               3               4                 5              6                 7            8                 9               10              11             12-20
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------I9/hend ----------_----_______-_____-_-________________-__________________________________________
Cattle PrTcce                       lb/heed
Cull Bull.                        600                     252                282             288              300             324               336            348              354           360              366               366             366              366
Call Co                           450                     171                189             194              203             221               230            234               239          243               248              248             248              248
MaIe. 1-2 year-                    350                     133               147             151              158             172               179            182               186          189               193              193             193               193
Melee 2-3 yre                     420                      160               176             181              189             206               214            218               223          227               231              231             231               231
Steers 3-4 yaare                   500                     210               235             240              250             270               290            290               295          300               305              305             305               305
Steer, aver 4 years               550                     231                259             264              275             297               308            319               325          330               336              336             336              336
S alS .-_ ---------------------------------------------                                                    -------------   _----------------------------------------     OO/   __--------- ___--- ___---__---___ ---___ ---___ ---__ ---___ ----__ ---___ ---_ _ ---___ ---__ _ ---__ _--
Cull BSlle                          -                     680                761             778              818             952             1,065          1,187             1,303        1,426             1,450            1,450           1,450            1,450
Cull Cov                            -2,702                                 2,996           3,065            3.244           3.789            4,334           4,826            3,397         6,669            6.913             7,121           7.302            7,302
Melee 1-2 yr                       7-18 70794                                                815            304             1,072             1,212          1,266             1,315        1,367             1,427            1,427           1,427             1,427
Melee 2-3 yearn                     -                      624               686             706              743             872             1,000          1,122             1,179        1,220             1,270            1,298           1,298             1,298
Stear.  3-4 year.                   -                     435                496             497              525             582               664            774               877          932               969               996          1,024             1,024
-teere over 4 yearn                                     1.615              I SIO          1.845             1.924           2,345            2J372          2.460             .3204         3,509             3,811            3,952          3,995             4,174
Total Salee                   -                  6_ 74               7.523          7_506            8_158           9_611            10 647          11.655           13.465        15,123           15.839            16.244          16i496           16,675
Op-rtinR Co t.                                           ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  t/OOO ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Herding                             -                   1,996              1,096           1,933            2,001           2,097             2,190          2,269             2,322        2,349             2,367             2,376          2,379             2,379
Drgel /                             -                      -                 -                -                 7               13               20             21                23            24               24                24              24               24
Cattle Ta    /                      -                     213                213             217              225             236               246            255               261          264               266               267            268               268
Total Costs                                       2.109              2.109          2,150            2.233            2.346            2.456           2.545            2,606         2_637            2_657             2_667           2-671             2,671
Herd Valne   (t6000)
Befnre Sevelopent:  47,141                              Yeat 12-20 with ProJect   :    83,470
Year 12-20  ithoat Project:    68,398
1/ Asaned to follow World Market beaf peite projeoti-ne,                                  ruliog priore  before devalopcet:  Cull BSll. and Steer   0.42/lb liveweight;
Cull Co-. end Melee 1-3 yere   0.38/lb livecibht.
2/ tS per head/year, neensing that  bnut 50 heed of cattle  (beloaigtn  to .ev-c fSoiliee) wo-ld be herded by one herdeoan earning t0.80 per day.
3/ No.  f amiOal, treated ('000)                                                 YEAR
3                    4                 5               6                7               C-20
CGlf dr .o..hng                15                   35                35              377              35                59
Sprsytmg/dippteg (t 1./htYjj 3                       4                 5               6                7                 8
Tryp-neides carti-ve            2                    4                 6               6                6                 6
prothelsctit        4                     9               15               15              15                 15
_/   1.50/h-ed over 2 year.  old, colleoted from about 65O  of the herds.
Aeg.et 14, 1975



GhANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Veterinary Services Subcomponent
Incremental Sheep and Goat Sales and Operating Costs
Before-----------------------Year -----------------------------------
Unit           Development            1             2             3             4               5               6               7              8             9-20
1/                            _
Treatments                              '000 head
2/
Sheep                                                     18                25           50               70            65              60              60              60             60              60
Goats  3/                                                 12                25           50               70            65             60               60              60            60               60
Incremental Offtake  4/                '000 head
Sheep                                                     -                  3           12               20            18              16              16              16             16              16
Goats                                                     -                  5           16               24            22             20               20              20            20               20
5/
Incremental Sales                      Vowo
Sheep                                                     -                 94          384             667            648            597              619             629           640              651
Goats                                                     -                140          457              714           707            667              690             702           714              726
Total                                                               234           841           1.381         1,355           1,264            1.309          1.331          1.354            1377
On Farm                      6/
Increemental Operating Costs
(To farmers)                 e '000
Sheep                                                     -                 -            -                 2             4              6                6               6              6               6
Goats                                                     -                 -            -                 2             4              6                6               6             6                6
Total                                               -                =             -                4              8             12               12              12            12               12
1/ A concentrateddrenching effort in three selected areas would be started in Years 1, 2  and 3, covering 25,000 sheep and goats each; treatment would be free for two years/
farmers would pay for the drug thereafter; only 80% of the farmers each assuned to continue asking for treatment.
2/ Flock composition 55% mature females, 20% mature males, 14% immature females, 11% immature males.
3/ Herd composition 507% mature females, 18% mature males, 18% immature females, 14% immature males.
4/Assumed   technical coefficients:                                                                        Sheep                                                                    Goats
Without Treatment                         With Treatment                  Without  Treatment                      With treatment
Birth rate                              90%                                     95%                               1107. %l5T
Young' mortality                        25%                                     15%                                30%                                   207%
Adult mortality                           7%                                     5%                                 7%                                    5%
Herd growth rate                          2%                                     2%                                 2%                                    2%
Offtake rate                            30%                                     397%                               327                                   41%
5/Assumed to follow world market beef price projections,                             ; ruling prices before development sheep e 28/head; goats e 25/head.
6/Livestock producers would increase the offtake from existing herds; additional costs for drenching (O 0.10/head) would commence in Year 3 of the campaign.
August 13, 1975



|~~~~-    -,                              I             10  NN       | |;.|||-t<N_ N N N  i |t  N|| NC       Cnr   °   o|g° N    CONN    n -
.I                                |o    |     |0|||           sZN ~ UNI~I  NI NI  N,I  | I|  N n~ )N 0 *  °  ofl N11   R    I N 8N H|
O~~~~~~  NgGonl               II -l -1 @1                               'IiN_       NnN      r   l         R^    oZ 
0100010N1n 111 ^||sl   |                |j|    Cw _~ '0ON N   INN    N|               N        10 n           C    |     N g n  |
01OO0IO   I '0  '0 V                           I     |Hl '-|R  '04~  NI.I ^NNN  Il N1 NbC     Cl-Il  Cli|    R0oNN0 Ia0°   '0
| N   o       _n nG Z  < S °It |N  jl It                            - nlRIi  H-    1    N;l   I N1                                          -   |o| R_ .ao~~ 
C1   e  o       ZI       014 JC  )NO N C  0I 1|N     l         |   n            G _ __N Nl '0  '04N NW II-tnNN 0         r        C  ONx03n     g N o 
I             @CN O N  NNN  N   I | 01|5 C N  e  nl  nl      I   N           IiH_   N I,    N  I          Ni~| |    l        I|       t_ OnC -   
I     - N              I nvl@  R     <    R 40-X      l  15   0 S **|             r    | -.  I  Ii  _        I  I
I             naN WINNN        '0   N        I  l^              I~  N                             IN                                    N   |tl ev           °  nl nr NN<H-    
e 01N.C 0e         e    4 1  N I        C IX C I       NN.INN                      NN        No   ru         COr       CON _     0   1 
01       0I.I  N        I I NE  NE       IN C  Nj;      I  -              1001          NII       Ni  <>S   Ct  NC      INC NI:R!WlE  -            
V            _ N        I   N o          _1  I o                 N        iN 0        I t.1 oI   r|g o o I  e>s>za2v< o                         >zr
I     COIa'0N'0 N ie  e            e      b       v    '0  olo  .NNIINN             . ....3.8Nc  ININ          CCN      CCe       o01 >       >c
I      3 t.c4      4 NI   41  -E           NIN               N            ISI           NIt    r-.  ofi  3                N        !vv -              °x:!oNO   -          -N   Z 



80 a°   .|    80                    01  .0  0   W  4<040   |
044s°                       4048o    se''wE   
00          u 00         °            °  4040   . *  
00           00    0               010           0 °g      °a.S        0    I
401       0001         0040                   .040        400,
804          00    I          I     00           4.v01  , O  .0|'SXe 
0     000                   0             r  000
4 .                      0''040 03                                             00 04
04 44                        01,,0Eaor N1000v 00                                0004
~~~~~~~~.00 ~ ~ ~    ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        s8                           >     
0                    00      0             10              44.4
0044    4040000                    ,,0444            ^, 004.0040l    n°
0                    0,000                  40            04044
0 ~ ~        ~          ~        ~         ~        o 000  0000                                <
e   .                           X                                        S S            £  2 u <4 .000401
_         '                                                                              g408  0444             000S
44        1.      010
000_ 040              000       0                                         0     40
40         00 4    400N^YoV                    Z@->#"^1. 0  004   4040040 Bw 
0.          1000444 _40 _::40                                                        0.0  X __~ .:i       ,      .0  10   .404          _
0     l    o0                                                                                              0    44     4 U            if     v * > voo 
3.0          00      0    0                      044     00u                         0 z                    4.   .4.       000   UUxzXz           ___z



G0KNA
UPPER R6C01i AICUILTUAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranchirk SUbeomoonat - Comsew Ranch (2.000 hb)
lovastmnt Costs
Unit                 Year 1                          Year 2                        Year 3                         Year 4                            Total               o           _L l
Unit           cout             No        oost  No Cost                                        No. Cost                      No. Cost  no.   Cost           Nou. Costt
CATBMY
Fixsd Zovsatunta
Civil Works
Access Treck  1/                         miles              75              2               150                           _                               _                              _              2               150       30G          45         105
Ftirebreaks 21                           Miles              50             12               600                                          _                _             _                _             12               600       301         ISO        420
Duut/Dae   t                               tI            10,000             I            1000                                                                                                           I            10000        301       3,000      7,000
TneotS  4'                               hIss                350            9             4.950            9            4,950                                                                          i -  18        9 900       6o       53,940       3,960
Cattle Randling Yard                       No.              250             1               250           -               -               -               -                                             1               230       30.          75         175
bousing  foremo                            No,            3,000             1             3,000           -               -                                                                             1 -  -  I     3.000       301         900       2,100
sousing Herdsmon                           No.            1.500             2             3,000           -               _               _                              2             3,000            4             6,000       301       1.00       4,200
Office/Store                               No,            1,000             1             1.000           -                                                                                             I _  I  1       000                   300         700
Rub-total                                                                           22                               950                                                           39000          30 900                    1j24 0              U    `_
Pasture DSwl*V_ne
Lead Clerhag  S/                         Acres                             25               200           SO              400             50              400           -                -            125             1.000                  -          1 000
Laud Preparatiou/leading 6/              Acres                8            25             1.450           50            2,900             50            2,900           -                -            125             7,250       301       2,175       5.075
Ferttlieer   1.                            t                229             1.1             252            2.2            504              2.2            504           -                -              5.5            1,260       90%      1,134         126
seed*   t/                                 lb                 5           125               623          250           1250             250            1.250           -                             625             3.125          2      25GO          v2
Sub-total                                                                             2 S27                         5.054                          5054                                                         12.635       4g        S 6Gi       6 826
OX-Cart, Yoke-Set. Ropes   /               No.              240             1               240           -               -               -               -             -                -               1               240       801         192         48
21ll Iquipm_t                                               -                                 0           -               -               -               -             -                 -             -                 SO                   40          10
Spraypt ,m  / VNo.                                           40             2                80o          -       -                      --              _              -                -               2                so       OOSJ&                   -
Sub-total                                                                               370                          _                -               -                              _                                70
Cattl*
ulll                                      Iwe                               4             1.600            4            1.600             -               -              2              1,000           10             4,200       753       3,150      1,050
Weede  Steare                              No.                             50            11 750           S0 1200                         SO           12.500            SO           13.500           200            49.750       71       373 ,3U    72U7
Sub-total                                                                            13 350                        13,600                          12 500                         14.500                          53.950      .40,6                1L7
TOTAL                                                      39 97                                                   23.604                          17.354                         17.500                          97.855                mm 057
Phyuical Coutieanete  5r)  1-I/                                                       1,292                           SOO                             253                             ISO                          2,195       oOl      21317         178
TOTAL  t          T                                                                  400489                        24.104                          17 807                         17_650                           0050       Jil    ..60G In
1/ Carriod out by 10, 3 hr/mile 6 t 25.  *    7SA/ile.
I/ Cred oct by IICA. 2 be /nile a   25. .            SO/. Lla
Tbo rm in   Acte (skeut C 6,000)  ould not be obhrped to the ranches, becaue of the Sanral benefits se a   il conrvati0  matsure.
12 mles for perimeter fmgg. 1   ile for d   snd pFeture protectton, S wiles for pad4ocking; 3   t v"elozally out or_1 ivpostsi to be giro not on contr-Ct.
10 _n-day  per voref # 0 9pr da             a * I Ie.
I Carrted out by toetraetcr:  plouki            22 lers
srwr=yoa     *  2j ,re
seeding      f    _/I  r
0/ 100 lb. single   o Wpepbcpae   at 7!flv *29te
S Ib/    t C  S -pr lb.
/o-cart C 210G Toke-eat C 15, Roes C 5.
O/uket _~ silk turves
ib   pttig  liveatock  cattle pureses.
hcpWt 18, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1



GHOAN
UPPERK RBGION AMICOLTONAL ZRIVEL0104NT PROJECT
R..obias S.booe,v.e,t - foM,e,Y Raaoh (2.000 h.)
cattle ."Sl. 0.84 sAV     Operating Costs
DavalaPeont                    1                 2                 3                 4                 5                 6                 7                 0                 9                  10                 11              12            12.20
Coil Halls                                  756                       .3034             1,240                -                 972              504                522              531             1,000             1.098              1.098              1.008           1,098           1,098
Coll1 come,                               2,505                       3,024             3,655             3,025             4,410             4,590             5.200             5,838             6,534            11,550            12,530              12.530          12,530          12,530
C.,1I Heifers-                                                     -                       -                -                 -                                   -                 -                 -               1,220             2.536               3.940           5,393           5,593
Malay 1-2 year                              S1ao                                                                               -----                                                                                                                                             
moles 2-3 years,                            640---                                                                                                                --------
Steer. 3-4 y-as                             420                          221               500               750            1,124             1.735             2,639             2,007             3,264             3.735              3.735              4.150           4.150           4,150
1Stan. ove  4 years                       1,306                       2.072             6,624             3,900             5,832             6,720            10,150            11.961            13.440            14,630            16,104              18.056          19,032          20,904
Feader Steers eZ                                                                       17.57S            18.330            19.787            20.539            21.244            21.620            219622.372                              ----  _                                          - =
TOTAL SALES                       6_297                         0.701            2965             2.05              3   2              4.0              39_1 277                             6 4              54653603397242.0                                                     -4-
Operating Costs
sclOrtt. & Wa...
lore,oaM                     ~             ~            ~~~~~- 1,200       1,200             1,200             1.200             1,200             1,200             1,200             1,200             1,200             1,200              1.200           1.200           1.200
1/                ~~~~~~2.190                  1,460             1,460             1.360             2.920             2,920             2,920             2,920             2,920             2,920             2,920              2,920           2,920           2,920
C ..o.aliLbor   2/                                                                     160               320               -                 ------                                                                                                        -- 
Sob-total                          2.190                        2.660             2.820             2.900            4.120             4,2               4.120             4.120             4,120l             4.120             4.120              4.120           4.120           4,2
5200k. eod fir.break.  3/                                            -                 200               200               280               200               200               200               280               290               280                 290             280             2800
Ooooot/0ae  4/                                                                         3  00             300               300               300               500               500               500               300               300                 500             300             300
F. oIog/Hodli.O  Yard  5/               --270                                                            500               508               300               100               500              -500               508               100                 500            500              500
Boildi.g.  I/                                                                          200               280               280               400               400               400               400               400               400                 400            400             -400
Sob-total                                                                        1 .130l            1.368            1.368             1.488             1M80              1.488             1.488             1.488              1.488              1.400           1.400           1,460
Pastor. moiotooao
Wo,ooin                                 -                                               530            1,650             2,750             2,750             2,750             2,750             2,750             2,750             2,750               2.750          2.750            2,750
T.p-Dr..si.g                                                    ~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~155    465     775               775               775.              775               775               775               775                 775            775             775
Sob total                                                                           705                                                2.1 ,553525       3.525             3.525             3.525             3.525              3.525              3.525           3.525           3.525
Oe-oartt 040 Sat, Rope.  V/                                           48                48                48                48               148                48                48                40                48                40                  40             48              48'
Roond T.~ l-                                                         100               100               100               100               100               100               100               100               100               100                 100            100             100
Spsympep  Q                             --                                              40O               40                 40               40                40                40                40                40                40                  40              40             40
Sob-total                                                         14                100               100               000              180                100             1US                 105               100               Ise                100             106             100
Aoarootd.s  II/                         --                                                               400               444               479               509               544               584               564               305                 594             600             600
Va.oinoe. DroSs  12/                    -                                                                408               444               479               309               544               584               564               500                 596            600              600
Mi o.r. 1    13/ -                                                   3 56              372               400               444               479               5009              544               584               564               585                 596             600             600
Sob-total                                                         356               572            1.224             1.332             1 437             1,52              1.632             1,5               1.692              1.755              1.788           1.000           1 8000
G....aI AdeInOstrt.tio
OfEito                                                                50                50               _50               _50               -50               250                50                50                50                50                  50              50              50
A-.toot  14/                                           -                      -        -                                                                        00               200               200               200                200                200             200             200
Load Renl  15/                          200                          500               300               500               300               300               500               300               300               300               300                 300             300             300
Moaegaseeet lrvLta Fee  16/             -                                                                                  -                 -               1.200             1.200             1.200             1.200             1,0                1.200           1.200           1.20o
Sob.t.t.1a                          200                           350               350               350               350              350            11.750             1.750             1.750             1.750              1.750              1.750           1.~750         _.730
TOTAL SPOSATINO C00TO  2.300               *j~3_1j                                _ 71.25       100023            11.100            12.598           _12.13             1282              12.763             12.826             12_859          12.871          12.871
~/ Daily  &aNe   2  . 363 days - 0 730/eoo/year.
2/-o eaintsenoa .or "tki yaaws 2 aod 3, latsr r-plaeod by pereenoaot staff; 0.08/son. day.
3/ 1 harroi.g/Vadisg/yaar, by oo.ttactor 0 0 20 par roootog ella.
i/ 321 of initial east following year of oo...trootio..
V    52 Of initial east following yea- of ooaetrotioo.
6/   42 of i.Oti.1 wast f.11ovia  year of oostnottoo..
7/   O..a a year  to  oOtr-1 boob orolth, ooriad 000 by oontraotor 0 1 bore lanoool00g.14 6.20/.err..
0/   50 lb sinRle a.orph-pbhpate/aor.eat 0 229/too; aprsadioa 0                           c-ar;ao~    oat   0ZIos
I/0M/yaar.
L0/ 1 evry year.
¶T/  01/bead/year, Orm Year 3; .oppli.d free-by -t-tar0n              servitee So Ysors 1,    2.
12:/ l 1/ead/year fro. Year 3,
13/ S 1/bead/yeat for 5 k,o minerals/head 0 0 0.20.
14/  Ta be oarried oot by Raooh Advise  donoR iorasNtet period.
15./  0 0.06/aarayaou- baf ar  8avalo0me.et:  ottla tae .o116.t.d Orm 652 of all -eol,l  -ovr 2 year. old.
O ive  sa free servtae by Aoimel Hosbaodry Dtisioa. dorlg first fiva yaars.



GNRA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMMT PROJECI
Ranching Subcomponenc Company Ranch (2,000 ba)
Profit and Loss Statemsent
1         2           3           4          5          6           7          8          9          10           11        12           13            14-20
Sales                                      8,701    29,605      26,805      32,125    34,088      39,755      42,757    46,314    54,615        36,003       39,782    42,403       44,355         44,355
;:Zaae in Herd Value 2/                  13,397      3,964       7,600     10,508    10,983        9,182      13,838    12,547    (1,599)       8,472         1,532     1,245          -              -
Cattle Purchases   3/                    (13,350)  (13,600)   (12,500)   (14,500)  (14,000)   (14,500)   (14,750)  (15,000)            -           _            _          _            _             _
Ranch Operating Costs   4/                (3,514)   (5,565)    (7,225)   (10,883)  (11,108)   (12,598)   (12,703)  (12,823)  (12,763)   (12,826)    (12,859)  (12,871)    (12,871)                (12,871)
Investment Written Off  3/                   -      (3,929)    (5,307)    (5,307)         ..                                -          -           -            -          -            -             -
Ranch Operating Profit                     5,234    11.575       9,373      11,943    19,963      21,839      29,142    31.038    40,253        31,649       28,455    30.777        31,484        31,484
Interest Paid
- Long Term Loan  6/                      1,628      3,887       4,836       5,343     5,532       5,532       5,532      4,984     4,369        3,681        2,912     2,049        1,083
- Medium Term Loan  7/                      854      2,152       2,106       2,128      2,288      2,272       2,336      2,376      1,440         -            -          -            -
- Overdraft 8/                                25        25         -            12         58         46         -          -          - _                       66         66          -
Sub-Total                           2,507      6.064       6,942       7.483     7.878       7.850       7,868      7.360     5,809        3,681        2,978     2,115        1.083            -
Profit Before Tax                         2,727      5,511       2,431       4,460    12,085      13,989      21,274    23,678    34,444        27,968       25,477    28,662        30,401        31,484
Income Tax   9/                           1,091      2.204         972       1,784     4,834       5,596       8,510      9,471    13,778       11,187       10,191    11.465        12,160        12,594
Profit After Tax                          1,636      3,307       1,459       2,676      7,251      8,393      12,764    14,207    20,666        16,781       15,286    17,197        18,241        18,890
Dividends   10/                                        -           -           -         -         3,100       3,100      6,200      6,200       6,200        6,200      6,200       9,300         18,890
Surplus                                    1,636     3,307       1,459       2,676      7,251       5,293      9,664      8,007    14,466       10,581        9,086    10,997         8,941
Cumulative Surplus                        1,636      4,943       6,402       9,078    16,329      21,622      31,286    39.293    53.759        64,340       73,426    84,423        93,364        93.364
11  From Table 7.
2/ Book value of herd equal to 757. of market value.
3   From Table 4.
4/ Prom Table 7.
2/ Investments written off are items incladed in the investment costs (Table 6) whose nature makes it appropriate to write them off iTmmediately rather than to carry them forward
in the balance sheet (Pirebreaks and Tracks, Pasture Development, Misc. Equipment).
6/ 12% interest on Ranch Development Loan, Table 6.
7/  12% interest on Feeder Steer Loan, Table 6.
/   127 interest on Cumulative l9egative Balance in Table 10, in first year of incremental deficit 6 months only, in year following the  last deficit year.
1  40% of profit before tax according to Ghana tax law.
10/  Covering minimum cash requirements of shareholders until year 7; to be doubled years 8-12, trebled year 13 and full surplus to be distributed from year 14.
January 13, 1976



AB!rEr 5
T.bl.l 9
00Mg
UPPER REiGION AGRICULTURiL    BRELOPMNT PROJECT
RanehinM Sub.opOaeent - CMo.eey R-nch (2,000 h.)
Sere bal-ase Sheet
(8)
opening
Dalance
sheet          1          2         3          4         5           6         7         8          9         10         11          12         13        14       15-20
ASSETS
Fixed Aeseto - At Coet                         -         27,139    38,773   40,489   38,332   33,145    33,145    33.145   33,145    33,145    33,145    33,145    33.145    33,145   33,145                     33,145
D prei.tloe                                    -         _ -         4.959    6.675    6.675        1.488      1.488      1.4d8    1.488       1,488      1.488       1.488      1,488      1,488     1.488       1,488
Not Fieed A-ee.t   1/                                    27.139    33,814   33.814   31.657   31,657    31,657    31.657   31.657             31,657    31,657      31,657      31.657    31,657   31,657        31,657
-eed  21                                     33,212      46,609    51,573   59,173   69,681   80,664    89,046   103,684  116,231   114,632   123,104   124,636   125,881   125,881  125,881   125,881
Cab   3/                                       -           -          3,776    1.343       -        -          2,451        534    1,052       4.653      2.058        -           812      5.803   16.522    16,956
Total A.s.L.                                   33.212       73,748    89.163   94,330  101.338  112,321   123.954   135.875  148.940   150,942   156.819   156,293   158.350   163.341  174.060   174.494
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity  4/                                   33,212      33,212    32.782   32.402   31.802   31,602    31,302    31,102   34.052    37.052    37.052    37,052                 37,052     37,052   37 052    37,052
Cash Withdr .al.  5/                           -         (3.100)   (3.100)  (3.100)  (3.100)  (3,100)   (3.100)            -         -          -           -          -          -           -
F.tre;    Contribution  6/                     -          2,670       2,720    2,500    2,900    2,800         2,900      2,950    3.000                                    -                                      -
Cuesleti-e Sueplue  _/                         -          1,636      4,943    6.402    9.078   16.329    21,622    31.286   39.293    53.759             64.340    73,426    R4.423    93,364   93,364          93.364
Total Equity                                   33.212      34.418    37.345   38.204   40.680   47.631    52.724    65.338   76.345    90.811   101.392   110.478   121,475   130.416  130,416   130.416
Lo..  T-rn Loan  8/                            -         27.139    37.643   42,95C    46,10C   46,100    46,100    41.531   36,414    30.682    24,262    17,072                 9,019       -          -          -
Medilo  Tern Loan  9/                          -         10.680      10,.80   10,000   11.6C0  11,200    11.600    11.800   12,000
Sub-Total                                 33,212      72.237    85,868   91.154   98.380  104.931   110.424   118.669  124,759   121.493   125.654   127.550   130.494   130.416  130.416   130C416
Current Liabilities
lIncoxe Taa   10/                              -            0,091     3,295    3,176    2,756    6,618    10,430    14,106   17,981           23,249    24,965    21,378    21,656    23,625   24,754            25,188
Overdraft   11/                                -             420       -         -          202       772       -          -         _          -          -          1,165                                        -
Dividoode Payable   12/                        -           -          -         -         -         -          3.100      3.100    6.200       6,200      6.200       6 200      6.200      9,300   18.890    18.890
Total Equity end Liabililti                    33,212      73,748    89,163   94,330  101,338  112,321   123.954   135,875  148.940   150.942   156.819   156.293   158.350   163.341  174.C60   174.494
Rnturn en Capitol E=ploYe.d %  1/ 3                           6          11         9        10        14         15         17        17         22          16         14         15          14        14         14
V   The fire  h-  been obtained as fll: -----------------  Y     -----------------
1          2         3        4          5
Fi-ed lovesene  (Tablo 6)                27,139    10,504        5,307    3,150
Rspla..enoe, Inve.m.nte-                     -        1,130      1,368    1.368    1,488
(Table 7)
L.es Inve1e_etet Written Off                 -        3,829      5,307    5,307       -
(Table 8)
1.eee Replaerment bre  hDteen                _        1.130      1.368    1.368    1.488
(Table 7)
Net                              27.139      6.675        -      (2.1571
Net Cunulative                   27,139    33.814    33.014   31.657   31.657
2/  Valued at 757. of ner-et va-1e in ooetent toe.e
3/ Frue Table 10.
4/  Book vel-e of herd brought into the rae-h, einus  -aeh eithdral  during PY 1-5, pln  f-arner', contribution to pur-hase of feeder etoe
5/  Eati.ted  oinon ocei   reqnlrO-nl nt. of  hbareholdere equal to 80% of the withdtayale, befere de'dIoopnnt.
6/  20% of feeder nt-er prhbasee.
7/  Fero  Table 8
2/  Toe,: 12%  tetore t, 6 years q   raro  for 13 years.
./  Toe, 12% Onteroal, requt red for;- 20-noeth fattening polied (8  ,onth  in Y-oar 1, 12 --oth. in Year 2).
10/  Finn Table 10.
12/  Fros Table 8.
13/  Proffit  before rharging intereer on lean rapital, but aftet tan aaaper-e.tagr of the son of equity and loan eapital.
Ja-nory 13, 1976



GMMAI
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranching Subcomponent - Company Ranch (2,000 ha)
Cash Flow
Before- ------                                                                       - -Year--------  -  -  -   --   -  -   --   -  -   -  --   -   -  --   -  -   -
Development        1        2         3        4         5        6       7         8         9         l0      11         12        13        14      15        16-20
INFLOW (Constant Terms)
Cattle Sales   1/                          6,297         8,701   29.605   26,805   32,125   34,088   39,755   42,757   46,314   54,615   36,003   39,782   42,403   44,355   44,355   44,355   44,355
Loan for Fixed Investments  2/                -         27,139   10,504    5,307    3,150        -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -
Loan for Cattle Purchase  3/                  -         10,680   10,880   10,000   11,600   11,200   11,600   11,800   12,000
Farmers Cash Contribution  3/                 -          2,670    2,720    2,500    2.900    2,800    2.900    2,950    3,000
Total Inflow                            6,297        49.190   53,709   44.612   49.775   48,088   54,255   57.507   61,314   54,615   36.003   39,782   42,403   44,355   44.355   44.355   44,355
OUTFLOW (Constant Terms)
Fixed Investments  2/                         -         27,139   10,504    5,307    3,150        -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -
Cattle Purchase  3/                           -         13,350   13,600   12,500   14,500   14,000   14,500   14,750   15,000                               -        -         -         -         -        -
Operating Costs  1/                         2.390        3.514    5.565    7.225   10.883   11.108   12.598   12,703   12,823   12,763   12,826   12,859   12,871   12,871   12.871   12,871   12,871
Sub-Total                              2,390        44,003   29,669   25,032   28,533   25,108   27,098   27,453   27,823   12,763   12.826   12,859   12,871   12.871   12.871   12,871   12.871
Interest
-  Long Term Loan  4/                           -           1,628    3,887    4,836    5,343    5,532    5,532    5,532    4,984    4,369    3,681    2,912    2,049    1,083              -         -         -
- Medium Term Loan  5/                          -            854    2,152    2,106    2,128    2,288    2,272    2,336    2,376    1,440            -         -        -         -
- Overdraft  6/                                 -              25       25      -           12       58        46      -        -         -         -           66        66     -
Principal Repayment
-  Long Term Loan  4/                           -            _        -         -         -        -         -       4,569    5,117    5,732    6,420    7,190    8,053    9,019
-  Medium Term loan  5/                         -            -      10,680   10,880   10,000   11,600   11,200   11,600   11,800   12,000           -         -         -        -
Income Tax   7/                                 -     -               -        1,091    2,204       972    1,784    4,834    5,596    8,510    9,471   13,778   11,187   10,191   11,465   12,160   12,594
Cash Withdrawals/Dividends  8/                3.907         3,100    3.100    3.100    3.100    3.100    3.1CO    3.100    3.100    6.200    6.200    6,200    6.200    6,200    9,300   18.890   18.890
Total Outflow                           6,297        49,610   49.513   47,045   51,320   48,658   51,032   59,424   60.796   51,014   38.598   43.005   40,426   39.364   33.636   43,921   44,355
Annual Balance (Constant Terms)                 -            (420)   4,196   (2,433)  (1,545)    (570)   3,223   (1,917)          518    3,601    2,595   (3,223)   1,977    4,991   10,719           434      -
Cumulative Balance (Constant Terms)             -            (420)   3,776    1,343       (202)    (772)   2,451        534    1,052    4,653    2,058   (1,165)         812    5,803   16,522   16,956   16,956
1/ From Table 7.
2/ From Table 6.
3/ From Table 6, 80% to be financed through medium-term loan, 20% to be financed through farmers contributions.
4/  12% interest, 6 years grace, for 12 years.
5/  12% interest, repayment after 20 months (8 months in Year 1 and 12 months in Year 2).                                                                                                                       2:
6/  12% on cumulative balance; 6% for first year of negative annual costs balance; 6% of last year following last negative annual costs balance.                                                              P9
7/  From Table 8, payment two years in arrears.
8/  Cash withdrawals up to Year 5, minimum divident Years 6-11 (80% of cash withdrawals before development), doubled in Years 12 and 13, all profits
after tax distributed to shareholders from Year 14.
January 13, 197 6






ANNEX 6
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Services
Contents                                                           Page No.
General                                                                1
Establishment and Organization                                         2
Staff Recruitment and Training                                         3
Financing                                                              3
Service Centers                                                        4
Input Marketing                                                        5
Pricing Policy and Operating Procedures                                6
General Agricultural credit                                            7
Recommended Farm Equipment                                             7
Oxen                                                                   7
Distribution                                                           8
Agricultural Services Division                                         8
Subsidies                                                              8
Accra Office                                                           8
Table 1        Service Center Construction Program
Table 2        Estimated Prices - Fertilizers
Table 3        Insecticide Price Calculation
Table 4        Farm Equipment and Miscellaneous Stores
Table 5        Farm Inputs
Table 6        Estimated Costs - Service Centers
Table 7        Produce Prices in Current Terms
Appendix 1     FSC - Draft Rules and Regulations
Appendix 2     FSC - Organization Chart
Appendix 3     Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
Table  1   Salaries and Allowances
Table  2  Motor Vehicles and Equipment
Table  3   Housing and Plant Operating Costs
Table  4   Vehicle and Plant Operating Costs
Table  5   General Administration Costs
Table  6   Calculations of Sundry Income and Bad Debts
Table  7   Profit and Loss Statement
Table  8   Statement of Allocation of Earnings
Table  9   Balance Sheet
Table 10   Sources and Uses of Funds, Cash Flow Statements
Table 11   Analysis of Financial Statements






ANNEX 6
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Services
General
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture is presently responsible for the supply
of farm inputs which until recently have been available in the Upper Region
on a scattered and sporadic basis. As a result of the Ghanaian/German Agri-
cultural Project, distribution has improved, but regional utilization is
still small (3,500 tons of fertilizer in 1974) and is consumed mainly by
larger farmers. Low consumption of inputs is at least as much due to non-
availability as to ignorance or antipathy on the part of farmers; the estab-
lishment, development and maintenance of a dynamic input supply organiza-
tion would therefore be critical to the success of the Project.
2.        Dynamism is essential if continued development is to be assured;
it can be achieved most effectively through a commercial company dedicated
solely to the provision of technical supplies and services necessary to
complement the extension effort. Expert and experienced direction and
management would be imperative from the outset, with some form of active
farmer participation also desirable in order to provide a constant spur
to management and clientele. Ideally, this should be attained through
both equity participation and Board representation.
3.        A suitable organization would therefore be set up under the
Project that would aim at providing physical inputs as well as commercial
atmosphere and opportunities, all of which are essential for the adoption
and maintenance of improved production practices. Specifically, the
company would:
-    establish contact with farmers at all levels through
a chain of retail outlets;
-    procure, distribute and sell recommended farm inputs;
-    provide agricultural services appropriate to the needs
of individual farming areas;
-    ensure farmers' adequate purchasing power by operating
a deferred payment (credit) scheme;
-    provide incentives for transportation and farmers
association development through a bulk discount system;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
provide facilities for produce marketing; and
operate agency services for statutory organizations
such as Cotton Development Board, Agricultural
Development Bank, and the Food Distribution Corpora-
tion.
4.        Establishment and Organization.  A company to be called the Farmers
Services Company (Upper Region) Ltd. (FSC) would be established in Bolgatanga
under the 1963 Companies Code Act, with an initial authorized capital of
W12.0 million; draft regulations and organization chart are at Appendix 1 and
2 of this annex. The initial shareholders would include Ministry of Finance
(representing Ghana Government), and Ghanaian banking institutions. The
latter would subscribe about t4.0 million. The final equity composition
and voting power would be established at the time of Company incorporation,
but in any event, Government would initially be the majority shareholder.
5.        Farmer equity would be developed through a mandatory 2-1/2% mark up
on the landed CIF store cost of farm inputs (base cost); these shares would
be held in trust for the farmers by the Bank of Ghana. Since all recipients
of inputs can be identified, eventually dividends could be made payable to
individuals or groups of farmers. In any event, voting rights of farmer
representatives on the FSC Board would increase annually as their equity
expanded. Eventually, farmers' equity could be held in blocks representing
district or even farmers associations. It is expected that by Year 5 farmers'
equity would have reached 12% of issued capital. It is intended that control
of the Company would one day fall into the hands of the farmers. Mechanisms
would be worked out so that shareholdings from outside the Upper Region would
eventually be replaced by farmers' capital.
6.        The Board of Directors would comprise:
-    Project Manager of URPMU (Chairman);
-    One representative each from:
Bank of Ghana,
National Investment Bank,
Commercial banks (three);
-    Two representatives from the Ministry of Finance;



ANNEX 6
Page 3
-    three farmers, appointed initially by the Project Manager
but eventually to be elected by shareholding farmers
association members;
-    Managing Director (FSC);
-    Chief Accountant (FSC) (Secretary).
7.        Company organization is shown at Appendix 2.  Prime activity would
be generated by Commercial Services and Agricultural Services, the former
handling all procurement, distribution and sales activities, and the latter
all agro-contracting operations. These would be supported by Administration
and Finance, there being a separate Internal Audit section reporting directly
to the Board.
8.        Staff Recruitment and Training.  The exacting task of quickly
establishing a sound company capable of profitably anticipating and meeting
the needs of the agricultural community requires overall management expertise
together with operational and financial discipline of a very high order.
Two key executives, the Managing Director and the Chief Accountant, would be
recruited internationally. Projected activity build-up rate is high, which
should facilitate the training and selection of a Ghanaian successor to
the Managing Director by the end of Year 4. Initially the Managing Director
would also carry out the duties of Commercial Manager, with the intention
of filling this position (probably from one of the four 1/ key section
managers in the Division) by the end of Year 2. The person so selected
could be suitable for subsequent promotion to Managing Director.
9.        Continued Company success depends on the availability of well
trained and oriented staff; a properly designed training program would
therefore be implemented from the outset, probably in cooperation with
the commercial banks. Experience has shown that training and internal
auditing are naturally complementary, particularly as good audit work is
concerned more with preventing mistakes or defalcations before they occur
rather than in detecting them subsequently. Consequently, these two
functions would be combined under the Auditor. Basic staff training
would be run on a sandwich basis, formal classroom work being carried out
in the slacker season, field training being continued through mobile
audit teams.
10.       Financing. The Company would receive commitments from Ministry of
Finance and the local banking institutions for equity valued at 05.1 million.
This equity in cash or kind would be paid in over the first five-year period.
Ministry of Finance equity would cover the cost of vehicles and equipment;
1/   Field Operations, Procurement, Transport and Accounts.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
banks, Bank of Ghana, and the National Investment Bank would provide equity
for working capit;il and for the construction of buildings. Government,
through the Ministry of Finance, would take up additional equity in exchange
for land, buildings and machinery taken over by FSC.
11.       Funds to cover the incremental foreign exchange cost of farm in-
puts would be provided in the form of a long term Government loan, 06.2 mil-
lion at 8.85% for 25 years, with seven years grace for principal repay-
ment. 1/ The incremental local costs of inputs, estimated at 03.5 million
including contingencies, would be financed through short term overdraft
facilities from commercial banks at 8-1/2% per annum, repayable within 12
months. As the long term loan is repaid the commercial banks would increase
their short term lending. Initially the commercial banks would lend about
t0.5 million; by Year 8 the amount would have risen to 05.8 million.
12.       Service Centers.  Farmer contact and market penetration would be
achieved through a series of retail ventures operated at strategically sited
service centers, from which extension staff would also operate. Ninety
centers would be built during the first three years of the Project, each
designed to meet and service the agricultural input needs of some 1,300 farm
families (Tables 1 and 2). Construction would, where possible, be undertaken
by local contractors. If insufficient contractors are available then the
Ministry of Social Welfare and Community Development could be contracted
to provide building services. It is expected that service centers would
become focal points of agricultural and farmers association activity; site
selection and demarcation would be made on this premise. The basic center
would consist of a secure store (in an easily replicable modular design)
equipped with cash register or similar accounting machine, and a platform
scale. Essentially, this basic structure would be a sales point for inputs.
Although planned extensions include the addition of covered and open storage
for produce and special marketing facilities for crops such as cotton and
paddy rice, as well as work areas for local artisans, the prime orientation
would remain that of consolidating a steadily increasing sales turnover.
13.       It is envisaged that of the 90 service centers, about ten would
be situated in areas where intensive mechanized farming is, or could be,
profitably carried on. In addition to suitable storage facilities (500-ton
covered, 500-ton open plinth), the centers (SCI) would include a machinery
servicing area with basic facilities, such as inspection pits or ramps
and a chain hoist, where farm equipment could be serviced by farmers or
approved mechanics; tools would not be provided. Arrangements would
also be made with the oil companies for the supply and installation of
underground fuel tanks. Two smaller sized centers (SC2 and SC3) having
150- and 75-ton covered stores would also be constructed.
1/   06.2 million is an estimate in 1975 constant terms; unallocated funds
are available to increase the loan to cover inflationary trends.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
14.       Specific requirements would vary between areas.  In order to ensure
the availability of appropriate and economic physical facilities, establish-
ment and development would occur and be administered on a district basis.
Such a scheme would also allow a well-balanced staff structure from the
outset, with consequent career attractions and enhanced opportuniies for
effective inservice training. District managers would operate from offices
(with integral 500-ton stores) sited at respective headquarter towns, and
would have overall responsibility for service centers in their districts. For
budgeting purposes the construction program has been phased as follows:
Type of Unit          Year 1        Year 2       Year 3
DHQ                   7             -            -
SC1                   3             3            4
SC2                  20            20           13
SC3                   -             7           13
Additional storage capacity required to accommodate preseason stock buildup
would be met from that already constructed by GGADP 1/.
15.       Input Marketing.  Recommended farm inputs would be purchased for
subsequent distribution and sale. The General Manager would have overall
responsibility for procurement in accordance with Board policy, with ICB
procedures to be followed for contracts exceeding US$100,000. Board approval
would be required for individual nonbudgeted items exceeding US$50,000, or
10% of budget contingencies, whichever is less. Sales would be made for
cash or deferred payment. Medium term or extended credit would not be
granted, although the Company would act as agent for ADB in the provision
of credit for oxen and selected farm equipment (see paras 16-18). Arrange-
ments would also be made with ADB, NIB and the commercial banks to supply
inputs to farmers who had received 'in kind' loans for this purpose; for
ease of accounting, such supplies would be released only after receipt of
payment from the credit source. The Company would not involve itself
in credit recovery activity except in cases where it had acted directly
as lending agent for ADB. Estimated sales for the first five years are
as follows:
1/   Totals 9,225 tons, of which 6,000 is situated at Bolgatanga and 1,175
at Wa.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
-------------'-----  OOO    - ---    _________
Fertilizer                1,528      2,460    3,731      5,195     7,239
Seeds                       214        503      597        822       879
Insecticides                397        716    1,178      1,669     1,874
Other chemicals              21         48       89        160       235
Other seasonal inputs       126        284      344        457       541
Radio receivers              -         294      294        147        74
Oxen                         36         58       72         90       108
Total                2,322     4,363    6,305      8,540    10,950
16.       Pricing Policy and Operating Procedures.  Inputs would be sold only
to registered Upper Region farmers.  All seasonal inputs would have a basic
unit price to cover cost overhead and profit, with discounts and premiums
related to particular types of sale. Premiums would apply to deferred
payment sales and discounts to quantity orders. An indicative pricing
structure, based on forecast prices, is given in Tables 5-7. Within each
calendar year deferred payment terms would be available to both groups
and individuals, but the latter would have to belong to a group or asso-
ciation registered with the Company. Individual applications would be
endorsed by the group, thus affording increased security through collective
resposibility; group applications would require approval by village head.
Additional endorsement as to size and make up of the desired package would
be required from relevant URPMU staff. Service Center Technical Officers
would approve loans to individual farmers, but, initially, group loans
would require endorsement by the District Development Officer. The com-
pleted application would be exchanged for goods at the appropriate service
center, payment of the posted price being due by December 31. Purchasers
could extend the deadline to January 31 at a basic cost of 01.00 per
850.00 of goods, or to February 28 at a cost of 03.00 per 050.00 of goods.
Payments outstanding on March 1 would be subject to legal recovery action.
Defaults, both individual and collective, would result in removal of deferred
payment privileges from all concerned. Posted prices for deferred sales
would be, roundly, 12% above cash prices and would take account of the cost
of money, bad debts and additional administration costs. Each purchaser and
authorized group representative would have a laminated identity card or
similar device containing his photograph, serial number (identifying village,
section or group, and service center) and signature or mark. The possibility
of using the identity card as an accounting document would be investigated.
Because of the outstanding debt situation of some cooperatves, cooperative
members, societies or unions who wished to buy on deferred terms would have
to furnish a freedom-from-debt certificate from the cooperative or appropriate
Government department.
17.       Available information in regard to the range of farm sizes makes
it impossible to gauge the likely extent of first-time individual deferred
payment requirements; however, the scheme is primarily aimed at increasing



ANNEX 6
Page 7
input availability and sales to the mass of small farmers. Consequently,
initial limits would probably be equivalent to the value of a truck load
of approved inputs (approximately 01,750 to 02,500 at unsubsidized
prices), which would allow the discount benefits of quantity orders and not
make an undue proportion of Company risk depend on the knowledge of a perhaps
inexperienced extension worker. In addition, ADB and commercial bank
facilities would continue to be available for higher value purchases under
arrangements similar to those described in paras 16-18. The deferred payment
scheme would be reviewed regularly by the Board and amended with experience.
18.       General agricultural credit is presently operated by ADB, as the com-
mercial banks do not meet the needs of the majority of farmers, due primarily
to operational considerations. For farm equipment, oxen, radios, and other
capital items, the Project would seek to remedy the situation through FSC.
The Company would provide the means of making and maintaining the necessary
contacts and overcoming the long delays between application and approval which
bedevil the present lending procedures.
19.       All recommended farm equipment, including radios, would be available
for cash sale from selected service centers. Where necessary, financing
arrangements would be made with ADB for approved borrowers. For this purpose,
FSC would act as agent for ADB and prepare and process relevant credit applica-
tions; the ultimate lending decision and risk responsibility, however, would
remain with ADB. All loans would have a five-year duration, bear 12% annual
interest and depend on a 20% down payment by the borrower. Application forms
would be prepared at service centers after evidence of deposit had been pro-
duced, countersigned by subsection or village head and field assistant, and
passed to FSC district office for scrutiny and endorsement before transmission
to head office and ADB. Applications resulting in a total credit commitment
exceeding ¢1,500 would have to be approved by a Credit Advisory Committee,
established at district level. The articles would be released to the buyer
after the receipt of funds from ADB and on payment of the deposit. Repayments
would be made at the appropriate service center, the clerk being responsible
for reasonable monitoring of the debt. FSC commission would be 1-1/2% of
the gross amount of the loan and interest, and would automatically be deducted
by FSC as repayments are made.
20.       Oxen would also be sold by FSC on behalf of the Project.  Due to
the expected limited supply, requirements of credit buyers would be met only
after supplying the cash market. All potential purchasers would have to own
one ox, together with suitable yoke set, chain, etc., before being eligible
to buy from FSC; a plow/ridger would also be mandatory but could be made
available to approved applicants on credit terms. Oxen credit procedures
would be the same as for farm equipment, except that no cash deposit would
be required for the purchased ox. Successful applicants would also have
to take their oxen through the Project ox-training course; the oxen would
not be released until satisfactorily trained.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
21.       Distribution.  As much use as possible would be made of private
and State transport services, particularly those available from URDC. These
capabilities are now rather stretched; in order to reduce the chance of
delays FSC would initially own and operate ten seven-ton trucks. These
vehicles are intended as relatively short term gap-bridgers, with the
objective of progressively reducing direct FSC participation in transport
rather than maintaining a steady or increasing share of tonnage handled. A
further ten trucks would be purchased and leased by FSC to URDC to facilitate
transport of Project supplies to the Upper Region.
22.       The Agricultural Services Division would be established to provide
mechanized services to farmers; the manager would report directly to the
Managing Director. FSC would take over suitable machinery and equipment from
MA and URDC at agreed value, together with competent personnel now engaged
in similar operations. The Division would be costed on a profit-making
cash basis which requires a far greater machine utilization than is now
being obtained. This wo-uld be achieved by concentrating service acreages
and improving machine maint2nance. Particular attention would be given to
the possibility of cooperating with banks engaged in financing medium and
large scale farming projects. Td ensure desirable and logical development
of mechanized agriculture and reduce the possibility of an uncoordinated
proliferation of activity, the Division would cooperate closely with URPMU's
Technical and Land Development Services.
23.       The Section would take over the operations of the Ministry of
Agriculture's farm mechanization workshops at Zwarungu for all heavy main-
tenance and repair work, but would have two two-man teams to carry out emer-
gency repairs in the field and to provide an inspection and advisory service
for private driver mechanics. Each team would have a properly equipped
four-wheel drive vehicle, fitted with radio linked to the Project network.
24.       Subsidies.  All FSC operations have been costed on the basis of
farmers paying the full price for inputs, with a percentage mark-up applied to
secure the necessary returns. This percentage would be totally inadequate if
used on subsidized prices; indeed, a margin of 100% would be required on some
of today's prices to cover costs. In the event of a subsidized input and
uniform pricing policy being maintained, Government would reimburse FSC for
the consequent loss in earnings. Payment, based on the sales budget, would be
made preseason (before the end of January each year). At the same time final
adjustment would be made for the previous season. Government payments would
reflect a previously agreed percentage figure related to the true (unsubsi-
dized) cost of inputs; they would not cover expenses or losses occurring
through, for example, FSC failure to meet sales targets, unless these were
directly attributable to Government policies.
25.       Accra Office.  FSC would operate an Accra office which would ser-
vice its own requirements as well as those of URPMU. The office, which



ANNEX 6
Page 9
would be rented, would be managed by an executive officer, and assisted
by an accounts clerk and messenger. It would have radio communication
linkage with Bolgatanga. URPMU would share the costs equally with FSC.
April 7, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Service Center Construction Program
Year One       Year Two       Year Three
District headquarters                   7              -               -
(500 ton store)
SCi      (500 ton store)               3              3                4
SC2      (150 ton store)              20             20               13
SC3      (75 ton store)                -             10               13
December 5, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED PRICES - FERTILIZERS
FINANCIAL (US$ - e 1.154)                                                                    ECONOMIC (USS    e 1.50)
YEAR OF USE                           1975        1976       1977       1978        1979       1980        1981       1985       1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980       1981        1985
TYPE
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate
CIF Tema US$                                   215         190        180        167         155        150         152        162
= t                                          248        219         208        193         179        173        175         187        323        285         270        251         233         225        228         243
Landing Charges                                  10         10         10          10         10         10          10         10          10         10         10          10         10          10         10          10
Transport                                       44          44         44         44          44         44          44         44         44          44         44          44         44          44         44          44
302        273        262         247        233        227         229        241        377         339        329         305         287        279         282        297
Regional Distribution and Finance 3/             19         18         17          16         16         15          15         16          23         21         20          19          18         18          18         19
Base Cost                                      321         291        779         263        249        242         244        257        400         360        349         324         305        297         300        316
Overhead and Margin 5/                          72          65         63          59         56         54          55         58          20         20          18         16          16         14          14         16
Base Selling Price                             393         356        342         322        305        296         ?99        315        420         380        367         340         321        311         314        332
Single Superphosphate
CIF Tema us$                                    200        150        139         131        124        120          120       120
- t                                          231        173         160        151         143        138          138       138       .300         225        209         197        186         180        180         180
Landing Charges                                  10         10         10          10         10          10          10        10          10         10          10         10          10         10          10         10
Transport                                       44          44         44          44         44         44           44        44          44         44         44          44                     44                44
285        227        214         205        197        192          192       192         354        279         263        251         240        234         234        234
Regional Distribution and Finance 3/             18         15         15          14         14          14          14        14          22         18          17         17          16          16         16          16
Base Cost                                      303         242        229         219        211        206          206       206         376        297        280         268         256        250         250        250
Overhead and Margin 5/                           68         54         52          49         47         46           46        46          20         18          74          14         14          12         12          12
Base Selling Price                             371         296        281         268        258        252          252       252         396        315         294        282         270         262        262        262
Muriate of Potash
CIF Tma US$ 1/                                  180        180        182         182        173        165          163       153
- t                                          208        208         210        210         200        190          188       177        270         270        273         273         260        948         245        230
Landing Charges                                  10         10         10          10         10          10          10        10          10         10          10         10          10          10         10          10
Transport 2/                                     44         44         44          44         44          44          44        44          44         44          44         44          44          44         44          44
262        262        264         264        254         244         242       231         324        324         327        327         314         302        299         284
Distribution, Finance 3/                         17         17         17          17         17          16          16        16          20         20          20         20          20          19         19          18
Base Cost to Company                            279        279        281         281        271         260         258       247         344        344         347        347         334         321        318         302
Rebagging Costs 4/                               20         20         20          20         20          20          20        20          20         20          20         20          20          20         20          20
299        299        301         301        291        280          278       267         364        364         367        367         354         341        338        322          0
Overhead, Margin 5/                              67         67         68          68         65          63          63         60         18          18         18         18          18          16         16          16
Base Selling Price                             366         366        369         369        356        343          341       327         382        382         385        385         372         357        354         338
1/  Shipped in 50 kg bags and basis 1974/75 actual prices, adjusted in accordance with IBRD forecasts.
2/  Basis 800 km at e 0.055 per ton/kn.
3/  5% of value + e 4.00 local transport and handling.
4/ Into 25 kg bags.
5/  20% markup to cover overhead and margin, plus 2-1/270 markup for farmer equity  ontribution.
Decedber 5, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Insecticide Price Calculation
0 per 1,000 kg
GARDONA 3%           DIElDRE              ALDRIN 2.5%-          ENDOStJtPAN
Financial Ecdnomic   Financial Economic   Financial Economic   Financial Economic
CIF Tema $                 2,750                 3,120                  1,250                3,250
= g                      3,175       4.,760    3,600      5,400       1,445     2,160     3,750        4,875
Landing                        10         10        10          10         10        10         10          10
3,185      4,770     3,610       5.,410     1,455     2,170      3,760       4,885
Extra Packing                -           -       1 ,000       750         -         -          -
4,610      6,160
Transport                     50          50        60         60          50        50         50          50
3,235      4,820     4,670       6,220      1,505     2,220      3,810       4,935
Finance etc.                 165         150       230        210          75        70        190         175
CIF Store                  3.400       4,970     4.900       6o430      1,580     2,290     4,000        50110
FSC Markupl/                 765         150     1,102        200         355        60       900          190
Sale price                 4,165       5,120     6,000      6,630       1,935     2,350     4,900        5,300
1/ At 22%.
December 5, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 4
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Equipment and Miscellaneous Stores
- Costs -
Article                             Buy 1/                   Sell 2/
Sprayers                            27.00                   33.00
Battery sets - sprayers              2.20                     2.70
Battery sets - radios                1.10                     1.35
Plows                              100.00                  122.00
Carts                              225.00                  277.00
Oxen 3/                            350.00                  385.00
Transistor radios - FM              30.00                    36.80
1/ Estimated cost landed, point of sale.
2/ FSC mark up 22-1/2%.
3/ FSC mark up 10%.
December 5, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 5
GHANAL
UPPER R8CION4 AGRICOLTORA2. DEVEOPFHENT PROJ8CT
Fre. Inputs
-----------------------Farm  Input Resuire ent--------------------------
...........~~~~...... .       ..............     ....................... os
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3           Year 4            Year 5
Fertili-er
Calcium a-oiom nitrate                                    2,240            3,640             5,700            8,140            10,870
Single super phosphate                                    2,690            4,730             7,570           10,820            15,540
Murite of potash                                             20                S0              100               150              200
Chemicals
Seed dreesing                                                 1.5               3.9              6.0              10.5             15.0
Yam eel dreseing    .                                         6.3              12.5             25.0              50.0             75.0
Storage tosecticids (a) 1/                                    0.5               1.5              3.0               5.0              8.0
Storage loeettcide (b) 2/                                     0.5               2.7              6.2             10.5              15.5
Crcp prsteotios insecticides ('000 liters)                   72.5            142.5             232.5             327.5            362.5
............................... t,.    ..............................N..ber..
Other Seasesal Inspts
Sprayers ULV                                              1,820            3,780             5,360            7,920             9,900
Battery  eats (eproyrer)                                  1,820            5,600             7 320            9,500            12,460
Battery sets (radios)                                        --           16,000            64,000           00,000            88,000
Other Equipont
Os carte                                                    650            1,250             1,350            1,450             1,550
Os plows sod cidg-rs                                      1.800            2,350             2,400            2,450             2,500
Radio reeivers (FM)                                          --            8,000             8,000            4,000             2,000
Ours                                                        100              150               200              250               300
---------------a-----       rtieS Utit Prices--------                     -
Year  1          Your 2            Year 3           Yetr 4            Yeer 5
Blse Cost        Base Cost         Beer Cost        Base Cost         Base Coat
Fortilirer
Calcium  omni     it-miratr  ('000 kg)                      279              263               249               242              244
Si.gle soper phosphate ('000 kg)                            229              219               211               206              206
turirte of potash ('000 kg)                                 301               301              291               280              270
Che.icals
Seed dre.aihg ('000 kg)                                   4,900            4,900             4,900            4,900             4,900
Yam sot dressi. g ('000 kg)                               1,580            1,580             1,580             1,580            1,580
Issectiides (storage) ('000 gk)                           3 400            3,400             3,400            3,400             3,400
Crop prorectios irsecticides ('000 liters)                4,000            4,000             4,000            4,000             4,000
Other Se-oe.. I ..ots
Sprayero fLV (each)                                          27               27                27                27               27
Battery Sets fur sprayers (each)                              2.2               2.2              2.2               2.2               2.2
Battery sets for radios (o-uh)                                1.1               1.1              1.1               1.1              1.1
Other Eslipmeot
Os carts (each)                                             225              225               225               225              225
Os plow  sad ridgors (such)                                 100               100              100               100              100
Radio receivers (FM) (each)                                  30                30               30                30               30
0Oes (.crh)                                                 350               350              350               350              350
----------------Fiooscil Valoe of Pe-  .pt---------------------
............................... ($ '000) .
Fertili-ec
Calcium amonlu sitrate                                      625.0            957.3           1,419.3          1,969.9           2,652.3
Sisglesopsr phcsphate                                       616.0          1,035.9           1,597.3          2,228.9           3,201.2
Muriate of potash                                             6.0             15.1              29.1              42.0             55.6
Seeds 3/                                                      174.5            410.9             487.7             671.2            717.8
Chemicals
Seed dreesi.g                                                 7.4             19.1              33.3             31.5              73.5
Y   set dre.sieg                                             10.0             19.8              39.5              79.0            110.5
Storage issecticides                                          3.4             14.3              31.3             52.7              79.9
Crop protectior  i.seeticides                               290.0            570.0             030.0          1,310.0           1,450.0
Other Seasosal Input-
Spraysrs ULV                                                 49.1            102.1             144.7            213.8             267.3
Rattery sets for epr-y-e                                      4.0             12.3              16.1             20.9              27.4
Battery sets for radios                                      --               17.6              70.0             88.0              96.8
Spore p-rta 4/                                               50.0            100.0              50.0             50.0              50.0
Other Esuipeet
Os carte                                                    145.3            281.3             303.8            326.3             348.8
Os plows and ridgers                                        180.0            235.0             240.0            245.0             250.0
Radio receivers (FM)                                         --              240.0             240.0            120.0              60.0
Os..                                                         35.0             52.5              70.0             07.5             105.0
1/  Improved males 0 rmrs.
2/ Improved storage Protect red composy stores,
3/  See An.e, 7, Table 3.
4/ For private tr-etors.
Deee. br 5, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 6
GHhMl
UPPER REGION AGRICUILTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs - Service Centers
Type           Elements                   Cost    Cost                 Labor Content
X~~~~~~ V ~alu
D.H.Q          Store                 (250 m2)    17,500                35      6,125
Offices (lean to)    ( 40 m2)      3,500                35      1,225
Plinth               (300 m2)      1,500                60        900
Fencing               (c400i)     3,600                35      1,260
Equipment                          2,50o                 -          -
28,600                     % 9,510
SCi            Store                 (250 m2)    17,500                35      6,125
M(0            Offices (lean to)    ( 30 mi2)     2,100                35         735
Plinth                (300 m2)     1,500                60        900
Servicing Area       (500 m2)        500               60         300
Fuel tanks              (3)        5,400                10        540
Fencing               (c600 m)     5,400                35      1,890
Equipment                          2,500                 _
34,900                     4121490
SC2            Store                   7 75 m )   5,250                35      1,837
737)           Office (lean to)      ( 20 m2)      1,400               35         490
Plinth               (300 m2)      1,500                60        900
Fenching             (c250 m)      2,250                35        788
Equipment                          2,400                 -          -
12,800                     4 4,015
SC3            Store                 ( 50 m2)     3,500                35      1,225
(20)           Equipment                          1,750                 -          _
5,250                        1.225



GHANA
UPPER RBGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Produce Prices - Current 0
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Millet              220      204     216     228     241      25?     269
Sorghum             210     200      213     224     235      247     264
Paddy Rice          178     170      163     153     162      167     179
Groundnuts          390      484     470     440     435      426     490
Cowpeas             248      220     233     245     261      276     304
Maize               140      122     129     138     144      150     160
Yam                 134     133      139     144     150     154      165
Seed Cotton         772     579      615     650     707     767      828
Cotton Seed         144     154      152     147     150     154      181
From   Annex 1            constant prices converted in accordance with IBRD
d   oI
Index of International Inflation



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page I
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Regulations of the Farmers Services Company (Upper Region) Ltd.
1.        The FSC would be organized under the Companies Code, 1963, and its
regulations would specifically include the following causes in addition to
or by amendment to standard clauses:
(a) Name and Location: The name of the company would be
Farmers Services Company (Upper Region) Ltd., and its
principal office would be located at Bolgatanga.
(b) Objectives: The Company would:
-    set up service centers strategically sited in the
Upper Region as a chain of retail outlets;
-    procure, distribute and sell fertilizers and other
recommended farm inputs in the Upper Region;
-    provide agricultural services in the Upper Region
appropriate to the needs of individual farming
areas, including agricultural machinery hire
services;
-    ensure farmers' adequate purchasing power by
operating deferred payment schemes for those
items required on a seasonal basis;
-    provide incentives for transportation and farmers
association development through a bulk discount
system;
-    provide facilities for produce storage and marketing;
and
-    operate agency services for statutory organization.
(c) Board of Directors:
(i) Membership
-    Project Manager of Upper Region Agricultural
Development Project (Chairman):



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
one representative from each of the participating
banks;
one representative from the Bank of Ghana;
one representative from the National Investment Bank;
two representatives from the Ministry of Finance;
three farmers from the Region appointed by the Project
Manager until such time as farmers' equity demands farmers'
elected representatives;
-    Managing Director (FSC);
-    Chief Accountant (FSC) (Secretary).
(ii) Rotation: The members of the Board other than the Project
Manager, Managing Director, and Chief Accountant would be
appointed for two years, three to retire each year and be
eligible for reappointment. There would be no retirement
during the first year. Thereafter three would be retired
every year.
(iii) Fees: To be limited to a reasonable per diem for each day
of attendance at Board meetings plus reasonable out of
pocket traveling expenses. Reasonable directors' fees
may be fixed only after the surplus account is equivalent
to at least 25% of paid-in capital.
(iv) Powers: The Board as the policy making body of the Company
would:
-    approve the annual budget of the Company;
-    draw up procurement, distribution and sales policies;
-    appoint and fix the salaries and terms and conditions
of employment of all senior staff;
-    determine the amount of dividends and transfers to
surplus in accordance with regulations (see para g (i)
and (iii));
-    appoint the auditor.
(v) Meetings: The Board shall meet at least once a month and
at such times as the Chairman may direct.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 3
(vi) Quorum: Five directors would form a quorum, one of whom
shall act as chairman in the absence of t*h Chairm.-
(d) Capital and Subscribers:
-    The authorized capital of FSC would be 012.0 million.
-    The initial shareholders would include the Ministry of
Finance and Ghanaian banking institutions.
(e)  Shares:  All shares would have equal status and would be tra-..,-
ferable only by consent of the Board. Voting rights would be
proportional to equity held or represented. Farmers' equity
would be created through a mandatory mark up on the landed
store cost or base cost of 2-1/2% on all items sold by the
Company. Farmer's equity would therefore grow with sales.
The Bank of Ghana would hold in trust farmers' equity rights
until such time as properly elected farmer directors are
appointed to the Board.
(f) Special Powers and Privileges:
(i) The FSC would act as agent for the Agricultural Development
Bank in the provision of credit for oxen and recommended
farm equipment; for this service FSC shall be paid a com-
mission of 1-1/2% based on the gross amount of the loan
and interest.
(ii)  If subsidies for farm inputs are not entirely removed or are
reimposed during the life of the Project, FSC would receive a
subvention from Government on an annual basis, payable as and
when required for the cost of selling at subsidized rates.
(See Annexure 1 for subvention formula.)
(iii)   During the first five years, FSC would be exempt from
import duties and taxes, and during the same period also
be exempt from import licencing.
(g) Dividends, Surplus and Reserves:
(i) Whenever a positive balance in the undistributed profit
account becomes available (i.e., after the accumulated
loss from the first few years of operations has been
eliminated), it will be allocated to a capital reserve
account until the balance of such reserve equals 100%
of paid-in capital.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 4
(ii)  No dividend shall be declared until the balance in the
capital reserve account is equal to 100% of paid-in
capital.
(iii)  Dividends may be paid only from unappropriated surplus
after conditions in (i) and (ii) above have been met.
(h) Annual General Meeting:
-    to approve accounts and direcor's report;
-    to confirm dividend payments;
-    to appoint auditors (directors to fix their remuneration).
April 14, 1976



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Annexure 1
FSC Fertilizer Store Cost and Government Subvention
1.        FSC Store Landed Cost for Fertilizers (see Annexure 2).  The FSC
store landed cost shall be computed by adding the following charges to CIF
Tema:
(a) landing charges computed on a per ton basis;
(b) transport cost from Tema to Bolgatanga on a per ton
per km basis;
(c) finance charge - 5% of CIF Tema, landing and transport
charges; and
(d) local (Upper Region) transport and handling costs,
estimated to be 04/ton.
2.        Mark-up (Farmers' Equity and Margin).  Selling price of fertilizers
would be the FSC store landed cost plus a 22-1/2% mark-up (this mark-up
applies to all farm inputs except oxen); 2-1/2% of which would cover the
farmers' equity in FSC. The 20% would substantially cover operating costs of
FSC. This margin appears reasonable since operating costs from Years 1 to 5
average about 20% of farm input costs over the same period. It must be
noted that the 20% mark-up is an arbitrary figure, based on current costs
and estimated turnover. The percentage mark up is subject to modification,
and would normally be established at a level that would enable reasonable
returns on sales investment.
3.        Government Subvention.  If fertilizers are sold at subsidized
prices Government shall pay FSC annually a subvention equal to the difference
between the selling price (para 2) and the subsidized selling price. For ease
of accounting, fertilizer sales would be recorded at the subsidized price.
At regular intervals FSC would prepare statements for each kind of fertilizer
showing the FSC store landed cost per ton, selling price, subsidized selling
price and Government subvention. This should preferably be done when finan-
cial statements (monthly or quarterly) are to be prepared. To facilitate
determination of the Government subvention at any given time a factor should
be obtained by dividing the Government subvention by the subsidized selling
price as shown in the statement mentioned above. This factor should be
multiplied by the sale figures for fertilizer as shown in the book of
accounts (see Annexure 2).



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Annexure 2
ILLUSTRATION OF STEP-BY-STEP APPROACH TO CALCULATE GOVERNMENT SUBVENTION
1.   Calculate unit store cost of fertilizer.
Example:    CIF Tema (¢ per ton)                      208
Add:  handling charges 1/ 2/              10
transport cost 1/ 3/               44
Subtotal                              262
Add:  distribution & finance cost 4/   17
Unit store cost (¢ per ton)              279
2.   Determine total basic selling price(TBSP) of fertilizer and total
requirement in tons.
Example:     (in ¢)
Total Store  2-1/2%       20%     Basic Selling
Fertilizer   Requirement   Unit Price        Costs      Equity   Markup         Price
(tons)     (per ton)
Nitrate          2,240         279 5/       624,960    15,624   124,992        765,576
Phosphate        2,690         229          616,010    15,400   123,202        754,762
Potash              20         301            6,020        150      1,204        7,374
Total tons    4,950                        Total basic selling price:   1,527,712
3.   Obtain subsidized unit selling price (see Annex 11, Table 7, Footnote 2).
Example:    Year 1      ¢100 per ton
Year 2      0140 per ton
Year 3      0180 per ton
Year 4      0200 per ton
Year 5      0220 per ton
1/ As estimated in report; subject to variations which could affect calculations.
2/  Cost per ton for landing  charges.
3/  Tema to Bolgatanga:  800 km, at ¢0.055 per ton/km.
4/ 5% plus 04.00 local transport and handling.
5/ See step 1 above.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Annexure 2
Page 2
4. Calculate Government subvention.
Total subsidized selling price = Total requirements x Subsidized unit
in units           selling price
Government subvention = Total basic _ Total subsidized
selling price    selling price
Example:     TSSP = 4,950 x 140 = 693,000
GS = 1,527,712 - 693,000 = 834,712
Short Formula to Determine Government Subventions
Total basic selling = Total store cost (TSC) + 2-1/2% TSC + 20% TSC
price (TBSP)
Total subsidized selling = Total requirements   Subsidized selling
price (TSSP)                in units            price per unit
Government subvention = TBSP - TSSP






GHANA
UPPER REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS SERVICES COMPANY (UPPER REGION) LTD
ORGANOG RAM
I             ~~~~BOARD OF      
|             ~~~~DIRECTORSl
FINANCE AND                                            COMMERCIAL                                            AGRICULTURAL                                             INTTNAL
ADMINISTRATION                                          SERV ICES                                            SERVICES                                                 AUDIT
C14IEF ACCOUNTANT                                         MANAGER                                                MANAGER            .AUDITOR
PROCUREMENT~~~                                  OPERAERVICES
PERSONNE                                                PROCUREMENT                DITRC         C     ENTERS #TA 
BOLGATANGA           SERVICE   A
REGISTRY   l  I  TRANSPORT    AND  |DISTRICT  CENTERS
REGISTRY ~ ~  ~    ~    ~                  ISRIUTO
_  COST   |  2    NAVRONGO  _    SERVICE   R
IaSECURITY   }  | _ _ Inr  COMMERCIAL  l  7    DISTRICT    CENTERS
_    PAYROLL  |   SANDEMA    , SERVICE
.  __   7  DISTRUCT   ] CENTERS  M
SERVICE   E
CENTERS
_   PAYMENT    l      WA          |       SERVICE
CENTERS                                                                                  D
_ AGENCY              LAWASERVICE
-   |-WCENTERS  Sk                                                         R






FARM 3§11MVCKSO3A Ct£t R) LTD.-
SALABIE  AMI 9JLVN            (O Ib   600oo)
W7I'f COST       NO.       TM  I         YR 2         TMS    3     IUEI 4      lSIR S        TOTgAL                              - 0 LOCAL CDST
551FF
General llanager                                  55.0/13.0    5        tl)  55.0    (1)  55.0   (1)  55.0  (1)  55.11   (l)  13.0            233.0        S4220.0                 13.0
COMIMCM SKKVICSS
11iigsr                                            8.5S        5        (1)   s.s    0i)   8.9   (1)   8-9  (1)   B-9   (1)   8.9            4>4 5          _                       4.5
O,oerations Officer                                7.9          5      (1)   7-9    (11   7.9   (1)   7.9  (1)   7.9   (1)   7.9              39 5          -                      39 5
Procurement Officer                                7.9         5       (1)   7.9    (1)   7.9   (1)   7-9  (1)   7-9   (1)   7.9              39-5          --                     39'.5
Ttrasport Cfficer                                  7.9          5       (1)   7.9    (1)   7.9   (1)   7.9  (1)   7-9   (1)   7.9             39.5          --                     39.5
A.:oataut                                         7'9          5       (1 )   7.9    0 )  7.9  (11)   7.9  tl )   7.9   (1 )   7-9            39.5                                39.5
Bookkeepers                                       4-3         12       (1)   4.3    (2)  8.6   (3) 12-S- (3)  12-9   (3)  12.9                51.6          --                     51.6
Account Clerks                                    3.1         28       (2)   6.2    (5) 15.5   (7)  21-7  (7)  21.7   (7)  21.7              86.8           --                     a6.8
Clerks                                            1.2         15       (3)   3.6    (3) -3.6   (3)   3.6  (3)   3.6   (3)   3.6               18.0          __                     18.0
Dr-ivers                                          0 9         20             JAL _.6         .11)3.6  _WX    3.6  filL;L _34A LU   .6       _13.            -                      18.0
Sutb 'total                                                              58.2          7-1          8.          82.3         82.3        376-9                                3 - 9
IGRUCULTUilbL SERVICES
Hbager                                           8.9            5       O1)   8.9    (1)  8.9   (t)   8-9  (1)   8.9   (1)   8.9              44.5          _-                     44.5
Clarks                                           1.2            5       (I)   1.2    (1)   1.2   (1)   1-2  (1)   1.2   (1)   1.2              6.0                                  6.o
Dri-er/m..hani..                                 0.9           15     l       27      () 2-7 (3    2-7  t)           2.    (3     27          13$                        -         15
Shb Total       '                                                                 DI6_         D    M            T.     _jo1
VINANCE &k ADIIDSTRATIoll
ah-ief Acc-utent (T-A)                     5o.o/8.9            5       (1) 50-0    (1) 50.0   (1) 50-°  (1) 50.0   (1)   8.9                208.9          96         2t0D          8.9
Cost Accozataut                                  8.9           5       (1)   8.9    (1 ) 8.9   (1)   8.9  (1)   8.9   (1)   8.9              44.5           _            -         d 4.5
'xcuet'vo Offioer - iLccra                      G.g          11        h)   6.9    (l)   6.9   tl)   6.9  (1)   6,9   (1)   6.9              34.5          ._                     34,5
Assistarit Aec.untant - budget                   6.9           5       (I    6.9    (10    6-9   (I )   6-9  (l )   6-9   (1 )  6.9           34.5                       -          4-
B.okkepe-ar                                      4-3           8       (1)4.3    01)4.3   (2)    .   (2)   S.6   (2)   6.6                    34.4          -            _         34,4
Account Clerks                      ~~3,1         12       (2)   6.2    (2)  6.2   (2)   02(3)   9:3   (3))  9.3                 37.2           -_                    3.
Accunt lelfi  str                                                                                    ) 91 2                                                                        37 22  .  3  .            .  3 483'  
:1'erssnel4 Maae                                    8.         10       (g1)  64      (313 6.9   (@13 69  (I2        1 6 9 (31  6 9           34 5                                 34165
R.gatry   ar                                      1.2          10       (2 ) 1.2    (2)   1.2   (1)   1.2  (2)   1.2   (2 ) 1.2                6.o           _                      80
Sqcubt TOtfewhl                                                      (3) 42.7    (I)   4.3   (I3)        3  (3)   4.3   (1)    :3           213.5          _-                    l
Truntng Of riser                    1~~~~~~~~~34°43  13   f2i  46:    gX    4.6   X3  14.6  (3    0   1                0) 4.6        2 4.6  6So_2
TSt e Ygrdph0                                     1.2          1          220.0           34. 6          48.       275.8       242.       1,5. 201 42.    1,031.
uniaerctal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 3Servtces8                                                                                                                    6 
essengf ears  ter s1    :
Distrttae                                        12           105     (1)22 (1) 2          5 2 6 2 17 326 21)35 1 6          23   01 6        2 80                                  8  1260
Subhme Toa0.0                                                35      (7)  9.8    (2)   1.6   (2)  140  (2)  14.6   (2)  14-6                  8.           _                     2.5
1l-    z  ee,es1.2                                           7 (.93  32-2 7              74.           k.2          1.    (a3) 162 7          35.                                2.
Sotlb Toal                                                                                       _j           (i                                                                  1.
11414    5.5                124.4 647.9   5s.       5l    28684- .79           lS-         420.o   2,448.?
INTIMALAU16,197



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
Motor Vehicles and Equipment
(e '000)
Unit                                                                                                                    Foreign ExchanRe          Local
Unit     Cost      No.         Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5          Total      Z            Cost         Cost
Saloon cars                          No.       7.3       8     (4)    29.2                -                -         (4)    29.2                -           58.4      95           55.5           2.9
Four wheel drive vehicles            No.       8.0      10     (5)    40.0                -                -         (5)    40.0                -           80.0      95           76.0           4.0
Pick up trucks                       No.       5.5      30    (10)    55.0       (3)    16.5       (4)    22.0      (10)    55.0       (3)    16.5         165.0      95          156.8           8.2
Motor cycles                         No.       0.9      64    (27)    24.3       (3)      2.7      (4)     3.6      (27)    24.3       (3)      2,7         57.6      95           54.7           2.9
Trucks - 7 tons 1/                   No.      11.5      20    (20)   230.0                -                 -                 -                 -          230.0      95          218.5          11.5
Office furniture and equipment                                         57.0              13.0             10.5                2.0               -           82.5      50           41.2          41.3
Radio telephones 2/                  No.       4.1       5      (5)    20.5               -                 -                 -                 -           20.5      75            15.4          5.1
Spare parts and equipment 3/                                           50.0              20.0             20.0                -                 -           90.0      95           85.5           4.5
Total                                                      506.0              52.2             56.1              150.5              19.2        784.0      90          703.6          80.4
1/ Ten trucks to be hired to URDC.
2/ Two fixed at Bolgatanga and Accra, three mobile.
3/ For Agricultural Services workshop at Zwarungu.
December 17, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
Housing and Building Costs
(e ooo)
Unit                                                                                                                        Foreign LxchanTe         Local
Unit     Cost       No.            Year 1            Year 2             Year 3             Year 4            Year 5       Total       %            Cost         Cost
Senior staff houses                    No.      50.0        4        (4)   200.0                 -                  -                 -                 -        200.0      40            80.0       120.0
Intermediate staff houses 1/           No.      20.0        7        (7)   140.0                 -                 -                  -                 -        140.0      40            56.0        84.0
Headquarters office 2/                 No.    170.0         1        (1)   170.0                 -                  -                  -                 -        170.0      40           68.0        102.0
Service center stores:
Type SC1                           No.      34.9       10        (3)   104.7        (3)   104.7        (4)   139.6                -                 -        349.0      30           104.7       244.3
Type SC2                           No.      12.8       53       (20)   256.0       (20)   256.0       (13)   166.4                -                 -        678.4       30          203.5       474.9
Type SC3                           No.       5.3        -       (10)    53.0       (10)    53.0                -                  -                 -        106.0       30           31.8        74.2
Type District HQ                   No.      28.6        7        (7)   200.2                 -                 -                  -                 -        200.2       30           60.0       140.2
Office space at District HQ            No.       9.5        7        (7)    66.5                 -                  -                  -                 -         66.5      30           20.0         46.5
Office space Service Centers                                                188.0               88.9              84.5                 -                -         361.4      30          108.4        253.0
Total                                                          1,378.4              502.6              390.5                -                 -      2,271.5      32          732.4    1,539.1
1/ For District Manager.
2/ At Bolgatanga.
December 18, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REG ION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Services Comvany (UR) Ltd.
Vehicle and Plant Operating Costs
(  '000)
Unit                                                                                                                   Foreign Exchange            Local
Unit       Cost    No.          Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5         Total       %             Cost          Cost
Saloon cars                   vehicle years   2.8    20         (4)    11.2       (4)    11.2      (4)    11.2       (4)      11.2      (4)    11.2         56.0       60          33.6            22.4
Four wheel drive vehicles   vehicle years   3.8    25           (5)    19.0       (5)    19.0      (5)    19.0       (5)      19.0      (5)    19.0         95.0       60          57.0            38.0
Pick up trucks                vehicle years   3.1    74    (10)    31.0    (13)    40.3    (17)    52.7    (17)              52.7    (17)    52.7         229.4        60         137.6            91.8
Motor cycles                  vehicle years   0.4   159    (27)    10.8    (30)    12.0    (34)    13.6    (34)               13.6    (34)    13.6          63.6       60          38.2            25.4
1/
Total-                                                       72.0             82.5              96.5               96.5             96.5        444.0       60         266.4           177.6
Incremental Cost                                                       72.0              10.5              14.0                -                -          96.5        60          57.9            38.6
1/ Cost of operating trucks not included as cost is included in farm input cost.
December 17, 1975
11



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
General Aduinistration Coats
(~'000)
Foreign Exehanwe           Ltal
Year I        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5           Total            %           Cost            Cost
Audit costs                                       5.0           5.0             5.0           5.0            5.0             25.0           -             -              25.0
Stationery, etc.                                  5.0          10.0           15.0           15.0           15.0             60.0          50            30.0            30.0
Telephones and cables                             2.0            3.0           4.0            4.0            4.0              17.0         50              8.5            8.5
Insurance                                         8.0           9.0           10.0           10.0           10.0             47.0           -                           47.0
Civil works and taintenance                       -             27.6          37.6           45.4           45.4            156.0          50            78.0            78.0
Miscellaneous                                     2.0            3.0           4.0            4.0            4.0              17.0         50              8.5            S.5
Rentsls                                         30.0            10.0          10.0           10.0           10.0             70.0            -             -             70.0
Total                                 52.0           67.6           85.6           93.4           93,4            392.0          32           125.0          267.0
Increental                            52.0           15.6           22.0            7.8            -               97.4          32            31.2           66.2
Decedber 18, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Services Company (U.R.) Ltd.
Calculations of Sundry Income and Bad Debts
eo000
Year 1     Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5         Year 6        Year 7        Year 8        Year 9       Year 10        Year 11
Deferred payments  -                         1,187.5    2,434.4       3,876.8      5,821.1    7,882.3       11,047.4       13,155.2      15,430.2      17,530.6      19,256.0       21,153.5
To account receivable  2/                       118.8      243.4        387.7        582.1       788.2        1,104.7       1,315.5       1,543.0       1,753.1       1,925.6        2,115.4
Interest on Account receivable  -                -          21.7         37.9         58.2        85.8          113.6         145.2         171.5         197.8         220.7          242.5
To bad debts                                     -          59.4         121.7        193.9      291.1          394.1         552.4         657.8         771.5         876.6          962.8
ADB Commission  6/                          1.1         4.0          7.3         10.4        13.5           15.5          16.0          16.2          16.7          17.5           18.4
Truck rental    -                 7        35.0        35.0         35.0         35.0        35.0          35.0          35.0           35.0          35.0          35.0           35.0
Interest on account receivable  -            -         21.7         37.9         58.2        85.8         113.6         145.2          171.5         197.8         220.7          242.5
5.1        60.7          80.2        103.6       134.3         164.1         196.2         222.7         249.5          273.2         295.9
1/  75% of seasonal farm inputs see footnote 1,Annex 6, Appendix 3, Table 7.
2/  10% of deferred payments
3/ 12% of accounts receivable
4/  50. of previous fiscal year's accounts receivable.
5/  1-1/2% of collected principal and interest for sales made on behalf of ADB.
6/  Hereof trucks at 035,000 per annum to HRDC.  03,500 per truck rental based on depreciation of truck over 5 yearsplus 10% of capital cost of truck to cover finance charps.
7/ See footnote 3.
April 13, 1976



AMiU 6
ApsmdLx 3
Table 7
GEMU
llM  m1  AGxRICMI1L D0 LUAT  PRxCT
Frpmers Srvtces Com_an  (OR) Ltd.
Profit nd Lonse Statemnt
Year I     Yer 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      lear 6      lear 7     Year 8      year 9      Year 10
Revenue
Cash sales 1/                           789.0    1.704.7    2,185.7      2,668.9    3,260.5    4,248.2    4,923.6        5,651.1    6,329.1    6,898.7
Deferred payment satee 2f             1.187.5    2,434.4    3.876.8    5.821.1    7.882.3   11.047,4   13,155.2   15,430.2   17,530.6   19,256.0
Total sales                      1,976.5    4,139.1    6.062.5    8,490.0   11,142.8   15,295.6   18.078.8   21,081.3   23,859.7   26,154.2
Less: Formers' equity 3J                 5".9       102.1       142.9      188.9       238.9       288.4       340.7       397.0      449.1       492.2
Net sales                        1,921.6    4,037.0    5,919.6    8,301.1   10,903.9   15,007.2   17,738.1   20,684.3   23,410.6   25.662.0
Coverneent subsidy 4/                   834.7    1,112.9    1,324.7       1,373.0    1,384.5         -           -           -           -           -
Sundry revenue 5/                        36.1        60.7       80.2       103.6       134.3       164.1       196.2       222.7       249.5      273.2
Total revenue                    2,792.4    5.210,6    7,324.5    9,777.7   12,422.7   15.171.3   17,934.3   20,907.0   23,660.1   25,935.2
Cost of Sales
Purchasse  6/                         2,416.3    4,271.6      5,864.3    8,882.5     9,753.8   11,736.3   13,835.4   16.104.8   18,173.4   19,860.4
Add: 8eginning I-ventorl                  -         219.7       408.3      570.2       755.7       955.4    1,153.8    1,362.7       1,588.0    1,796.5
2,416.3    4,491.3     6,272.6    8,312.3   10,509.5   12.691.7   14,989.2   17,467.5   19,761.4   21,656.9
Less: Ending inventory                  219.7       408.3       570.2      755.7       955.4    1,153.8    1,362.7       1,588.0    1,796.5    1,968.8
Coat of sales                    2,196.6    4,083.0      5,702.4    7,556.6    9,554.1   11,537.9   13,626.5   15,879.5    17,964.9   19,688.1
Gross profit                       595.8    1.127.6    1.622.1    2.221.1    2.868.6    3.633.4    4.307.8          5.027.5    5,695.2    6,247.1
On  gtinf Expenses
Staff costs lt                          395.5       495.4       597.9      605.0       571.9       600.5       630.5       662.0       695.1       729.9
Vehicle operating costs 8/               72.0        82.5        95.5       96.5        96.5        96.5        96.5        96.5        96.5        96.5
General adenistratin  9t                 52.0        67.6        85.6        93.4       98.1       103.0       108.2       113.6       119.3       125.3
Bad debts 10!                             -          59.4       121.7       193.9      291.1       394.1       552.4       657.8       771.5       876.6
lotal operating .epenses           519.5       704.9       900.7       988.8    1,057,6    1,194.1      1.387.6     1,529.9    1,682.4      1,828.3
Operating profit                         76.3       422.7       721.4     1,232.3    1,811.0     2,439.3     2,920.2     3,497.6    4,012.8      4,418.8
Interest on 1onn ters debt 1I/           91.2       262.1      432.7       636.5       869.9       990.5       990.5       963.0       908.2      853.3
Depreciation  12/                       273.2       332.9       391.1      339.9       279.0       331.5       319.5       291.3       242.9      232.4
Profit (loss) before texas             (290.9)     (172.3)     (102.4)     255.9       662.1    1,117.3    1,610.2    2,243.3    2,861.7         3,333.1
Inco.e taxes 13/                          _           -           -           .                    446.9       644.1       897.3    1,144.7    1,333.2
Net profit (loss)                 (240.93     (172.31    (102.4        255.9      662.1       670.4       966.1    1.346.0      1.717.0     1,999.9
1/ 257 of all seasonal inputs including fertilizers (at subsidized prices), seeds, chemicals. ULV spr,yers., battery sets and spare ports:
1002 of fer equipment, msee  ed tranaistor redio sete.  Sales estimated to i-crease at 57. per annum after Year 5.
2/ 752 of all seasonal inputs (see footote 1/).
./ Coepulsory 2-1/27 retention for faromrs' equity based on full value of inputs delivered at FSC store, but before 20% mark-up for FSC overh1ds.
4/ Governmnt subsidy-for details *se Annex 11, Teble 5; projections assume that s-bsidis for fertill,er ar- phased out by end of Year 5.
5/ See Annex 6, Appendix 3, table 6.
6/ See Ann  6. Toble 5 - valmud at CIF PSC store.
7/ See AnDe  6 Appendix 3, Table 1.
8/ See Annex 6, Appendix 3, Table 4.
9/ See Annex 6, Appendix 3, Table 5.
TO/ See Annex 6, Appendix 3. Table 6- equivalent to 5n of deferred pepeent sales.
11/ At 8.85  on ontstanding belasce - I     11 OK and Gbansia   oaks loamns.
12/ 302 on vebicles, n  on building.
13/ 402 of net i_coms after T_r S.
NIy 18. 1976



UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL D1VhIOPlW1fN PROJECT
Farmers Services Comvany (U.R.) Ltd.
Statemnt of Allocation of EarninLs
Z'o000
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4       Year 5      Year 6       Year 7      Year 8       Year 9       Year 10
Net Profit (Loss)  1/                           (290.9)     (172.3)      (102.4)    255.9        662.1         446.0       644.1         897.3    1,144.7       1,333.2
Add: undistributed profit;
beginning balance           -        (290.9)     (463.2)   (565.6)      (309.7)          -                        -            -            -
Total Balance                     (290.9)     (463.2)      (565.6)   (309.7)       352.4        446.9        644.1        897.3    1,144.7        1,333.2
Leos:  allocation to cepital reserve  2/            _            _          _                    352.4         446.9       644.1         897.3    1,144.7       1,333.2
Less:  allocation to dividenas    /                 _            _          _
Undistributed profit:  ending balance           (290.9)      (463.2)    (565.6)    (309.7)        -
ga ital Raerve Account
Capital reserve: beginning balance              _            _          _           _           -          352.4     1,022.8      1,988.9      3,334.9     5,051.9
Add:  annual allocation                                      _          _           _        352.4         446.9       644 1        897.3      11447       1 333
Capital reserve:  ending balance                _            _          _           _        352.4         799.3     1,666.9      2,886.2      4,479.1     6,385.1
/ See Profit and Loss Statenat, Annex 6, Appendix 3, Table 7.                                                                                                                                     co
/ Positive balance of Undistributed Profit acount transferred to Capital Reserve until reserve equals paid-in capital.
See Annex 6, Appendix 1, Para. (g).
May 18, 1976



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
Balance Sheet
e '000
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7        Year 8       Year 9       Year 10
Assets
Current Assets
Cash + short term investments           2,297.7      4,200.5      6,535.4      9,440.1    12,999.0    13,518.8    14,576.9         15,519.2    16,864.0    18,475.2
Accounts receivable 1/                    118.8        243.4         387.7        642.6        788.2      1,104.7      1,315.5      1,543.0      1,753.1       1,925.6
Inventory                                 219.7        408.3        570.2        755.7         955.4      1,153.8      1,362.7      1.588.0      1,796.5       1 968.8
Total current assets               2,636.2      4,852.2      7,493.3    10,838.4       14,742.6   15,777.3    17,255.1        18,650.2    20,413.6    22,369.6
Fixed Assets
Plant, vehicles & equipment               616.2        688.6        772.5      1,013.0      1,062.9       1,318.5      1,467.0      1,486.2       1,511.8      1,660.3
Buildings                               1,765.7      2,525.6      3.185.7      3,185.7      3,185.7       3,185.7      3,185.7      3,185.7       3,185.7      3,185.7
2,381.9     3,214.2       3,958.2      4,198.7      4,248.6      4,504.2      4,652.7      4,671.9       4,697.5      4,846.0
Less:  depreciation                        273.2        606.1         997.2     1,337.1       1,616.1      1,947.6      2,267.1      2,558.4       2,801.3      3,033.7
Net fixed assets                   2,108.7      2,608.1      2,961.0      2,861.6      2,632.5      2,556.6      2,385.6       2,113.5      1,896.2       1,812.3
Total Assets                       4.744,9      7.460.3    10,454.3    13,700.0    17,375.1    18,333.9    19,640.7    20,763.7    22,309.8    24,181.9
Liabilities
Long term debt                            2,061.8      3,861.3       5,917.2      8,467.5    11,191.7    11,191.7    11,191.7    11,191.7    10,571.7            9,951.7
Less:  repayments 2/                           -            -            -            -            -            -             -          620.0        620.0        620.0
Total long term debt               2,061.8      3,861.3      5,917.2      8,467.5    11,191.7       11,191.7    11,191.7    10,571.7        9,951.7       9,331.7
Equity (Capital)
URDC 3/                                      616.2        688.6        772.5      1,013.0      1,062.9      1,062.9      1,062.9       1,062.9      1,062.9      1,062.9
Ghanaian banks 4/                          2,302.9      3,216.6      4,030.3      4,040.4      4,040.4      4,040.4      4,040.4       4,040.4      4,040.4      4,040.4
Farmers' equity                               54.9        157.0        299.9        488.8        727.7      1,016.1       1,356.8      1,753.8      2,202.9      2,695.1
Total                              2,974.0      4,062.2      5,102.7      5,542.2      5,831.0      6,119.4       6,460.1      6,857.1      7,306.2       7,798.4
Capital reserve (target: 1.5 million)          -            -            -            -          352.4      1,022,8      1,988.9       3,334.9      5,051.9      7,051.8
Undistributed profit                        (290.9)      (463.2)      (565.6)      (309.7)         -             -            -            -            -             -
Total equity                       2,683.1      3,599.0      4,537.1      5,232.5      6,183.4      7,142,2       8,449.0    10,192.0    12,358.1    14,850.2
Total Liabilities & Capital    _.744,9          7.460,3    10.454,3    13.700.0    17.375.1    18.333,9    19.640.7    20,763.7    22,309.8    24.181.9
1/  107. of deferred payment sales.
2   25 year loan at 8.85 interest with 7 years grace.
3/  IBRD, UK and Government funds converted into URDC equity for vehicles, plant and equipment (contingencies included).
4/  Ghanaian banking institutions' working capital and buildings including contingencies.
May 18, 1976



GHANA
UPPER REG01N AGRICULTURAL DEVEIU)ET PRDJECT
Farmers Services Company (U.R.) Ltd.
Sources and Uses of Funds. Cash Flow Statements
t'000
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9      Year 10
Sources
Net profit                             -           -            -         255.9       662.1        670.4        966.1      1,346.0      1,717.0      1,999.9
Depreciation                         273.2       332.9        391.1       339.9       279.0        331.5        319.5        291.3        242.9         232.4
Log-term borrowings               2,061.8    1,799.5        2,055.9    2,550.3    2,724.2                   -            -            -                   -
Capital                           2,974.0    1.088.2       1.040.5        439.5       288.8        288.4        340.7        397.0        449.1        492.i
Total sources          5.309.0    3-220.6       3.487.5    3.383.6    3,954.1        1,290.3      1,626.3      2,033.5      2,409.0       2,724,7
Uses
Net loss                             290..9      172.3        M0.4A                                  -            -            -            -             -
Long-term debt repayment                           -            -           -           -          620.0        620.0        620.0        620.0         620.0
Purchase of fixed assets          2,381.9        832.3        744.0       240.5        49.9        2556         148.5         19.2         2556         148.5
2,672.8    1,004.6         864         240.5      -49.9         875.6        768.5        639.2        645.6         768.5
Net change in working capital   2.636.2    2.216.0          2.641.1    2.881.6    2.931.5          414.7        857.8      1,394.3      1,763.4       2,104.7
Total uses              L,309.0    3.220.6       3.487.5    3.585.6    3.954.1        1.290.3      1.626.3      2,033.5      2,409.0       2,724.7
Cash Flow
Depreciation                         273.2       332.9        391.1       339.9       279.0        331.5        319.5        291.3         242.9        232.4
Net profit (lose)                    290.9)   ( 172.3)   (  102.4)        255.9       662.1        670.4        966.1      1,346.0      1,717.0       1,999.9
Total                  (   17.7)   C 160.6)          288.7     595.8       941.1      1,001.9      1,285.6      1,637.3       1,959.9      2,232.3
160.62       2 18,91976
May 18, 1976



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers Servires Company (UR) Ltd.
Analysis of Financial Statements
Unit       Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        Year 6        Year 7        Year 8        Year 9        Year 10
Financial Structure & Coverage
(at end of fiscal year)
Debt   Total Capital                         %           43.5          51.8          56.6          61.8         64.4          61.0          57.0          50.9          44.6           38.6
Debt   Equity                                 :1            .77         1.07          1.30          1.60          1.81         1.57          1.32          1.04          0.80           0.62
Liquid assets for each 0 debt                 0           1.28          1.26          1.27          1.28          1.32         1.41          1.54          1.76          2.05            2.40
Interest Coverage
Before depreciation cost                      x             .84         1.61          1.67          1.94          2.08          2.46          2.95          3.63         4_41            5.18
After depreciation coat                      x              -            .34           .76          1.40          1.76         2.13           2.63         3.33          4.15            4.91
Profitability
Gross profit margin                           %          21.3          21.6          22.1          28.5          23.1          23.9          24.0          24.0          24.1          24.1
Operating margin                             %            2.7           8.1           9.8          19.1          14.3          16.1          16.3          16.7          17.0          17.0
Pre-tax margin                               %            -             -             -             2.6           5.3          7.4            9.0         10.7          12.1          12.9
Net profit margin                            %            -             -             -             2.6           5.3           2.9           3.6          4.3           4.8            5.1
May 18, 1976
rI3
oi I w
W






ANNEX 7
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Multiplication and Research
Page No.
A.   Seed Multiplication       .......................   I
B.   Research ...........*.*.. ......                         3
Table 1   Improved Seed Requirement
Table 2   Improved Seed Production Projection
Table 3   Seed Multiplication Unit Trading Balance






ANNEX 7
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Multiplication and Research
A. Seed Multiplication
Background
1.        There is no commercial seed industry in Ghana; seed multiplication
is undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture. In the Northern and Upper
Regions the responsibility rests principally with the Ghanaian-German Agri-
cultural Development Project (GGADP) and the Cotton Development Board (CDB),
though the Grains and Legumes Development Board also proposes its own founda-
tion seed farms within the 1975/80 five-year development plan. Acquisition
and provision of breeder seed is the responsibility of the Crops Research
Institution of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) 1/.
2.        Cotton seed multiplication at all stages is handled by CDB and
passes through four bulking stages. Breeder seed of IRCT origin is either
imported or collected by balanced mass selection within the CDB foundation
seed farms. Foundation seed of Allen 333 is bulked on a CDB farm at Damongo
from which progeny is distributed to growers in Bolgatanga for bulking to
certified seed. For variety BJA 592, breeder and foundation seed is planted
at Nyankpala Research Station from which it passes through an additional
bulking stage involving registered growers in the Wa district. Subsequent
bulking for certified seed is also undertaken at Wa.
3.        Prior to 1975, all commercial inputs 2/ were provided free to cot-
ton growers.  For the 1975 season a flat cess of 0150/ha (¢60/acre) was
introduced, to be deducted from market proceeds. All cotton seed is
dressed (with Dieldrex A) but is not fully delinted.
4.        CDB staff involved in the seed multiplication program report
three main areas of concern:
1/   CSIR falls within the Ministry of Economic Planning.
2/   Includes seeds, fertilizers, insecticides and sprayers on loan to be
returned at the end of the growing season.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(a) sprayers used during base multiplication are un-
satisfactory and have resulted in low yields
(around 825 kg/ha);
(b) varietal impurity has resulted from careless
handless and mixing of varieties during warehouse
storage; and
(c) the problems of (b) above have been compounded by
the lack of any financial incentives to registered
growers to rogue.
5.        These problems are recognized by CDB and an expansion and improve-
ment of its seed multiplication capability is already planned; this
would be sufficient to service Project requirements with supporting super-
vision of registered and certified growers by Project field staff.
6.        Seed multiplication for crops other than cotton is presently under-
taken by a Seed Multiplication Unit (SMU) established within the Ministry of
Agriculture by the GGADP. Standards and regulations, and their enforcement,
are the responsibility of a National Seeds Committee for which SMU is the
certifying authority. Bulking of foundation seed is undertaken by contract
outgrowers whose crops are subject to field and store inspection prior to
purchase. Attention has hitherto been directed almost entirely towards paddy
seed production for which SMU has a large cleaning, dressing unit at Tamale
with storage capacity for about 60,000 bags (5,000 tons), which expects
to distribute around 50,000 bags for the current season; a similar unit
with 40,000-bag storage capacity is under construction at Bolgatanga. Seed
multiplication is highly subsidized since paddy is purchased for 015.00 per
bag from contract growers (a margin of 00.50 per bag over the guaranteed
price) and registered/certified seed is sold for 017.65 per bag; a break-even
sale price is estimated to be around 030.00 per bag.
Seed Requirements
7.        The crop production proposals of Annex 2 assume that varying
proportions of farmers' seed requirements would be met by replanting home-
grown seed; provision of simple seed dressing equipment backed by neces-
sary instruction from extension staff would be included under the Project.
Assumed seed replacement rates and estimated annual requirements of new
seed are given in Table 1; this requirement would be derived through
the stages from breeder to certified seed given in Table 2.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Organization
8.        The existing GGADP (MA) Seed Multiplication Unit at Bolgatanga, which
would automatically become responsible to the Project Manager, would be well
suited to handle Project seed requirements though some additional machinery
would be required to cater for a wider range of crops than are presentedly
handled. Contract growers who are deemed to comply with the standards and
regulations laid down by the National Seeds Committee would be located by
Project extension staff and subject to regular field inspection by SMU staff
prior to crop purchase (GGADP would be able to initiate registered seed pro-
duction sufficient for Year I Project requirements prior to Project implementa-
tion). For ease of supervision, contract seed production would center, where
possible, on large farm units and smallholders involved in the Vea Irrigation
Scheme; foundation seed production would be undertaken at District Agricultural
Stations.
9.        The substantial seed requirement of the Project, particularly
when viewed in the context of national improved seed requirements, requires
fundamental reappraisal of Government's somewhat ad hoc policy on seed sub-
sidies, and it is quite appropriate that the cost be borne, at least in part,
by the farming community itself. Furthermore, the present high subsidies
will undoubtedly encourage wasteful use of seed 1/ and limit the overall
coverage and distribution that would be possible. Under the Project, there-
fore, the seed costs included provide a reasonable price incentive to contract
growers to adequately maintain and rogue their crops and also a commercial
sale price which would cover variable operating costs (casual labor and
transport) of SMU. These cost assumptions have been used in Table 3 to cal-
culate a trading balance for SMU. Certified seed would be purchased directly
from SMU by the Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd. and distributed to farmers
with a minimum mark-up of 22-1/2%
B. Research
Background
10.       With the exception of cocoa, all research in Ghana is the responsibi-
lity of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) within the
1/   For example, a grower of new improved seed with access to seasonal
credit facilities, would have little incentive to replant homegrown
seed, for he could sell his seed requirement for cash to the SMU, have
it collected, cleaned, graded and dressed, and subsequently repurchased
on credit. This would encourage annual seed replacement which when
expressed on a large scale would involve heavy and unnecessary Govern-
ment capital and recurrent expenditure while contributing little to
overall improvement.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Ministry of Economic Planning; the agricultural programs of CSIR are under-
taken by the Soils Research Institute (SRI) and the Crop Research Institute
(CRI) both with headquarters at Kwadaso, near Kumasi.
11.       Research within the Northern and Upper Regions is centered at
Ngankpala Research Station, which is situated 19 km west of Tamale at
9  25'N, 00  58'W.  The Station was established under the Ministry of Agri-
culture in 1947 1/ and operates within 1,000 hectares, of which the annual
research area amounts to about 50 hectares. Trials in the Upper Region
are mainly located at Manga substation, with occasional district trials
sited at District Agricultural Stations. Manga substation is situated 5 km
southwest of Bawku at 11 001'N, 0 016'W and has about 90 hectares of land.
12.       Research in relation to smallholder agriculture was largely cur-
tailed in 1963-66 when attention was directed to large scale mechanized farm-
ing operations. Although interesting and relevant work has been undertaken
subsequently, effective operation has been prevented by a shortage of staff
and funds. Substantial financial and technical assistance has recently been
requested from, and is under consideration by, the Federal Republic of
Germany.
13.       In addition to CRI, applied trials and demonstration programs
have been operated by Development Boards and MA, the latter sited mainly
at District Agricultural Stations. Prior to 1963, these stations served
as district headquarters for extension staff where recommended practices
were both tested and demonstrated and where staff and farmers were trained.
During 1963 to 1966, the stations were taken over by the United Ghana
Farmers Cooperative Council (UGFCC) and converted to mechanized farming units.
Most of the conservation works were destroyed during this period and although
efforts have been subsequently made to revive their original status they
continue to serve as evidence of soil susceptibility to sheet erosion along
with questionable demonstration of improved technology.
Research Requirements
14.       The substantial improvements in primary research facilities which
are already programmed for the north, should, with some strengthening (see
para 17), suitably serve the area's ongoing development needs. Research
attention under the Project would aim at complementing these improvements
by regional dissemination of recommended practices through a network of
applied trials and demonstrations. This would be achieved by reactivating
the District Agricultural Stations (DAS), which would serve as land planning
1/   The station was transferred to the Scientific Division in 1960 and to
CRI in 1963.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
and crop management centers where staff and farmers would have the opportunity
to observe husbandry practices and techniques specifically geared to the
district's climate, soils and farming systems. The statfon would also under-
take foundation seed production according to the requirements of the seed
multiplication program.
15.       Each DAS would be suitably staffed with a station manager responsi-
ble for day-to-day operations under the direct supervision of the District
Agricultural Officer. Overall responsibility for planning and supervision
would rest with the Farm Management Section of the Agricultural-Technical
Services Department which would include an Applied Research Officer responsible
for trial coordination and close liaison with research workers at Nyankpala,
Manga and Kwadaso.
16.       A realistic approach to research would be essential with trials
directed towards the specific problems of Project management and farmers. This
requires a thorough knowledge and understanding of the traditional farming
systems and an efficient and effective feedback from farmers undertaking
improved cropping practices.
17.       Basic research in developing improved cereal varieties, particularly
maize, sorghum and millet, has not received due attention. In order to ensure
long term progress for crop development in northern Ghana, the Project would
fund the costs of a plant breeder, specialized in grains, who would be seconded
to CRI from an international research institution, such as IITA, and who would
be posted to Manga. Funds would be available for a three-year secondment
agreement to cover costs of a plant breeder and the necessary supporting
infrastructure including housing and equipment. It is expected that the con-
tract would take effect from the second year of Project implementation. De-
tailed costs are at Annex 10. Apart from the direct benefits of improved
cereal breeding and selection, the plant breeder, having the support of an
international institution would be able to introduce new ideas and breeding
material being developed elsewhere in West Africa. Appointment of the plant
breeder would be subject to terms-of-reference, qualifications, and conditions
of employment acceptable to the Bank.
December 4, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Improved Seed Requirement
Seed
Requirement       Start
(kpR/ha)        UP.           1         2          34
Area Planted                                                                          ha..............................  .... ....................
Dwarf Sorghum           Improved            8              500        500       500        500       500       500
Advanced           10                -        250       750      1,500     3,000     6,000
Maize                   Improved           20            1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000
Advanced           25                -        250       750      1,500     2,500     4,o0o
Rice                    Improved           30            4,ooo      4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000     4,000
Advanced           90            1,000      2,000     5,000     10,000    15,000    20,000
Groundnuts              Improved           65            5,000      5,000     5,000      5,000     5,000     5,000
Advanced           90                -      1,000     5,000     10,000    17,500    25,000
Cotton                  Improved          45             3,500      3,500     3,500      3,500    .3,500     3,500
Advanced           45                -      1,000     5,000     10,000    15,000    20,000
Replacement
Rate
Seed Requirement                         (yrs) .                                 tons.
Dwarf Sorghum           Improved            3                         1.3       1.3        1.3       1.3       1.3
Advanced            3                         2.5       5.0        7.5      17.5      35.0
Maize                   Improved            3                         6.7       6.7        6.7       6.7       6.7
Advanced            3                         6.3      12.5       18.3      31.3      50.0
Rice                    Improved            3                       106.7     106.7      106.7     106.7     106.7
Advanced            3                       120.0     300.0      480.0     570.0     750.0
Groundnuts              Improved            5                        65.0      65.0       65.0      65.0      65.0
Advanced            5                        90.0    360.0       450.0     675.0     67?.O
Cotton                  Improved            1                       157.5    157.5       157.5     157.5    157.5
Advanced            1                        45.0    225.0       450.0     675.0    900.0
Total                                                      601.0   1,239.7    1,743.5   2,306.0   2,747.2
September 16, 1975



GHANA
UPPER R2IGoN AGRICULTJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Improved Seed Pn duc tio n Projection
Planting Season
Start Up       1               2                3                4               5
Recovey 1/      Source 2/                                                                                        !         Harvesting Season
...................................... tons.
Commercial Seed Sales 1/
Dwarf Sorghum                                                     IV                                  3.8              6.3             8.8             18.8            36.3
Maize                                                             IV                                 13.0             19.2            25.5             38.0            56.7
Rice                                                              IV                                226.7            406.7           586.7            676.7            856.7
Groindnuts                                                        IV                                155.0            425.0           515.0            740.0            740.0
Cotton                                                            IV                                1 o2.5           382.5           607.5            832.5         1,057.5
........... ........ .                tons.
Purchased from Certified Growers
Dwarf Sorghum                                     80                                          4.8              7.9            11.0             23.5            46.4
Maize                                             70                                         18.6             27.4            36.6             54.3            81.0
Rice                                              80                                        283.4            508.4           733.4            845.9         1,070.9
Groundnuts                                        70                                        221.4            607.1           735.7          1,057.1         1,057.1
Cotton                                            90                                        113.9           425.9            675.0            925.0         1,175.0
Certified Seed Area 3/
Dwarf Sorghum                                                                          3              4                6               12              25               27
Maize                                                                                  9              14              18               27              40               45
Rice                                                                                 130             230             335              385             485              530
Groundnuts                                                                           245             675             815            1,175           1,175            1,315
Cotton                                                                               315           1,065           1,451            1,890           2,350            2,795
Required for Certified Growers
Dwarf Maize                                       60               I,II                0.1             0.1             0.1              0.2             0.4              0.5
Maize                                             60               I,II                0.4             0.6             (.3              1.1              1.7             1.9
Rice                                              60               III                19.5            34.6            50.3             57.8            72.8             79.5
Grcudnuts                                         60               III                36.7           101.3           122.3            176.3           176.3            197.3
Cotton                                            60              III,IV              26.3            88.8           120.9            157.5           195.8            232.9
Purchased from Registered Growers
Rice                                              80                                          43.1            62.9             72.3            91.0            99.4
Groundnut                                         70                                        144.7            174.7            251.9           251.9            281.9
Cotton                                            90                                         98.7            134.4           175.0            217.6            258.8
................................. .tons ..............................
Required for Registered Growers
Rice                                              60               II                  2.9             4.3             4.9              6.2              6.8             6.8
Groundruts                                        60               II                 24.1            29.1            42.0             42.0             47.0            47.0
Cotton                                            60               1T,III             15.2            20.7            27.0             33.6             39.9            39.9
1/ For purchases includes losses from cleaning and grading.
For requirements includes contingency allowances and crop rejections following field and store inspection.
2/ I        -       Breeder Seed
II      -       Foundation Seed
III     -       Registered Seed
IV      -       Certified Seed
3/ Using advamced yields according to crop budgets of Annex 2.
Cotton Seeds yields, based on 60t of seed cotton production, and an average of improved and advamced
growers ari equate to:
Year 1 - 400 kg/ha, Year 2 - 465 kg/ha, Year 3 - 490 kg/ha, Year 4 - 500 kg/ha,
Year 5 - 510 kg/ha.
September 16, 1975



GHANA
UPPER RBGION AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Seed Multiplication Unit Trading Balancf
1          2         -3 
------------------ /ha ---------------------
Projected Market Valiie
Dwarf Sorghum                                                      200         213        224         235         247
Maize                                                              122         129         138        144         150
Paddy                                                              170         163        153         162         167
Groundnuts                                                         484         470        440         435         426
Contract Seed Purchases                                             ------------'--000------------------------
Dwarf Sorghum                      0 x 1.10 market value             1.1         1.9         2.7        6.1        12.3
Maize                                       it                       2.5         3.9         5.5         8.6       13.6
Rice                                         "                      53.0        91.2       123.4      150.7       196.7
Groundnuts                                   "                     117.9       313.9      356.1       505.8       495.4
Total                                                       174.5      410.9       487.7       671.2       718.0
Commercial Seed Sales
Dwarf Sorghum                      @.x 2.0 Market Value              1.3         2.3         3.4         7.7       15.6
Maize                                       it                       2.6         4.3         6.1         9.5       14.8
Rice                                         i                      67.0       115.3       156.1       190.7      248.6
Groundnuts                         0 x 1,5 Market Value             97.9       260.5      2295.6      4l9.9    .L1.2
Total                                                       169.0      382.4       461.2       627.8       690.b
Sale of Seconds
Dwarf Sorghum                      S x.75 Market Value                .2         0.3         0.4         0.8        1.7
Maize                                        "                       0.5         0.8         1.1         1.8        2.7
Rice                                         "                       7.2        12.4        16.8       20.6        26.8
Groundnuts                                   "                      24.1        64.2        72.8       103.5      101.3
Total                                                        3.77.7                 91.1       126.7       132.5
Total Sales                                                201.0       460.1       552.3       754.5       822.9
Trading Balance                                                     '7.5        490         64.6        83.3      104.9
Finance Charges                    4 months @ 10% pa                 5.8        13.7        16.3       22.4        23.9
Trading Profit                                                      20.7        35.5       48.3        60.9        81.0
December 5, 1975



ANNEX 8
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Communications and Training
Contents                                                    Page No.
A.         Background                                                             1
B.         Adult Functional Literacy                                              4
C.         Agricultural Training                                                  5
D.         Communications and the Use of Radio                                    6
E.         Other Communications Media                                             7
F.         Traditional Channels of Communications                                 8
G.         Project Proposals                                                      8
H.         Broadcasting Programming Proposals                                    12
I.         Functional Literacy                                                   13
J.         Agricultural Staff Training                                           16
K.         Organization of the Communications
and Training Department                                            18
Table  1  Upper Region Secondary Level Enrollments & Teaching
Staff 1968-1974
Upper Region Primary School Enrollments & Teacher
Qualifications & Numbers 1968-1974
Upper Region Middle/Continuation School Enrollments
& Teacher Qualifications & Numbers 1968-1974
Table  2  Upper Region Radio Station
Summary of Proposed Weekly Programs in Fourth
Year of Project
Table  3  Proposed Hours of Broadcast






ANNEX 8
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Communications and Training
A. Background
1.        The Upper Region of Ghana has great potential for agriculture, but
the rate of development and the degree of population participation will be
limited unless action is taken to remedy serious deficiencies in communica-
tions, education and training.
The Linguistic Situation
2.        The principal problem is the difficulty in communication caused
by the complex linguistic situation. The following 17 different languages
are spoken in the Region:
(a) Indigenous Spoken Languages
Estimated number of persons
speaking the language in the
Language            Upper Region 1/
Kusaal                       145,000            The same language throughout;
also spoken in Upper Volta.
Bimoba                      Not known           Spoken only in the extreme
east of the Upper Region but
on a larger scale in the
Northern Region; the majority
of the Bimoba in the Upper
Region also speak Kusaal.
Gurenne                     305,000             Also known as "Frafra"; the
existence of dialects does
not seem to hinder comprehension.
Talni                       Not known           Very similar to Gurenne;
not widespread.
Nabit                       Not known           Very similar to Gurenne;
not widespread.
Lankani                      Not known          Little information available.
1/   Figures provided by the Institute of Linguistics, a private institution
in Tamale, using 1960 census figures extrapolated to take account of
population increase.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(a) Indigenous Spoken Languages
Estimated number of persons
speaking the language in the
Language            Upper Region 1/
Kasem                     85,000                One of the two official languages
of the Region; spoken also in
Upper Volta.
Buli                      75,000
Sisaala                   75,000                Has dialects, which probably
complicates communication.
Dagaari                  280,000                The other official language;
different dialects do not
hinder comprehension; spoken
also in Upper Volta.
Wali                       65,000               Very similar to Dagaari, which
is easily understood, but the
people, who dominate commercial
life in the west of the Region,
do not wish to adopt Dagaari
and prefer to retain their own
language.
Chakali                      2,000              The majority of people also
understand Wali.
Birifor                 Not known               The majority of people also
understand Wali.
Koma                        15,000              Little information available.
1/   Figures provided by the Institute of Linguistics, a private institution
in Tamale, using 1960 census figures extrapolated to take account of
population increase.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(b) External Languages
Estimated number of persons
speaking the language in the
Language               Upper Region
Hausa                   Not known               Spoken widely in the towns
mainly in the east, but little
understood in the countryside.
Twi                     Not known               A simple form understood by
many people who have worked
in the south of Ghana.
English                 Not known               The official national language
of Ghana; little understood in
the countryside except by
former school children.
3.        Thus about 75% of the population can be reached through three local
languages, Kusaal, Gurenne and Dagaari, but it is not possible to exclude any
one of these languages without cutting off many thousands of people, nor to
combine one of them with another, as they are distinct languages.
4.        Written Languages.  Officially there are only three written
languages in the Upper Region, Kasem, Dagaari and English; written materials
are produced for them by the Bureau of Ghana Languages. Primary school
children in the Region are instructed in almost all the different languages.
Education and Literacy
5.        The formal education system in Ghana follows the British pattern
but is of longer duration. It includes a four-year middle school inserted
between six years of primary education and seven years of secondary, and is
based largely on a memorization and reproduction concept of education.
6.        Successive governments have made efforts to improve the educational
standards of the people of Ghana. In the early 1960s free and compulsory
primary education was introduced, resulting in substantial increases in
primary school enrollment: 450,000 in 1959/61; 1,140,000 in 1965/66.
(Detailed education enrollment figures for the Upper Region are in Table 1.)
Numerous other forms of Government, private and mission sponsored formal and
nonformal smaller scale education and training schemes have been tried and
continued, often on an uncoordinated basis, over the years.
7.        The various educational efforts in the Upper Region have not had
the desired effect. Some 90% of the population remains illiterate 1/. Only
1/   Estimates vary from 5% to 20% literacy rate.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
22% of the primary age group are in school (compared with 62% for Ghana as a
whole), and 66% of them drop out during the primary course. Due to their
uneconomic enrollments, 130 primary schools had to be closed in 1970/71; entry
into the first year of primary school has not changed significantly for the
last six years 1/. It will take at least 40 years under present policies (and
there is so far little indication of change) for even half of the primary age
group to reach a satisfactory level of literacy 2/.  There is now, furthermore,
clear evidence of resistance, on the part of parents, to education both for
their children and themselves; it is unlikely that the education provided by
the Ministry of Education can bring about substantial improvement of condi-
tions in the Upper Region within the near future.
B. Adult Functional Literacy
8.        The first efforts towards literacy training for adults started in
Ghana in 1948. In 1952, after four years of research, a mass literacy cam-
paign using the Laubach method was launched. In the Upper Region, written
material was prepared in Gurenne, Dagaari and Kasem, and rural newspapers
were published in Dagaari and Kasem. By 1956, however, the program began
to falter; further work has been limited. The reasons for failure were that:
(a) literacy did not result in any improvement in living standards;
(b) voluntary instructors lost interest, as no rewards were given
for their efforts;
(c) mistakes were made in applying the Laubach method too rigidly,
in often not selecting suitable instructors, and in discourag-
ing initiative on the part of individual literacy groups;
(d) local languages were never used in official administrative or
commercial documents, and the rural press did not always publish
material of interest to readers; and
(e) eventually, the Department of Community Development, which was
responsible for the campaign, changed the emphasis of its work
to other aspects, including self-help schemes and well construc-
tion, and withdrew material support from the literacy program.
9.        There remain, however, some traces of the campaign in the Region;
a number of people are able to read and write in Dagaari and Kasem, and
classes continue on a small scale, particularly in Dagaari. The new con-
cept of "functional" literacy is virtually unknown.
1/   Although in 1973/74 there was an increase in enrollments in the first
year of primary education, which is believed to have been due to a deter-
mined effort by chiefs and Government officials to persuade parents to
send their children to school.
2/   Assuming that present enrollment trends persist and that 'retained
literacy' is measured as the completion of four years of primary
education.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
10.       In 1971, the Institute of Linguistics launched an experimental
literacy program in the Bimoba language, which is spoken mostly in the
Northern Region, and is showing very promising results. Instruction is
given in the local language for two years 1/ and then participants learn
English. The first year results in the acquisition of basic reading
and writing skills; the second year makes these skills fully functional.
Special "bridge materials," carefully devised to take account of the struc-
ture of the local language, are then used to introduce English in the
third year. Great care is taken in selecting instructors; they are nor-
mally chosen by the villagers, who tend to reject former school pupils
who are no longer integrated into village life. Classes begin with 15
students and two instructors; after a month, the group is divided into two.
One group is likely to complete the whole three-year program; the other
often closes down after basic skills have been acquired, in which case the
instructors responsible for the latter then commence with another group.
C. Agricultural Training
11.       Degree courses in agriculture are offered by the University of
Ghana (UG), and the University of Science and Technology (UST); annual
outturn is 30-40 and 50-60 respectively. Horticulture diplomas are
offered at UST (annual outturn 40) and diplomas in agriculture, animal
health and home economics at UG (average combined annual outturn is limited
to 35 through lack of residential accommodation). All diploma courses are of
two-year duration, for which Ministry of Agriculture Technical Officer grades
are eligible provided they are in possession of a school certificate; Ministry
staff at the B-grade are eligible for degree training provided they satisfy
minimum academic entry requirements.
12.       Certificate courses, the basic agricultural qualification, are
available at agricultural colleges at Kwadaso (intake 181), Nyankpala (intake
70) and Ohawu (intake 51). Minimum entry qualification is GCE/school certifi-
cate; course duration is two years, followed by one year as a trainee in the
field. Of the 181 vacancies at Kwadaso, 50 are available for Ministry of
Agriculture junior employees who are middle school leavers with a minimum of
five years field experience. For this category a probationary first year
residential course in basic sciences is provided covering physics, chemistry,
biology, maths, English and introductory economics; successful students then
complete the two-year residential agricultural course but are exempt from the
trainee year in the field.
13.       Present output at the higher level (degree and diploma) is suffi-
cient for Project requirements, but the Upper Region's share of certificate
level outturn is likely to fall short of requirements; this would be compen-
sated by induction and inservice training under the Project at Navrongo
Farm Institute.
1/   A "year" means, in fact, the 3-4 month period during the dry season.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
14.       Navrongo Farm Institute was established in 1964 with USAID
financing as a joint institute for Upper and Northern Regions. The
Institute has dormitory capacity for 120 but beds and bedding for only
70 students. It has workshops and a residential teaching staff of five.
The Institute also has a farm, but it is located some five miles from
the site. The main thrust of the training program is directed towards
Form IV school leavers with agricultural backgrounds who receive a one-
year general agriculture course. The training objective is to have
trainees who have successfully completed the course return to the land
to form a cadre of technically more competent and commercially aware
farmers.
15.       The training program manifests in many ways Government's frus-
tration at, and neglect and disesteem of, the traditional smallholder,
who has consistently shown himself to be a more efficient and constant
producer than his commercial counterpart. Less than 60% of trainees
return to the land after the course. At present there is considerable
underutilization of facilities. A shortage of spare parts has produced
a graveyard of unserviceable and sometimes unused equipment.
D. Communications and the Use of Radio
16.       Rural Broadcasting.  Ghana has long experience of rural broad-
casting, having started its first specialized programs in 1962. In 1965,
UNESCO supported a large scale scheme for setting up rural radio forums
for organized groups for (a) group listening; (b) subsequent discussion            (
and action; (c) feedback to the ratio station, with advice to the authorities
on problems and feelings in the villages; and (d) participation by villagers
in actual programs. Some 230 farm forums function today.
17.       A staff of 14 GBC professionals produces programs which include
farm magazines, dramatized serials, discussions, question and answer pro-
grams, farm forum programs and specially designed musical programs with an
agricultural slant. The rural broadcasting unit broadcasts in five of the
principal Ghanaian languages, in programs varying from 30 minutes per week
in Nzema to three hours per week in Akan, but not in any of the languages
of the Upper Region. It is not surprising and of some concern to the
authorities that many listeners in the Upper Region, therefore, turn to
Upper Volta for programs which they can understand. Although GBC has a
small relay station at Bolgatanga, no special material is produced for
the Upper Region.
18.       Yet radio is potentially the most important communication/educa-
tion training input available to the Project: it can make an impact in a
relatively short period of time and in a geographically defined area; it
can reach illiterates as well as literates and establish close and conti-
nuous links between Project management and the people the Project is designed
to serve. The Project envisages a series of tasks and goals which can be



ANNEX 8
Page 7
much more easily attained where there is active motivation, participation
and understanding of the process involved. Hence, the need for an input
which "educates" both people in the field (chiefs, farmers, extension
workers, officers in charge of service centers, literacy instructors)
and the management of the Project, which needs to be aware continuously
of problems being encountered, and able to respond to questions and
suggestions put to it.
19.       For the individual farmer, radio can provide news of direct
relevance, practical advice adapted to seasonal conditions, and informa-
tion on farmers' rights and how they may be-asserted--the absence of
which factor often results in sullen discouragement and an obstacle
to development. The members of the family can be reached regularly
on problems of sanitation, nutrition and family planning, and radio
can also fill a void in entertainment and relaxation: the flight from
rural monotony is one of the elements in the exodus of the young.
20.       Transmission and Reception.  Reception is largely through
transistor radios; it is not known how many of these exist in the Region.
Listeners in towns are able to subscribe to a subsidized rediffusion
service, but this is proving excessively expensive and is likely, even-
tually, to go out of use. At present, the Government has a 'short wave
only' policy, and plans to market a new preset receiver, able to receive
only GBC programs, at a cost of about 025 per set--less than half the
cost of the most common AM/FM/SW sets now available.
21.       The Government has also decided, and has made provisions
in its five-year plan, for the introduction of regional FM broadcast-
ing facilities. The reasons are that the sound quality in FM broad-
casting is much better, transmitters are easier to install and maintain,
and programs can be beamed directionally, thereby giving maximum effec-
tiveness with limited transmission power, a factor of considerable
importance for the Project, which intends to broadcast programs mainly
to an Upper Region audience.
22.       The principal disadvantages of FM broadcasting are (a) the
higher cost of receivers (production lines in most industrialized
countries do not produce FM/SW receivers although these would be the ideal for
the proposed Project); and (b) since existing radio sets in the Upper Region
would not be able to receive FM regional programs, it would, therefore, be
necessary to ensure rapid dispersal of new receivers to potential listeners.
E. Other Communications Media
23.       Ghana's extension services use other means of communication
to aid them in their work. Although there are at present five mobile
cinema vans in the Upper Region, plus others operated by the Ghanaian/



ANNEX 8
Page 8
German Agricultural Development Project and the family plannng unit of
the Ministry of Health, serious difficulties have been encountered
in their use: the cost of films is so high that few have been produced
which are of relevance to the Upper Region; the units are so thinly
spread that individual villages can be visited only very infrequently;
and producing commentaries in languages other than that of the film
is a delicate task, since the images have a stronger impact than words
and words are not really understood unless clearly related to the image.
24.       A number of mission stations and other institutions in the Upper
Region have equipment for the projection of slides and film strips accom-
panied either by live or tape-recorded commentary. Still images, in color,
frequently instruct more effectively than moving images, except where
movement of itself is crucial (as in the case of animal husbandry).
Although film strips are cheap and simple to produce, the medium is little
explored or available in the Region. The introduction of video (portable
television) has proven particularly effective in rural areas in other
countries in training and social communication, but its introduction into
the Project would encounter technical and distribution problems. Simple
audio-visual aids (flip charts, flannelgraphs, graphics, overhead projection)
are also of undoubted value in training and extension.
F. Traditional Channels of Communication
25.       The people of the Upper Region share a common past, linguistic
roots and customs, but the contemporary existence of distinct languages
leaves each group relatively ignorant of and unconcerned by the activity
of others. Traditional forms of expression include dancing, music played
on flute and string instruments, and the singing of women. Of special
importance is story telling by old and young; its role in the transmission
of Project policies could be emphasized through radio. Radio should also
become, in time, a catalyst for these different forms of expression,
welding the population into common awareness and effort through dissemi-
nation and explanation of the diverse local customs.
G. Project Proposals
Radio Broadcasting
26.       The Project would establish a regional radio broadcasting service
for the Upper Region that would initially broadcast in the three main lan-
guages. The facilities would be owned and operated by the Ghana Broadcasting
Corporation, and would, with advice from the Project Management Unit, broad-
cast news, entertainment and educational material to support the overall
objectives of the Project.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
27.       The Project would follow Government policy in regard to developing
FM broadcasting, and would be conceived in such a way as to minimize opera-
tional costs. The proposed system would:
-    utilize existing GBC installations;
-    provide simple facilities so that existing staff could operate
the equipment; and
-    have a low power consumption.
The broadcasting facility would consist of five medium-effective power trans-
mitting stations, to be operated as a network, at Bolgatanga, Bawku, Tumu,
Lawra and Wa. A single production center would be located at Bolgatanga to
produce and control all Upper Region programming activities.
28.       Transmission.  Topography and vegetation information confirm that,
from a signal propagation aspect, FM is practical and preferable. AM trans-
mission could also be a practical alternative, with an initial investment
cost of + US$50,000 of the FM installation cost (the latter estimated at
US$64,500). However, the power consumption for AM would be double that of FM.
The FM system would incorporate at a low incremental cost a good quality two-
way communication system that would allow transmittal of Project material
from distant locations to Bolgatanga for either direct or deferred broadcast,
which would be a great asset in a region where telecommunications are vir-
tually nonexistent. The main drawback to FM is that most of the existing
receivers in the Region are thought to be AM/SW or SW only. However, adequate
FM/AM receivers are available and some 22,000 would be sold to Project farmers
on credit.
29.       Production Facilities.  The operational concept of the studio is
based on a one-man operation. Both studio and recording facilities would use
a horseshoe configuration of equipment. The studio would be equipped with a
dual-channel console to allow two functions to take place simultaneously.
The main studio would be supplemented by a small recording studio. Details
on the equipment are in the consultant's report dated November 30, 1975.
30.       Transmitting Facilities.  Five transmitting stations, each with
omnidirectional pattern and circularly polarized radiation characteristics,
would be established. The Bolgatanga station would be the mother station;
Bawku and Tumu would be fed off-air from Bolgatanga, and Lawra and Wa would
be fed off-air from Tumu. The following summarizes transmission parameters:



ANNEX 8
Page 10
Approx.       Tower         Approx.
Locations             EHAAT /1       Height          ERP /2    Polarization
(feet)        (feet)         (KW)
Bolgatanga              500           500            7.1          circular
Tumu                    350           400            5.5          circular
Lawra                   350           400            5.5          circular
Wa                      225           300            5.7          circular
Bawku                   150           200            6.0          circular
/1   EHAAT - electrical height of antenna above terrain.
/2   ERP - effective radiation power.
31.       Transmission frequencies have not been and need not be selected at
this time. Final choice should be made while keeping in mind downstream and
upstream off-air and image frequency relationships.
32.       In the interest of economy in regard to both initial investment and
operational costs, no new sites would be developed, but use would be made of
existing GBC relay stations and personnel, although in one or two cases some
additional land might be required.
33.       Subchannel Feature.  FM broadcast is inherently capable of easily
carrying two subchannel facilities. It is proposed to implement one upstream
subchannel towards Bolgatanga from each of the other four stations. By the
same token a downstream facility is included for cue purposes. The upstream
facility permits feeding local reports from each of the four distant stations
towards Bolgatanga. The technical quality of this communications feature
would be comparable to outside broadcast equipment, and would thus permit
either direct broadcasting or recording for delayed playback, editing, etc.
Such reports could be contributed by part-time network reporters, and would
be particularly attractive to the listeners.
34.       Equipment Operation.  GBC would be required to supplement its
existing regional engineering staff by a specialized maintenance technician
who would be based at Bolgatanga and would proceed to the other four loca-
tions on a regular basis to check all equipment and restore it to proper
operation. Since the equipment is very simple, a single engineer would be
sufficient to maintain it. The existing GBC personnel located at relay
radio stations would attend the transmitter, turn equipment on and off,
record meter readings, report symptoms of improper operation and operate
the subchannel and associated equipment.
35.       Equipment Procurement.  A consultant systems engineer would be
employed to prepare, in cooperation with GBC authorities, detailed specifica-
tions for the towers, transmitters, and transmitting antennas and feeders.
For the balance of equipment, for which no single item exceeds US$10,000, a
shopping list approach would be taken to achieve optimum value and equipment



ANNEX 8
Page 11
mix. Erection of towers and installation of antennas and feeders would be
undertaken by the tower supplier and would form part of the tower specifi-
cations. A separate installation crew, directed and supervised by an
installation engineer, would install transmitters and studio equipment.
Details of transmitting and recording equipment costs are at Annex 11, and
are detailed in the consultant's report.
36.       Consultant Requirement.  A consultant(s) is required to assist
GBC staff in detailing equipment specification and supervising installation.
The consultant(s) should have a minimum of four to five years experience
in the field of broadcasting if he is from an engineering company whose
senior members have a minimum of ten years experience. If in private
practice, he should have a minimum of ten years experience. For systems
engineering, he should have no interest in the manufacture or supply of
equipment. For installation engineering, he should have at least a minimum
of experience in the field of installation. The consultant(s) responsibi-
lities would, in conjunction with GBC, include:
(a) for systems engineering:
-   systems design;
-   preparation of equipment list;
-   preparation of purchase specifications for towers, antennas,
and transmitters;
-   preparation of shopping list for balance of equipment;
-   evaluation of bids and recommendations;
-   preparation of systems and installation drawings; and
-   preparation of final coverage patterns.
(b) for installation engineering:
-   general project management and coordination;
-   supervision of installation and general field engineering
as required;
-   checking out all major equipment including antennas;
systems adjustments;
systems operational check out;
field intensity measurements to confirm proper operation
of systems;



ANNEX 8
Page 12
preparation of final report;
provision of a minimum of one-month on-site training
for operational and maintenance personnel.
H. Broadcasting Programming Proposals
37.       The introduction of languages would be phased; Kusaal, Gurenne,
and Dagaari would be broadcast from the inception of broadcasting in the
second year of the Project. Suggested program content, hours and alloca-
tion of time for regional material and direct relay of GBC 1 from Accra
are shown in Table 3, and envisage 86 hours of broadcasting per week,
of which 55 would be produced in the Region; however, program content would
have to be adapted to local conditions and would vary with the seasons and
school year.
38.       Group Participation and Feedback.  A utilization section would be
set up at the Communications and Training Department of the Project to assist
local communities in organizing listening groups, to allocate receivers to
groups and assure their maintenance to stimulate feedback, to analyze feed-
back and feed it to program producers and Project management, and to cooperate
with the evaluation section of the Project in evaluating the success of pro-
grams. Staff speaking each of the three languages would regularly visit the
appropriate parts of the Region.
39.       Staff Requirements and Training.  GBC, like other organizations in
Ghana, appears overstaffed; one of the objectives of Radio Bolgatanga would
be to develop a self-operating system whereby the programming staff under-
take operational functions as well. Bearing in mind that the Project would
provide considerable back-up support in program preparation, incremental
staffing for Radio Bolgatanga is proposed as follows: 17 program staff,
eight news reporters, one engineer, and nine administrative staff including
subordinate daily paid workers. Details at Annex 3.
40.       The station would be an integral part of GBC; station staff would
operate under GBC terms and conditions, although good quality staff would be
attracted by the provision of adequate housing. The annual regional pro-
gram would be prepared by GBC in consultation with the Senior Communica-
tions and Training Officer of the Project, and would be approved by
URADPEC.
41.       Special training courses to commence in PYI would be given at the
GBC training school in Accra, especially for those speaking the languages
of the Upper Region, which are not currently spoken at GBC. For adminis-
tration, program direction and technical operations, however, the Project
would rely on experienced staff transferred from Accra. Funds would be
available to key staff for short overseas training courses in local broad-
casting. A reserve of recorded material, including music and stories,
would be assembled in advance of the opening of the three language programs.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
I. Functional Literacy
42.       This program component, with its emphasis on the functional nature
of literacy, represents a new approach for Ghana; previous literacy campaigns
have been traditional in approach and unrelated to economic development. The
proposals are, therefore, experimental and the results would need to be eva-
luated. It would try to avoid past mistakes and benefit from recent research
in literacy methods conducted by the Institute of Linguistics in Tamale.
Recommendations for a Region-wide, functional literacy program would be made
only if the pilot scheme proved successful.
43.       Groups.  Sixty groups would be formed, totaling some 1,500 partici-
pants; each group would commence with 25 participants, of whom 15 to 20 would
be expected to complete the program. Thirty groups would be instructed in
an area served by two service centers in Lawra District and 30 groups by two
service centers in Bolgatanga District. These areas have been chosen because
they contain the two largest language groups in the Region, representing some
two thirds of the population. Lawra District was chosen in preference to
Wa, which is in the same area, to avoid difficulties which might arise due
to rivalry between Dagaari and Wali speaking people. Participants would be
in the age group 15 to 40 years old, and consist primarily of farmers using
the service centers. The actual location of groups would be decided during
Project implementation in response to requests from villagers.
44.       Instruction.  During the first weeks, instruction would be based
on documents used by farmers in the overall program (for purchase of inputs,
sale of production, simple calculations, etc.); later, other literature
would be introduced on improved methods of cultivation, calculation of
areas, production costs, etc. A knowledge of what is said on official
forms would help to dissipate suspicion, which often arises amongst farmers,
on the motives of persons dealing with their financial problems. Therefore,
basic program documents used by farmers in the two areas would be printed
in the local languages as well as in English.
45.       Instruction in the first year (meaning, in effect, the dry season
from December to May of the second year of the Project) would be given in
the local languages, as this is the most satisfactory way of ultimately
teaching English -- a knowledge of which is widely desired in the Region.
Some participants would be expected to abandon the instruction at the end
of the first year either because of difficulties encountered or, more
probably, in order to join the annual exodus to the south to seek work;
these participants would have received some usable knowledge which would
enable them to understand simple rural newspapers.
46.       In the second and third years (fourth and fifth years of the Proj-
ect), the use of written and spoken English would be gradually introduced.
The instruction would be supported by the use of slides at least twice per
month and collective listening to regional radio programs. Those who



ANNEX 8
Page 14
completed the full program would reach a level enabling them to assist in
the operation of service centers, and to initiate, participate in and
lead group activities and farmers associations or cooperatives.
47.       Staff.  The pilot scheme would be prepared and organized by a
specialist with practical experience of functional literacy in the rural
environment, preferably in Africa (for three years); he would instruct
Ghanaian personnel (one at the level of principal community development
officer, two at that of community development officer and four at the level
of assistant community development officer; two speaking Dagaari and two
Gurenne) in the planning, organization, material production and implementa-
tion of the program. An illustrator/photographer would also be recruited,
plus three secretaries capable of typing in local languages. To ensure
adequate evaluation, technical assistance would be provided for two months
during the second year of the overall Project and for two months in the
fifth year.
48.       Because of the lack of uniformity in typical groups, two instructors
would be chosen for each group. One subgroup could then be instructed at a
more rapid rate than the other. Special attention would be paid to (a) the
necessity of choosing persons fully integrated in village life, and hence (b)
selection of instructors by the villagers themselves, and (c) the frequent
unsuitability for literacy instruction of teachers trained to deal with
children. To avoid the creation of a "bureaucratic" spirit and excessive
expenditure in any subsequent expansion, motivation of instructors would be
augmented by awarding simple gifts, e.g., uniforms, badges, certificates and,
in cases of particular success, issuing to the instructor, at the end of a
program, the collective radio used by the group. Particular importance would
be attached to moral support and visits by Government personalities.
49.       Relations with Other Agencies.  The pilot scheme would be an
integral part of the Communications and Training Department of the Project;
relationships with the Community Development Department of the Ministry of
Labor, Social Welfare and Cooperatives would be achieved through the Project
Coordinating Committee, by exchange of information on progress being made
and, through assistance given by the Department, the release of appropriate
personnel to implement the scheme.
50.       Preparation of Teaching Materials.  Syllabi and reading matter in
local languages would be prepared during the first year, English language
material in the second year. For the transition from the local languages
into English, special "bridge materials" would be prepared with the assist-
ance of the Institute of Linguistics (for Gurenne) and the Language Study
Center of the Catholic Mission at Wa (for Dagaari). A cyclostyled local
language press containing information directly of interest to farmers,
regional news and correspondence from instructors, would be established for
each language group, using the printing facilities of the Project. The
Bureau of Ghana Languages at its Tamale office would assist in producing
simple brochures designed for the elementary stages of the program; at a
later stage, such brochures would also be produced in English as part of



ANNEX 8
Page 15
the overall Project. Sets of 15 slides with tape-recorded local language
commentaries would be prepared with the help of Catholic Mission audio-
visual centers. The regional radio station would also provide programs
of (a) motivation (items illustrating the value of literacy, announce-
ments of local language publications and interviews with new literates);
(b) encouragement (news of progress being made in the different centers,
visits by personalities, ceremonies for awarding certificates, news of
successes); and (c) educational content for group listening.
51.       Construction, Furniture and Equipment.  The Project would provide
office accommodation and equipment at Bolgatanga with two staff houses
plus an additional house for each of the two districts where the pilot
scheme would operate; transport would be provided for staff and audio
visual aid equipment for the unit.
52.       Each literacy group would be provided with a lamp and "kit" compris-
ing the necessary instructional material; fuel would also be provided for the
lamp so as to ensure that a lack of this would not become an obstacle during
the pilot scheme. Purchase of batteries for the group radio would be the
responsibility of the participants.
53.       Evaluation.  During his first visit the evaluator would:
(a) examine the situation existing before the start of the
program, including, in particular, the level of knowledge,
simple arithmetic, agricultural techniques, the capacity
of potential participants to utilize the services of the
Project and to form interest groups, and their attitudes
towards literacy and towards local lanuguages;
(b) define the objectives to be attained, including the level of
knowledge, the number of participants to be trained, and
the best utilization of the knowledge to be gained;
(c) collaborate with the head of the scheme in planning the
work program, producing material, training instructors,
and experimental aspects;
(d) introduce a method of collecting data during the scheme,
with appropriate arrangements where subsequent changes
in the work program have to be made.
54.       During the absence of the evaluator, the head of the scheme would
ensure the collection of all appropriate data including enrollments, drop-
outs, levels attained, dates of courses, facilities available, help given
by the radio, press, official and private agencies, opposition, obstacles
met, expenses incurred and results achieved; also adjustments in planning
the work in light of progress made.



ANNEX 8
Page 16
55.       During his second visit (in the fifth year), the evaluator
would examine:
(a) the way in which the experiment had progressed, with particular
reference to its planning, the number of participants (men, women,
dropouts), and the factors which had played a role in its success or
failure;
(b) knowledge acquired by participants in local languages, English,
arithmetic, new agricultural techniques, farm budgeting, sanitation,
etc.;
(c) efficiency of teaching methods, use of visual aids, contribution of
radio;
(d) use made of knowledge acquired; reading of the rural press, brochures,
participation in the overall Project, organization and management of
interest groups, correspondence, etc.;
(e) as far as possible, the economic profitability of literacy, its real
costs and benefits, including a comparison with the costs of tradi-
tional education;
(f) the direct benefits of the program, e.g., greater motivation, atti-
tudes towards local languages, towards literacy, progress made by
Ghana in accepting the concept of functional literacy, influences on
the evaluation of the education system.
56.       The evaluator should also make recommendations for the future
and, in particular, for the design of a larger scale program of functional
literacy for the Region. Evaluation of this Project component would be
combined with the work of the Project's Planning, Evaluation, and Monitor-
ing Department.
57.       The Future.  At the end of the fifth year, follow-up of the new
literates through continued provision of appropriate English and local
language written material should be assured through collaboration with the
Community Development Department and/or the Ministry of Information.
J. Agricultural Staff Training
58.       A fundamentally new approach to training would be established
under the Project. This would commence conceptually with a downgrading
of sophistication for both staff and farmer training to a level commensurate
with proven research within the area and the environment within which it
would be applied. This would be followed by a thorough inventory of
existing infrastructure in the Region and a re-allocation of buildings
and equipment to uses which would most effectively serve the overall
development objectives of the Project.



ANNEX 8
Page 17
59.       Courses specifically for school leavers would be discontinued
at Navrongo which would, initially, be fully involved in general staff
induction courses and in specific training of the various extension
service task forces. Staff refresher courses would be a continuing
commitment; the degree of involvement in induction training would depend
on the proportion of agricultural assistant trainees that the Project
requires prior to sufficient outturn from preservice training institu-
tions.
60.       Lower echelon farmer training would be undertaken by extension
field staff in group meeting houses at service center level; instruction
at this level would be informal and based on day courses since the
essence of the syllabus would be to provide specific, relevant and
regular tuition catering to those unable to leave their farms for long
periods. Such training would also by supported by day courses and
visits to district agricultural stations where farmers would have the
opportunity to observe applied research specifically directed towards
their farming systems problems and ecological conditions.
61.       At a higher echelon, this would be supported by creating a
main field research base at Navrongo where district agricultural station
managers and trainee staff could observe and be trained in new technology.
As the Project progresses, the Institute would also cater to more advanced
and longer duration farmers training; farmers so selected would be those who
emerge as receptive to advice and as influential leaders within their commu-
nities. Such courses would be part of an integrated program involving
necessary follow-up supervision by extension staff on completion of the
course.
62.       This trend would also mark the gradual evolution of the Institute
into an expanded spectrum of activities catering to basic commercial and
artisanal needs among Project staff and farmers that are expected to
emerge parallel with the area's overall economic growth. All such courses
would have a strong practical bias with short term training assistance
provided by staff from other Project departments.
63.       At the management level, the Project Management Unit would ensure
that a satisfactory managcmcnt training program is implemented for Ghanaian
staff. The development of local managerial capability would be an important
objective of the Project; Government would ensure that Ghanaian staff with
high technical and managerial potential are posted to key local appointments.



ANNEX 8
Page 18
K. Organization of the Communications and Training Department
64.       The Department would be headed by an internationally recruited
Senior Communications and Training Officer who would be directly responsible
to the Project Manager. As head of the Department he would be responsible
for the coordination of training and communications activities, and would
have a particular responsibility to see that training courses were properly
organized and that the training content fully reflected the needs of the
Project.
January 7, 1976



UPPER lROIMI AOHICUITUAI, nEVEW,PllIO  PdOJFCT
Ijpen~ Region Secod-V Lvel . feelimn- 0 Teahing Staff 1968 - 1974
1968/69                 lI.   Feesit        Total    1969/70        Mlsl     Female    Total    1970/71    Male-         Female    Total    1971I/ 72    Male.        Female    Total    197 2/73    Male          Female    Total    1973174   Male            Feaale      Total
T-ah-o Training Colleges          1,397       319       1,456                 1,115        348      1,463                 1,014         379      1,433                  992          398      1,390                   785         317      1,095                  574        259           833
S--od-ny Sotnola                 1,041       275        1,316                 1,267        311      1,578                1,472          348      1,820                1,708          390      2,0981               2,325          4g0      2,805                2,544        37 2        3,216
Te-hoi-lInololn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   124                      124
TEAUgIIC STAFF
Total  OtnlnRpalnat                       Total  Olsani-  Enpa-i-t                   ToteS  Etaaolp-i-a                        Tota   Ghan..lan  Enpartia-                Total  Ghana.a -     eatnte..               Totl.1     aaa   lptlt
Staff  8L      F  M1         F  1969/70  Staff  8_        F  H1.       F  1970/71  Stff  M1         FI8           F  1971/72  Itaff  0L        F  M         P1972/73  Staff  8           P  M-         P  1973/74   Staff   IL    PI  M              F
T-h-SsTl,..Lngflege              93   77       7   0         I              97   76      9   8         4               88   70      6 93         3               93   74      9   8         2               65   53      7   4         1                82    OR           6         4
e-adany Stheale                   80   33       2  31       14               91   37      3 3    25     6             107   57       3  23       17              113   635     2  22        26              166  Ill      7  22        71               131   114       2  26       24
Cn,-intl1 Schoolo
Te-hnical Ieo-tittona.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11    15
inner RegioR Primaey ScOrnl Eonoljneto mad T-aci- Qaolfi-tcit-l  nd Ouelb-en  1968-1 937
Total  Qualified      Popila!    Quolified
a1         P2         P3         Pi,        P5          Pd       Q-         Ocoqo       Tosol  T-ah-e  Toachrp    Tnochrne    Te...n
1968/69      8,857      6,555      6,023       6,,747     4,791      7,761      70,089    13,672        41,747     2,313        557         19:1          75:1
196b9/70     B0,77      5,073      5,24o2      5,521      5,4113     5,677      23,463    11,430        35,2)3    1,913         536         18:1         66:1
1970/71      0,413      5,753      4,392      4,457       4,557      11,950     22,114    11,311        33,575    1,541         657         21:1l        51 :1
1971/32      0,108      5,720      11,542     4,220       3,911      3.931      70,052    17,714        37,750     1,332        725         23:1         42:1
1972/73      0,9/n      55,971     4,032       3,905      3,6407    1,550       20,324      170,450     37,9082    1 ,232       795         25:1          39:1
177/71       9,802      7,052      4,774       3,974      3,401      3,060      77,354      10,798      31,154,    1,21.        857         75:1          36:1
Onnon Rm02on 82ddle/rontinnotiac Sohool Thplamto & Taoolen Oo-lif-ctm... &Nuen
1968 - 1974
Totol        Qualified          Pop1 10/     Qalife
00  82                       8111~~~~~~~~~K  DY       OhioL          T.sa1          TnacY,nr s       Te ,e.          T-h-nop        Teahers
1 960/69        4,737        4,207         2,542         2, 29       11.301          3,2507        5,061              407              252           31              59
1 959/91        S9/  4,9~        998       j,591         2,233       11,4%          4L,325        15,021              550               279          28              57
19707/1         4,552        4,742         4,721         3,052       12,02i         4,921o        17.927              olS               352          20              48
1971/72         4.197        11,193        3,919         1,934       11,153          5,05 1       14,200               b41             1117          25              39
1972/73         3,343         3,433        3,402         3, 4 0       3,0549        4,458         1J,707              50                47           23              30
1973/34         3,314         3,194        3,211         2,997        0,332          4,337        12,709               584             115           22              27
Sepleebnr 18, 1915



ANNEX 8
Table 2
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upper Region Radio Station
Summary of Proposed Weekly Programs in Second Year of Project
Total No. of hours to be    Of which, produced
broadcast by regional        in the Region '(including
station                      repeated programs)
Monday-Saturday            72 hours                      45 hours, 30 minutes
Sunday                     14 hours                       9 hours, 40 minutes
TOTAL                      86 hours                      55 hours, 10 minutes
January 6, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 3
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTA% DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Hours of Broadcast
(With three national languages plus English)
Weekdays:  Monday-Saturday  (Note:  in evenings, alternation of languages A, B, C;
R means that the said program is to be repeated on
another day.)
5.00 a.m.       Music with short agricultural announcements, regional announcements
and government messages (in one language of the Region, say C)
5.30            News in language  A:  10 minutes of news, 5 minutes of farm information
5.45            News in language  B:  10 minutes of news, 5 minutes of farm information
6.0o            News in English from Accra
6.15            Musical Interlude
6.20            News and farm information in language C
6.35            Musical Interlude
6.45            News and farm information in language A.  (Repeat of 5:30_5:45)
7.00            News in English and Ghanaian papers from Accra
7.30            News and farm information in language B.  (Repeat of 5:45-6:00)
7.45            News and farm information in language C.  (Repeat of 6:20-6:35)
8.00            Musical Interlude
8.10            Sign-toff
10.25            Agricultural education - English (R)
10.45            SchQol broadcasts from Accra (on Saturday, including repeat of
Sunday's programs)
11.55            Music - record request hour or national music from the Region



ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 2
13.00 (p.m.)     News in English from Accra
13.30             Continue programs from Accra, including school broadcasts (on
Saturdays, including repeat of Sunday's programs)
14.45             Program for women, nutrition, health, etc.  Language A.  (R)
15.15            Sign-off
17.30            Music of Language A (R)
17.45            Dramatic serial with social content - language A (R)
18.00             News in English - Accra
18.15             Story telling in language B (R)
18.30            Folk music of language C (R)
18.50            Farm Forum, language C (R)
19.15            News in language A
19.30             News in language B
19.45            News in language C
20.00            News and commentary - Accra
20.30            Project information and/or training for agents, teachers, etc.
in language B (R)
21.00            Music and enerteir-ment in language C (B)
21.30             Sign-off
NOTE:            Women's program in one language per day, Monday-Saturday
Farm Forum program in one language per day
Friday morning program (8.00-8.15) for Moslem religion
The above schedule is purely imaginary and does not pretend to anti-
cipate acutal programming which will have to be developed in close
contact with Project and Region.
The schedule serves purely to estimate requirements of staff and
operating expenses.
Use of three languages plus English may be reached from the first
year of operating the station (second year of project).



ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 3
SUMMARY: (Monday-Saturday)
Morning           3 hours 10 minutes        (2 hours 25 minutes from Region)
Midday            4 hours 50 minutes        (1 hour 55 minutes from Region)
Evening           4 hours                   (3 hours 15 minutes from Region)
TOTAL            12 hours                   (7 hours 35 minutes from Region)
Sundays:
5.30 a.m.       Music
5.45            Weekly news and information in languages A-C, with musical interludes
7.00            News in English - Accra and papers
7.30            Farmers' questions and answers in A (rotate, i.e., next week B, then
C, back to A). (R)
8.oo             News summary - Accra
8.05            Religious service in B (rotate denominations and languages)
8.30            Poetry or stories in C (R)
8.45             Program for youth in A (R)
9.15            Music
9.45            Review of week's news in A-C (repeat of 5.45-7.00)
10.30             Sign-off
12.00 (noon)      Music, story telling with rural slant in C (R)
12.30             Requested music in A
13.00             News in English - Accr%
13.30            Discussion program in C (R)
14.00             Rural Magazine in A (R)
14.30             Discussion program in B (R)



ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 4
(Sundays)
15.00 (p.m.)     Music
15.30             Sports from Accra
17.30             Music from Accra
18.00             News in English from Accra
18.15             Program for literacy in C (R)
18.30             Folk music in A (R)
18.50             Farm Forum in A (R)
19.15             News and talks in A
19.30             News and talks in B
19.45             News and talks in C
20.00             News in English - Accra
20.15             News commentary from Accra
20.30             Hymns by groups from the Region in A (R)
20.45             A play in B (R)
21.15             Music
21.30             Close down.
SUMMARY: (Sundays)
From Region:   9 hours 10 minutes
From Accra:    4 hours 20 minutes
TOTAL:        13 hours 30 minutes
January 7, 1976



ANNEX 9
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Development
Contents                                             Page Number
A.   Background                                                       1
B.   Project Proposals                                               1
C.   Soil Conservation                                               2
D.   Water Conservation                                              4
E.   Irrigation                                                      6
F.   Fish Ponds                                                      7
G.   Maintenance of Works                                            7
H.   Tree Planting                                                   7
I.   Research                                                        9
J.   Aerial Photography                                              9
K.   Grain Storage                                                  10
L.   Village Wells                                                  10
M.   Soil and Water Conservation Working                             11
Account (SWCA)
Table I   Soil and Water Conservation:  Equipment Output Rates
Table 2   Soil and Water Conservation Working Account:  Unit
Plant Operating Costs
Table 3   Soil and Water Conservation Working Account:  Plant,
Equipment and Construction Materials and
Operating Costs
Table 4   Tree Planting, Fruit Trees, Wells and Aerial Photo-
graphy Grain Store, Costs






ANNEX 9
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Development
A.   Background
1.        The Project area falls within a climatic zone that allows for a
35-40" rainfall distributed over 5 - 6 months, followed by a 6 - 7 month
dry season that is rendered even harsher by the harmattan that brings very
dry dusty air from the Sahara. This cycle results in high water runoff,
particularly during the early part of the rains; the problems are further
compounded by the fairly dense human and livestock populations, resulting in
serious sheet and gully erosion. Stream flow is erratic, and except for
the major rivers most streams dry up for 4 - 5 months. All these problems
are accentuated in the eastern half of the Region.
2.        Prior to the 1960s, soil and water conservation programs had been
established by MA. In all some 220 dams have been constructed with capa-
3
cities varying between 50 - 400,000 m . The majority (60%) are in disrepair
due to underdesign of spillways and lack of maintenance, but many could be
repaired. In association with water conservation, efforts were made to
conserve catchments through tree planting and enforcement of grazing control.
Most of the past progress has been lost through the absence of maintenance and
an expanding population that now cultivates and grazes in areas that in theory
should be protected.
3.        The provision of water for humans and livestock is critical to any
long term development plan for the Region. The Canadian Government, through
CIDA, has initiated a project throughout the Upper Region to provide for
about 1,200 village hand-pumped wells. These are adequate for humans but
not for livestock.
B.   Projcct Proposals
4.        The Project would establish, under the Field Operations Department,
a Land Development Division which would be responsible for land planning,
soil and water conservation, and the operation of contingent plant and
equipment. It would also have responsibility for village wells and farm
storage.
5.        The Land Development Division would:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
repair and improve about 100 existing dams;
construct about 120 small earth dams to be located
in strategic areas for the provision of livestock
watering points, dry season gardening, fish ponds
and general water conservation:
provide adequate conservation works to conserve the
catchment areas of existing and new dams including
the protection of associated irrigation works;
rehabilitate, where possible, the soil conservation
works within the former land planning areas of the
Region; and
with the other sections of the Field Operations Depart-
ment develop suitable agricultural systems to complement
the physical soil and water conservation works described
above.
6.        The organization required to operate the Land Development Division
is detailed at Annex 3 and would comprise a planning component and a number
of functional field units, including a special Soil and Water Conservation
Working Account (SWCA) that would operate on a semi-commercial basis and
would be responsible for construction.
C. Soil Conservation
7.        Conservation of Dam Catchment Areas.  The average area would be
about 5 km (2 sq miles) and would require conservation works to reduce
runoff, thereby protecting the dam against excessive flood waters and
siltation. It is proposed that the conservation of any given catchment
area be undertaken in two stages:
(a) In the first year, natural or artificial waterways would
be located approximately 1,000 m apart. Each waterway
would be grassed (using self-help village labor). Master
ridges, 1 m wide and about 30 m apart, would be marked
on the contour with a tractor-mounted disc plow, as a
guide to farmers when ridging their crops. For the
average catchment 55 km of marker ridging would be required.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b) In the second year, V ditches, or cutoff drains, would be
constructed to a grade of 1:400 and would be spaced about
100 m apart. Each ditch would run for a maximum of 600 m
to a waterway. The 2ditches would have a cross sectional
area of about 0.8 m (37 cm deep and 3.6 m wide). The
ditches would be constructed by a 125 hp motor grader
(see Table 2 for output data). The average catchment would
require 20 km of ditches.
8.        To allow for the procurement of plant and equipment, actual con-
struction of the works would not commence until the second year of the Proj-
ect. It is likely that conservation works would be required to protect
120 new dams and about 200 existing dams, in all 160,000 ha. Thus 1,280 km
of natural or artificial waterways, 17,600 km of marker ridges, and 6,400 km
of V ditches would be constructed during the four-year period.
9.        Conservation of Other Areas.  Outside the dam catchment areas it
is important that ridge cultivation follow the contour. The latter is a long
term program and would be best undertaken by the extension staff using line
levels. Master ridges to be left uncultivated would be marked out 30 m apart
for slopes of between 0-5%, and every 15 m for slopes exceeding 5%. Farmers
would assist extension staff in locating the master ridges, the latter being
marked with an ox plow. The farmers would make their crop ridges between the
master ridges; the Project would encourage the practice of tie ridging to
further conserve water; the ties would be 1-2 m apart and half the height of
the ridges. This would give maximum absorption in the early light rains. In
the heavy rains the ties would break and allow the excess water to run off.
Ties would be replaced near the end of the rains to assist in improving
infiltration at that time. Other measures including the practice of not
cultivating near gulleys and water ways would be re-introduced. Tree planting
would also be part of an overall conservation policy and is described under
Section H of this annex.
10.       Conservation methods as described in para 10 would be extended
to the flat valley bottoms most favored for rice production. The main
purpose would be to retain water, and where appropriate simple water con-
trol measures could be undertaken. Thus extension staff would locate
master ridges on the level contour, 20-30 m apart, that would be developed
by the farmers into water retaining bunds. In this way it should be possi-
ble to improve water retention, which should allow continued plant growth
after the end of the wet season. Further sophistication in design, to
include concrete water control structures, etc., is not envisaged under
the Project.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
D.   Water Conservation
11.       The Project would continue the past program of constructing small
earth dams in order to spread the availability of dry seasop livestock
watering points; provide for small dry season irrigated gardens; and
provide for a general improvement in downstream water flow. The Project
would also rehabilitate some of the existing dams.
12.       Hydrological data are generally poor but sufficient for small
dam development purposes. Annual rainfall in the area averages from
700-1,200 mm, and a runoff yield varying from 0.080-0.150 mn hm 2can be
expected. Evaporation from the natural water surface is very high, being
about 300 mm per month in the dry season, or about 1,500-1,800 mm per
annum.
13.       New Dam Construction.  A careful analysis of topography,
availability of local construction materials and hydrology indicate that
3
a network of small dams with reservoirs of about 120,000 m capacity should
be built.  Each would have a catchment of about 5 km  in area.  The dams
would be equipped with outlets to provide, if necessary, a gravitational
water distribution system for small irrigated gardens. The wall and spill-
way of each dam would be fenced and if a road passes over the dam, cattle
grids would be provided at either end.
14.       A typical earth dam for the Region would have specifications as
detailed below:
(i) Features of average dam:
-   total maximum height                7.00 m
-   free board                          1.50 m
-   depth at spillway level*            5.50 m
-   average wall length               400.00 m
-   total capacity                                      120,000 m3
-   dead storage or sediment space                       20,000 m3
-   useful storage capacity                              100,000 m3
-   spillway overflow with concrete sills with riprap in between
(it may be necessary to peg down the riprap with gabion wires
in special cases);



ANNEX 9
Page 5
-   dam - earth fill with clay core, having a 4 m top
width and 1/2 and 1/3 side slopes with riprap on
the upstream face, containing about 15,000 m3 of
fill (for 400 m crest length);
-   foundation - treated to impervious zone; core would be
installed to an impervious foundation;
-   two outlet pipes of 15 cm in diameter laid in concrete
with at least three concrete flanges, and equipped
with downstream gate valves.
(ii)  Useful life of dam:  20 years; allowance made for 20,000 m3
of sediment.
15.       Repairs and Rehabilitation for Existing Dams.  According to the
Annual Report of the Ministry of Agriculture (1968), 219 dams have been
built in the Upper Region. District distribution and estimated storage
capacity are given below:
District Distribution           No.    Storage Capacity ('000 m )       No.
Bolgatanga                      41                0 -  50               17
Bawku                           67               50 - 100               39
Navrongo/Sandema                61              100 - 150               19
Wiaga                           31              150 - 200               18
Wa                              19              200 - 400               26
over 400                 7
not specified            93
TOTAL               219                                      219
3
Average storage capacity per dam would be 70-80,000 m , with a catchment
2
area ranging from 0.5 to 7 km
16.       Absence of a toe drain, and the practice of planting trees on
or at the top of the wall, cause minor leakage, while insufficient
impermeable material in the core of the wall accounts for significant
water losses. Silting occurs in cropped catchment areas, whereas in
reforested catchment areas this has been prevented. Fifty percent of
the dams need repair, the damage being due mostly to cattle movements
on the dam and insufficient maintenance. Ten percent of dams have been



ANNEX 9
Page 6
washed out completely and cannot be repaired. Most of the dams have natural
spillways, while some have no spillway at all (dugout). Only 20% of them have
cut spillways protected by concrete of which half need repairing. Although
some dams have been fenced, very little remains. Fencing the dam wall is
necessary.
The following rehabilitation works would be undertaken:
-    reshaping and refilling, for 50% of dams, by replacing
upper 60 cm with fresh material and adding riprap on the
upstream side;
-    repairing leakages on bigger dams by providing impermeable
material on the upstream embarkment and in the immediate up-
stream bottom of the lake;
-    rehabilitating spillways by repairing the concrete sills
and fortifying natural spillways;
-    inserting outlets for irrigation on those dams with
sufficient water by constructing a small concrete inlet
chamber with a 15 cm pipe entrenched in the dike;
-    fencing the dam and installing cattle grids on both
sides if there is a road on its crest.
E. Irrigation
17.        Most of the dams have a potential surplus of water that could be
used for small scale irrigation schemes. It is conservatively estimated
that a minimum of 750 ha of land could be irrigated. Thus each new dam
to be constructed would be carefully located as to storage potential
and irrigable land that it might command. Two 150 mm outlet pipes,
one for each side of the dam, would supply unlined irrigation canals
(unlikely to exceed 500 m each). Between the parallel canals a simple
conservation and land leveling scheme would be developed by participating
farmers, allowing for drainage down a medial line. The area would be
fenced (about one km per dam). Details of the crop production aspects
are at Annex 2.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
F. Fish Ponds
18.       Three fish pond complexes would be developed on a pilot basis in an
attempt to quantify more accurately their economic and financial potential.
Each complex would comprise 20 half-hectare ponds which would be located below
suitable dams.  Construction would involve moving some 10,000 m  of earth and
would be undertaken by the SWCA. No additional construction funds are required
since the excess capacity built into SWCA would suffice. The fish ponds would
be used for breeding carp and tilapia fingerlings to stock the Region's dams,
and for practical demonstrations of fish farming methods. There is a ready
market within the Region for the harvested fish. Project Management Unit staff
would be available to operate the ponds, and a specialist fish culturist would
be employed to determine more accurately the parameters of fish farm management.
G. Maintenance of Works
19.       Dam construction and associated small scale irrigation works would
be undertaken only after an association of potential users had been formed.
The association would be responsible for:
-    protection of soil conservation works;
-    maintenance of dams, intake structure and irrigation
facilities; and
-    allocation of land and responsibilities for water
distribution.
20.       The association in most cases would be the same as the farmers
association formed for each service center as described in Chapter VI of the
report. It should be made quite clear that there is no legal recourse
or penalties that can be applied for nonmaintenance of works. Maintenance
will occur only as a result of the farming community perceiving the benefits,
particularly those relating to income increases. In the past, in Ghana
and elsewhere, neglect and disrepair of water and conservation works have
nearly always occurred where production benefits were absent.
H. Tree Planting
21.       Afforestation by the Forestry Department was started in 1949 in the
Dedora Tankera Land Planning Area. Species grown throughout the Upper Region
included: Tectona grandis (teak), Khaya senegalensis (mahogony), Azadirachta
indica (Neem), M. tragyna inermis and Anogeissus lerochapus.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
22.       In recent years the Forestry Department has restricted its
activities to replanting programs in the forest areas in the Upper
Region. Its staff, consisting of one Forestry Officer and 12 TOs (three
in Lawra, five in Navrongo, and four in Bawku district), operate some
tree nurseries below dams. The slow growing teak is preferred as it
resists bush fires. Additional funds have been earmarked for village
tree programs but no program has yet materialized.
23.       The Project would support a continued tree planting program
consisting mainly of protecting catchment areas and developing small
village woodlots.
24.       The most suitable trees available are the fast growing Gmelina
and Acacia species, both resistant to drought. Eucalyptus, although
needing protection from animals, would be a valuable supplier of wood.
Final recommendations should be made in cooperation with the Forest
Research Institute at Kumasi. Farmers, who would pay for the seedlings,
would be advised in land preparation, hole digging and planting of one-
year-old trees supplied from nurseries in polythylene pots. Fire traces,
6 m wide, would be cleared and maintained around plantations. It is
proposed that two nurseries per district would be developed. See costs
at Table 4.
25.       Fruit trees would be grown for dietary improvement and for sale
at local markets. No processing is foreseen. The climate and soils are
suitable for growing a number of trees. The success of mango and
citrus introduction by agricultural stations and missions has shown there
is a high demand by the local population. At Wiaga station more than
1,000 grafted mango and orange trees were sold for 0O.80 each; similar
success was achieved in Lawra.
26.       Among the trees to be considered mango would be the simplest
to introduce as it is grown easily with initial watering of the plant
and protection from animals by a mud wall or thorns. Sweet oranges
and guavas, which have proved to grow well once sufficient water is
available, are further possibilities. Cashew nuts are untried in
the Upper Region but grow well in the Bole area of the Northern Region.
27.       The Project would promote fruit tree growing around the com-
pounds and in those areas with sufficient water. As a first step nur-
series would be established for the supply of rootstock and grafted
trees. Rather than creating new Government stations, it should be
tried - as in Upper Volta - to train progressive local farmers in
nursery establishment and grafting so as to put improved plant produc-
tion and supply on a commercial basis. In the early stages some Gov-
ernment experimentation and training would be required. Estimated costs
are at Table 4.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
28.       The fruit tree program would be operated by a horticulturist within
the Project's Forestry Division whose responsibility would be to:
-    establish two central nurseries per district for variety
selection and initial plant supply, and
-    advise farmers associations in planting and maintenance.
Initially the Project would rely on imports of grafted trees from Upper Volta
that would be sold for cash to farmers, prior to Project stock becoming
available.
I. Research
29.       The Land Development Department would work closely with a proposed
USAID-financed conservation research unit that is to be established in the
Tamne Valley of Bawku District. The proposed research unit would determine
more closely the causes of soil erosion and would quantify the rate of erosion,
runoff factors, etc. It would also research methods of erosion control.
J. Aerial Photography
3o.       Present coverage for the Upper Region as a whole comprises 1961/
1965 photography flown at 1:30,000 scale, and some selected areas at 1:10,000
scale flown in 1949 and 1968. The Project would require new photography; and
it is proposed that 1:20,000 black and white, and 1:40,000 infrared color
(cibrachrome film) would be flown at the same time using a 3" and 6" lens
respectively. The 1:20,000 would have some distortion at the edges of the
photographs and would be used for the siting of dams, conservation works,
and general layouts. They would not be used for detailed mapping. The
1:40,000 infrared color would be distortion free and could be used for de-
tailed mapping. However, under the Project it would be used for quantify-
ing essential physical data including vegetation, crop location, soils,
hydrology, cultural features, etc., which are vital to effective crop in-
ventory and land use planning. Because infrared color has good resolution and
haze penetration capability, shows moisture well by tone differences, and
shows the infrared reflection of live vegetation in magenta color lines
that record the chlorophyl content of viable vegetation, it is possible,
by combined accurate ground truthing and computer scanning, to quantify
and record on transparent laydowns selected physical data. Initially, some
six separations of data would be analyzed, including area under cultivation,
cereal (sorghum), groundnuts, rice, fallowland, wetness and compound locality.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Further separations would be possible if required. The time of flying
is critical and should be undertaken from mid-September to mid-October,
weather permitting, when optimum differentiation between crops would be
possible. The flying, photography and computer analysis would be con-
tracted to an international company. Costs are at Table 4.
K. Grain Storage
31.       The Project would assist farmers in improving onfarm grain
stores. The Garu Agricultural Station of the Christian Service Committee
(CSC) has developed a simple type of improved farm storage that can be
constructed, under guidance, by the villagers themselves at a very low
material cost. The same type is also being promoted by GGADP.
32.       The store consists of a cylindric container 3 m high built from
mud bricks with concrete reinforcement and plastering inside and outside.
Two sizes are presently built: (a) for 900 to 1,000 kg (10 bags) with an
inside diameter of 0.91 m, and (b) for 1,400 to 1,500 kg (16 bags) with a
diameter of 1.12 m. The silo is built on an isolated rock foundation,
has a slanting floor with a chute and a concrete slab on the top that
allows almost airtight storage, thus reducing losses considerably. The
materials consist of the reusable wooden frames to produce the mud-
bricks and framing, plus two bags of cement for the smaller type and three
bags for the larger.
33.       The Department of Social Welfare and Community Development, in
coordination with Project Technical Officers, would be responsible for
demonstrating these new stores and teaching farmers to build them. The
Project would procure the cement for sale to farmers through the Farmers
Services Company stores. The target would be to reach 10% of the farmers,
12,000, by the end of the fifth year of the Project. Costs are at
Table 4.
L. Village Wells
34.       Currently the Ghanaian Government and CIDA are installing communal
hand-pumped boreholes (up to 100 feet deep), and by end of May 1975 had con-
structed 600 out of their target of 1,200. They have also undertaken ground
water studies. The Department of Social Welfare is also engaged in providing
covered wells with fitted pumps. The wells are used for village water
supply and for small dry season vegetable gardens. Village wells promoted
by the Department of Social Welfare and Ministry of Agriculture are generally
4 to 6 m deep and have a diameter of 1.2 m. Walls are reinforced above the



ANNEX 9
Page 11
rock substrate with bricks or concrete fillings, using metal shuttering
and simple tools. The casing is extended to 0.90 m above the surface
and has a concrete apron.
35.       The Project would assist in constructing 100 improved wells
per district (total 700 wells). Construction would be undertaken on a
self-help basis by the villagers, though the Project would assist in
pumping out the wells during construction so that an adequate depth could
be reached. The Project would equip each with a wheel-operated hand pump.
The Department of Social Welfare would be responsible for implementing the
proposals. Costs are at Table 4.
M. Soil and Water Conservation Working Account (SWCA)
36.       Contractors are limited in number and are unable to construct
the rather complex soil and water conservation works. Therefore, under
the Project SWCA would be established (see para 6.06 of main report)
to implement the proposals. SWCA would be operated on commercial lines
with commercial accounting and cost structures, and, most importantly, the
authority to pay commercial rates and production bonuses to plant operators.
In the long term, SWCA would provide a heavy plant and equipment service
for the Region, and its plant, if available, could be hired out at commer-
cial rates for works not included under the Project.
37.       SWCA would take over the workshops currently operated by the
Ministry of Agriculture's Mechanization and Irrigation Divisions at
Zwarungu (near Bolgatanga). The workshops would be suitably staffed and
equipped and would service SWCA and URPMU plant and vehicles. It would
also service at full cost vehicles belonging to the Farmers Services
Company and to the Irrigation Department. Full details of plant and
equipment costs are included in Tables 1-3.
December 3, 1975



GHANA
UPPER RBGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil and Water Conservation : Equipment Output Rates
--------Hours----------
Dimension         Unit            Total Units          Output Rate          Grader       Dozer      Towed Scraper
Clearing Land for Dam Reservoirs v                    15 ha         15 ha/dam           1,800 ha              1.0 ha/hr           -           1,800           -
Clearing Land for Diversion Ditches                    6 m          12 ha/dam           1,440 ha              1.0 ha/hr           -           1,440
Removing Topsoil - Dam Wall Site                     0.8 ha        800 m3/dam site    96,ooo m3              60 m3/hr             -           1,600           -
Dam Construction 2/                                 see text    15,000 m3/dam       1,800,000 m3             60 m3/hr             -         40,000        30,000
Rehabilitating Rxisting Dams                        see text            -                 -                  60 m3/hr             -          13,000       10,000
Cutting and Shaping Diversion                       x section
Ditches by Motorgrader 3/                            0.8 m2        800 m3/k0n       5,120,000 m3            200 m3/hr           25,600          -            -
Cutting retaining waIls for
artificial water ways                                -           400 m3/ko          172,000 m3            120 m3/hr             -          1,430
Total hours                                               -                          -                                     25,600      59,270        40,000
Hours per year (four years)                                                       -                                             6,400      14,800        10,000
No. of units required
(1,500 hours/unit/annum) hrs                      -                                                                              4          lo             7
l/ Construction commences in second year of Project at rate of 40 per year i.e., 120 in Project period.
2/ Includes 30% extra dozer time for pushing.
3/ Includes 120 catchment areas for new dams and 200 for existing dams.
September 15, 1975



GHANA
UppFR REGI02N AGRICITLTURAL DEVELO?MEET PROJECT
Soil and Water Conservation Working Account_ Unit Plant OPerating Costs
Capital Costs Cedis '000                                    Operating Costs per Xour Cedis
CIF      Tr.nsport to    Total Delivered                       Lube &n                     Cutting       Repairs &
Accra      Bolgatanga        Price                  Fuel        Filters         Tyres         Edges        Spares         Operator          Total
Tractor 180 Hp dozer/ripper                110          1.5             111.5                 7.0            i.4            -            1.5          13.4             6.0             29.3
Tractor 140 .-p dozer/ripper                88          1.3              89.3                 4.7            1.0             -           1.0          10.7             6.0             23.4
Motorgrader 125 Hp                          62          1.3              63.3                 4.6            1.0            2.0           -             7.6            6.0             21.2
Towed Scraper 12 CY                         48          1.3              49.3                  -              -              -           1.5            5.9             -               7.4
Agricultural Tractor 60 Hp                  11.6        0.2              11.8                 2.0            0.4           0.8            -            1.4             2.0              6.6
Low Loader Tractor mad Trailer             117.3        1.3             118.6                 4.5            1.0            2.0           -            14.2            3.0             2h.7
Water Bowser                                25.0        0.3              25.3                  2.5           0.5            1.0           -             3.1            3.0             10.1
Lubrication and Fael Units                  32.0        0.3              32.3                  2.5           0.5           1.0            -             3.9            3.0             10.9
Concrete Mixer 14/10                         1.2        0.1               1,3                 0.5            0.1             -            -             0.1              -              0.7
Water Pusmps                                 2.0        0.1               2.1                  0.5           0.1             -            -             0.3              -              0.9
Generator 2.5 EVA                            1.5        0.1               1.6                  0.5           0.1             -            -             0.1              -              0.7
Caravan                                      8.0        0.5               8.5                   -             -                            -             -               -
Crew Vehicle 4 WD                            7.9        0.1               8.0                  2.0           0.14           0.6           -             1.0            1.0              5.0
Pick-up Trucks                               5.3        0.1               5.4                 1.5            0.3           0-5            -             o.6            1.0              3.9
Lorry 7 ton                                 11.3        0.2              11.5                  2.5           0.5            1.0           -             1.1             1.5             6.9
Mobile Workshop                             16.0        0.2              16.2                  2.5           0.5            1.0           -             2.0             2.0             8.0
Motorcycles                                                               0.9                  0.8            -             0.1           -             0.2              -              1.1
Note: Effective hours 1,500 per anmum for 5 years,i.e.,depreciation over 7,500 hours.                                                                                                               o
September 15, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil and Water Conservation Working Account
Plant. Equimsent and Construction MaterIals and o              erating Costa 1/
No.
Unit          of                                                                                                       Foreign Exchange   Local
Unit     Cost        Units            Year 1           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5    Total    2              Coat    Cost
Plant and Enuinment
Tractor 180 HP dozer/ripper                         no.      111.5            2   (2)      223.0                 -                -                 -                -    223.0       95         211.8    11.2
Tractor 140 HP dozer/ripper                         no.       89.3            8   (8)      714.4                 -                -                 _                -    714.4       95         678.7    35.7
Motorgrader 125 HP                                  no.      63.3             4   (4)      253.2                 -                -                                  -    253.2       95         240.5    12.7
Towed acrapers 12 cy                                no.      49.3             7   (7)      345.1                 -                -                 -                      345.1      95         327.8    17.3
Agricultural Tractors                               no.       11.8            4   (2)       23.6   (2)       23.6                          -                         -      47.2      95          44.8      2.4
Low loader tracD r and trailers                     no.     118.6             1   (1)      118.6                 -                -                 -                -    118.6       95         112.7      5.9
Water bowser                                        no.       25.3            2   (1)       25.3   (1)        25.3                -                 -                -      50.6      95          48.1      2.5
Lubrication and Fuel units                          no.      32.3             2   (1)       32.3   (1)       32.3                 -                 -                -      64.6      95          61.4      3.2
Concerete mixers                                    no.        1.3            6   (3)        3.9   (3)        3.9                 -                 -                -       7.8      95           7.4      0.4
Water pumps                                         no.        2.1            4   (2)        4.2   (2)        4.2                 -                 -                -       8.4      95           8.0      0.4
Generator 2.5 kva                                   no.        1.6            4   (2)        3.2   (2)         3.2                -                 -                -       6.4      95           6.1      0.3
Caravan                                             no.        8.5            6   (3)       25.5   (3)       25.5                 -                 -                -      51.0      95          48.4      2.6
Crew vehicle 4wd                                    no.        8.0            3   (3)       24.0                 -                -                 -                -      24.0    .95           22.8      1.2
Pick up trucks                                      no.        5.4            3   (3)       16.2                 -                -                 -                -      16.2      95          15.4      0.8
Lorry 7 tons                                        no.       11.5            2   (1)       11.5   (1)        11.5                -                 -                -      23.0      95          21.8      1.2
Mobile workshop                                     no.       16.2            2   (1)       16.2   (1)        16.2                -                 -                -      32.4      95          30.8      1.6
Survey instruments                                  set       5.0             3   (2)       10.0   (1)        5.0                                   -                -      15.0      90          13.5      1.5
Workshop tools and equipment                        set       50.0            1   (1)       50.0                 -                                  -                -      50.0      90          45.0      5.0
Subtotal                                                                       1,900.2             150.7                 -                -                 -  2,050.9      95       1,945.0   105.9
Constraction. Materials
Concrete                                        per dam        3.0          220                 -  (55)      165.0  (55)      165.0  (55)       165.0  (55)      165.0    660.0       60         396.0   264.0
Fencing                                         per km         0.4          600                - (150)       60.0 (150)        60.0 (150)        60.0 (150)       60.0    240.0       60         144.0    96.0
Pipes and fittings                              per dam        1.0          220                -  (55)        55.0  (55)       55.0  (55)        55.0  (55)       55.0    220.0       85         187.0    33.0
Labor                                        '000 manday       1.5           30                - (7.5)       11.3 (7.5)        11.3 (7.5)        11.3 (7.5)       11.3      45.2       -            -      45.2
Subtotal                                                                              -            291.3            291.3             291.3            291.3  1,165.2       62         727.0   438.2
Planting and Eouirment Operatint Costs
Tractor 180 BP dozer/ripper                     hrs '000    29.3             12                 -   (3)       87.9   (3)       87.9   (3)        87.9   (3)       87.9    351.6       50         175.8   175.8
Tractor 140 HP dozer/ripper                     hra '000    23.4             48                 -  (12)      280.8  (12)      280.8  (12)       280.8  (12)      280.8  1,123.2       50         561.6   561.6
Motor grader 125 HP                             hra '000    21.2             24                 -   (6)      127.2   (6)      127.2   (6)       127.2   (6)      127.2    508.8       50         254.4   254.4
Towed scraper                                   hrs '000       7.4           40                 -  (10)       74.0  (10)       74.0  (10)        74.0  (10)       74.0    296.0       50         148.0   148.0
Low loader                                      hra '000    24.7              6                 - (1.5)       37.1 (1.5)       37.1 (1.5)        37.1 (1.5)       37.1    148.4       50          74.2    74.2
Agricultural tractor                            hra '000       6.6           21                 -   (3)       19.8   (6)       39.6   (6)        39.6   (6)       39.6    138.6       50          69.3    69.3
Water bower                                     hrs '000    10.1             10.5               - (1.5)       15.2   (3)       30.3   (3)        30.3   (3)       30.3    106.1       50          53.1    53.0
Lubrication units                               hra '000    10.9             10.5               - (1.5)       16.4   (3)       16.4   (3)        16.4   (3)       16.4      65.6      50          32.8    32.8
4wd crew vehicles                               hra '000       5.0           18.0               - (4.5)       22.5 (4.5)       22.5 (4.5)        22.5 (4.5)       22.5      90.0      60          54.0    36.0
Pick up trucks                                  hrs '000       3.9           18.0              - (4.5)        17.6 (4.5)       17.6 (4.5)        17.6 (4.5)       17.6      70.4      60          42.2    28.2
Lorries 7 ton                                   hrs '000       6.9           10.5               - (1.5)       10.4   (3)       20.7   (3)        20.7   (3)       20.7      72.5      60          43.5    29.0
Small equipment                                                                                                2.5              5.0               5.0              5.0      17.5      50           8.8      8.7
Mobile workshop                                 hra '000       8.0           10.5               - (1.5)       12.0   (3)       24.0   (3)        24.0   (3)       24.0      84.0      50          42.0    42.0
Subtotal                                                                                           723.4            783.1             783.1            783.1  3,072.7       51       1,559.7 1,513.0
Total SWCA                                                                                1,900.2          1,165.4           1,074.4          1,074.4           1,074.4  6,288.8       67       4,231.7 2,057.1
/ Salaried staff costs shown at Annex 10 Table I all other employees costed into equipment operating costs where applicable.
September 15, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tree Planting, Fruit Treest Wells and Aerial Photography  Grain Store. Costs
(i '000)
Foreign
Unit     No.                                                                                  Exchange       Local
Unit     Cost   Units        Year 1        Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Year 5      Total      %     Cost    Cost
Tree Planting and Fruit Trees
Establishment of 14 Nurseries ./
Stores                           no.       2.0       14   (2)    4.0    (6)   12.0   (6)  12.0             -            -       28.0    20       5.6     22.4
Equipment                        Sets      0.1       14   (2)    0.2    (6)    0.6    (6)   0.6            -            -        1 .4    50      0.7       0.7
Gmelina Seedlings  2/             '000     0.1    1,040  (40)    4.0  (160)   16.0  (280)  28.0  (280) 28.0  (280) 28.0    28.0    10            2.8      25.2
Fruit Trees 2/                   '000      1.0      104   (4)    4.0  (16)   16.0  (28)  28.0  (28) 28.0   (28) 28.0    28.0    10               2.8      25.2
Sub-Total                                                      12.2           44.6          68.6        56.0         56.o
Net Incremental Cost                                           12.2           32.4          34.0          -           -       78.6   11        8.7      69.9
Well Construction
Concrete and Reinforcing        per well   0.10        700           -   (100)   10.0  (200)  20.0  (200) 20.0  (200) 20.0    70.0    50          35.0      35.0
Pumps and Riser Pipe               no.       0.25      700           -   (100)   25.0  (200)  50.0  (200) 50.0  (200) 50.0   175.0    85    148.8           26.2
Sub-Total                                                        -            35.0          70.0         70.0        70.0   245.0    75    183.8        61.2
Grain Storage
Cement  3/                      '000 bags   5.0        36   (2)    10.0   (4)   20.0  (10)  50.0   (10) 50.0   (10) 50.0    180.0   -              -         -
Aerial PhotograDhy and Analysis
Black and White 1:20,000 +            2
Infra red color at 1:40,000       km      Mll.0   28,000          308.0           -             -            -            -      308.0   95    297.6       15.4
Computer Analysis                  km2   )t 7.3   28,000           204.4           -            -                          -      204.4  100    204.4        -
Sub-Total                                                     512.4           -             -            _            _      512.4   97    497.0       15.4
TOTAL                                                            534.6          87.4         104.0         70.0         70.0    836.0   82    689.5    146.5
L/ Eccluding staff and associated costs.
2/ 2 per district; total shown at incremental cost.
2/ To be sold for cash to farmers; total shown at incremental cost.
December 16, 197':






ANNEX 10
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring (PEMD)
Contents                                            Page No.
Evaluation  ..... ...... ...... **......... * .................  1
Monitoring ........................................ e......    2
Planning   ... .....................     ..........    3
Appendix 1 -  Economic Development of Areas Freed from
Onchocerciasis in the Upper and Northern
Regions






ANNEX 10
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring (PEMD)
Evaluation
1.        The development proposals contained in this report are expected to
have a far-reaching effect on the Upper Region farmers and on the economy of
the nation as a whole; there is, therefore, a high demand for an effective
evaluation system to be implemented both as an aid to Project management and
as a means of permitting effective supervision and impartial assessment of
Project performance. The results of a steady, ongoing evaluation would also
meet the requirements of planners in the preparation of new development in-
vestments.
2.        Project evaluation would center around the following objectives:
(a) establishment of a baseline data survey that would enable
further measurements to be made to determine changing patterns
of farming, farmer response to Project action, and incremental
farmer incomes due to Project investments;
(b) evaluation of Project services including extension, nutrition,
farm input distribution, broadcasting and education programs;
this evaluation would include proposals for improvements that
would be made to broaden the impact of Project actions;
(c) a broader evaluation to determine the secondary impact of
Project actions on regional trade, markets, etc. Such infor-
mation could lead to computation of factors reflecting multi-
plier effects of the Project.
3.        To collect these data, a substantial data collection system would
be established comprising mobile teams of enumerators stationed at each
district. These enumerators would be supplemented by the development of an
overall Project cost/data retrieval system to be established at the outset
of the Project and incorporated in all Project recording processes. Standard
methodology would be used in sample analysis, and particular attention would
be paid to modified systems being developed in Bank-financed projects in
Nigeria. All this information would be held in a central Project data bank
and would be retrievable for use in quarterly and annual reporting, work
planning, etc. The Project would, where possible, use extension staff and
local leaders in a constant evaluation of socio-economic objectives.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        For more detailed and independent analysis of collected data, and
for certain specialized undertakings, PEMD would contract with the Institute
of Statistical, Social and Economic Research (ISSER), Lagos.
Monitoring
5.        PEMD would undertake a constant monitoring of market and price
trends for regional crops. The prime objective would be to speedily and
accurately collect market information, to provide price information and market
opportunities to Project farmers, as well as to assist farmers in marketing
methods. To undertake this work, a special facility--market information
services--would be set up under PEMD. For details see Annex 1, para 10.
Planning
6.        The information collected by the evaluation work will not only
benefit the Project and the nation in evaluating the effectiveness of Project
action, but it will also provide accurate information that can be used in
future planning. In particular, the Project would provide for the planning of
those areas freed of onchocerciasis in the Upper and Northern Regions, details
of which can be found in Appendix I of this Annex.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 1
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Development of Areas Freed from Onchocerciasis in
the Upper and Northern Regions
1.        An FAO/IBRD report 1/ published in October 1975 outlined proposals
for planning economic development in five West African countries in the Volta
River Basin area afflicted by onchocerciasis, or riverblindness. The proposed
planning would cover those areas to be cleared of the black fly Similium
damnosum under the current eradication scheme. In Ghana the onchocerciasis
areas fall within the Upper and Northern Regions, which together total
98,000 km .
2.        The basic planning methodology evolved at the interagency meeting
in December 1974 for the oncho areas has been accepted by the five partici-
pating countries, and is designed to lead to the preparation of:
(a) an inventory of natural resources (the Data Bank);
(b) a broad Ten-Year Development Plan identifying priority zones
of the oncho areas (the Ten-Year Development Plan); and
(c) a number of specific investment projects within the frame of
the Development Plan (project preparation).
3.        The execution of the above would have the long-range objectives of:
(a) improving living standards for those already living in or near
oncho areas, and providing opportunities for settlement in the
relatively fertile oncho areas;
(b) achieving such settlement without the uncontrolled exploitation
and lack of conservation that have characterized most human
settlement in West Africa; and
(c) increasing the national outputs of food, livestock, and
industrial and export crops.
1/   Report No. WS/H3291, Economic Development of Areas Freed from
Onchocerciasis in Dahomey, Ghana, Mali, Togo and Upper Volta.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        The FAO/IBRD proposals recommended that the planning should be
undertaken mainly by foreign consulting firms; however, the Ghanaians have
specifically requested a high degree of Ghanaian involvement in the planning
process. In order to accommodate the Government's views and to ensure ade-
quate financing, and because the Upper Region is more affected by onchocer-
ciasis than are other areas of Ghana, and implementation of the Upper Region
Agricultural Development Project coincides with the onchocerciasis planning
period, it is proposed that the Project's Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring
Department (PEMD) be responsible for undertaking direct data collection
and planning for the Upper and Northern Regions. Thus a special Onchocer-
ciasis Survey Unit would be established within PEMD. This would have the
advantage of making use of Project specialist staff and equipment; of making
possible the preparation of development plans in association with an ongoing
and related development Project; and of fully integrating Ghanaian staff into
the planning process. The Unit would operate for at least three years and,
apart from its own staff, would draw on other Project staff, non-Project
Government staff (particularly Ministry of Agriculture planners), and con-
sultants including university staff and specialized personnel recruited from
within and outside Ghana. The Ministry of Economic Planning would have
ultimate responsibility for clearing the Ten-Year Development Plan and sub-
sequent related feasibility studies; in this respect it would be important
that the Oncho Unit's planners ensured that development proposals formed
part of the overall national development plan.
Details of Execution
5.        Completion of Data Bank.  Much information already exists for both
Regions; numerous surveys have been undertaken. The Oncho Survey Unit would
complete the Data Bank for each Region, including determination of present
land use; land suitability classification; climate, surface and ground water
resources and potentials; socio-economic data on population, land tenure,
and social organization; and key data relating to agriculture, livestock,
forest and fishery activities.
6.        For the Region concerned, a land suitability survey with mapping
was completed by FAO in 1967. However, an updating of existing land use is
required; this would be undertaken in each area. In the Upper Region, the
analysis would form a part of the integrated evaluation of the Project, making
use of LANDSAT imagery and 1:40,000 infrared color photography. In the North-
ern Region, LANDSAT imagery only would be used. In both cases the Project
would let a contract to a foreign company with the necessary skills and
electronic scanning analysis devices.
7.        A socio-economic study would be undertaken to determine the current
extent of social and economic activity in both Regions. The appraisal report
for the Upper Region would form the basis for that Region's study, to be
updated and expanded where necessary. The study for the Northern Region
would require full documentation. The Oncho Survey Unit would acquire con-
sultant staff on a direct-hire basis for this purpose.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 3
8.        It is expected that the Data Bank would be completed within one
year of inception and that the bulk of the data would be available within
six months. Separate summaries would be produced for each Region, cross-
referenced to filed and recorded information.
Ten-Year Development Plan
9.        After six months of data collection, a Development Plan would be
prepared using information from the Data Bank. The head of the Planning,
Evaluation and Monitoring Department, through the Oncho Survey Unit, would
be responsible for its preparation, and would, if necessary, be able to call
on consultants on a short term basis. The Plan would:
(a)  identify, in detail, zones and projects suitable for develop-
ment over the next decade; and
(b) rank the zones and projects identified on the basis of
priorities; that is, according to cost/benefit, impact,
replicability, spread effects, savings/earnings of foreign
exchange, and social benefits.
10.       It should be noted that the Upper Region Agricultural Development
Project already forms a basis for a Ten-Year Development Plan for that
Region; any new plans would investigate and include specific projects in
areas not covered by the Project, such as settlement schemes related to
specific valleys. For the Northern Region, the Development Plan would need
to cover both oncho areas and areas not infested. In formulating the Plan,
due consideration should be given to:
-    maximizing employment opportunities;
-    ensuring equitable income distribution;
-    reducing disparities of income/employment opportunities
between different regions and groups;
-    providing sound land tenure arrangements;
-    simple and effective soil and water conservation methods;
-    increasing production and quality of food, industrial and
export commodities;
-    reducing imports;
-    improving health, nutrition, and educational standards;
-    alternative project proposals maximizing returns with the
lowest cost incentives;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 4
-    using the maximum amount of local expertise; and
-    minimizing potential conflicts between groups/individuals as
a result of settlement/repopulation.
11.       The Plan, supported by charts, graphs, maps and such other docu-
mentary references, would take into account any existing Government plans for
the oncho areas and, where necessary, incorporate (with or without modifica-
tion) the existing plans into the Plan, or recommend their deletion or re-
classification in the list of development priorities.
12.       To assist the Oncho Survey Unit in preparing the Plan, the Ministries
of Agriculture and Economic Planning would provide staff, particularly exper-
ienced economists, from their own planning units in Accra. This would provide
a two-way service in that central Government could be directly involved in the
Plan preparation and would provide expertise already existing in the country,
and the Oncho Survey Unit would provide a much needed field for training in
practical planning. The Plan would be completed by the end of the second
year, and would then be fully discussed and cleared with the relevant Minis-
tries in Accra, particularly Agriculture and Economic Planning.
Preparation of Investment Studies
13.       In general, preparation of investment projects would not begin in
detail until after a thorough review of the Development Plan had been under-
taken by Government and after the views and assistance of potential external
financing agencies had been sought. It is expected, however, that a start
would be made to rough out some investment projects concurrent to work on the
Ten-Year Development Plan. Some of these would be prepared by the Oncho
Survey Unit, whereas others could be undertaken by other agencies, such as
German Technical Assistance in the Northern Region, CIDA, USAID, etc. In
any event, if other agencies are involved in planning, they would coordinate
their activities with the Unit.
14.       Further technical details can be found in the FAO/IBRD report
WS/H3291, dated October 1975.
15.       Costs.  Funds would be provided under the Project to meet the
incremental costs required to undertake the studies. 0737,000 has been
specifically allocated against the Oncho Survey Unit's budget. These funds
do not include aerial photography, LANDSAT or analysis for the Upper Region;
neither do they include any costs of Government staff who may be seconded
for a short period to the Unit from other agencies. A breakdown of costs
is at Annex 11.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 5
16.       Staff.  The basic staff requirements funded under the Project for
the Onchocerciasis Survey Unit are as follows:
-------------Man Years-------------
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Total
Development Planner /1           1.0        1.0        1.0       3.0
Land-Use Survey Officer          1.0          -          -       1.0
Soil Specialist                  0.5          -          -      0.5
Cartographer                     0.5          -          -       0.5
Socio-Economic Studies           1.0        1.0          -      2.0
Ten-Year Development Plan        1.0        1.0          -       2.0
5.0       3.0        1.0       9.0
/1   Head of Survey Unit.
These specialists would be supplemented where necessary with existing
Government planning staff.
January 16, 1976






ANNEX 11
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs, Financial Tables and Economic Analysis
Table 1   Staff, Salaries, Allowances
Table 2   Vehicles, Plant, Equipment, Drugs and Livestock Costs
Table 3   Building and Construction Material Costs
Table 4   Vehicle and Plant Operating Costs
Table 5   General Administrative Costs
Table 6   Summary of Incremental Farm Input Costs
Table 7   Summary of Fertilizer and Seed Cotton Subsidies
Table 8   Summary of Price Contingencies
Table 9   Summary of Project Costs
Table 10  Procurement by United Kingdom
Table 11  Financing for Technical Assistance
Table 12  Details of Project Financing
Table 13  Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Table 14  Illustrative Cash Flow for Cotton Development Board -
Ginning Component
Table 15  Agricultural Development Bank - Cash Flow Farm Loan Account
Table 16  Illustrative Cash Flow for Government
Table 17  Incremental Economic Production Costs and Benefits
Table 18  Economic Cash Flow
Table 19  Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis






ANNEX II
Page 1
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DRVtLOPlt PROJECT
Staff Salarie* Allo_nce.
(C '000)
1/                                                                                               Pordela  teobange
Gait Coat       YTr I           Year 2        Y-er 3         Y-er 4         Year S        Total Cot          Percent     Coat         Local CoSt
A.  Pre1-et iheaaent oUit
Read Offie AdinietralOtil
Project eeeag r                              20 0             20.0           20.0           20.0          20.0           20.0           100,0                                        100.0
Chif of Fi.ld Operationa                     55.0/9.0         55.0           55.0           55.0           9.0            9.0           183.0            90         165.0             18.0
Chiaf Accoonte & Proourent (TA)              50.0/9.0         50.0           50.0           50.0          5010            9.0           209.0             96        200.0              9.0
Chief Adaiatratien & Penl                   9.0              9.0            9.0           9.0            9.0            9.0            45.0              -          -               45.0
Acoenotnts Senior                              4.3             4.3            8.6           12.9           12.9          12.9            51.6              -          _               51.6
Acceuet nt  Junior                             3.1             6.2           12.4           18.6          18.6           18.6            74.4              -          -               74.4
Yecutive OfficerM                              4.0             0.0           16.0           16.0          16.0           16.0            72 0                         _               72.0
Confidntinl Scretary                          3.4              3.4            6.8           10.2          10.2           10.2            40.8              -          -               40.8
Other Jutier Staff                             1.0            07.0           23.0           28.0          28.0           28.0           129,0                         _              129.0
Sub-Total                                               172.9          205.8         219.7          173.7          132.7           904.8            52         365.0            539'8
SteEd Oneratorien:
A. ricultural Terheical Servteae Stvtelee
Senior Agrienltu-iat                           7.3             7.3            7.3            7.3            7.            7 3            36 5              -          -               36.5
Entene.on aod D erieent
S        tnier Ysc on end D v-lopnn  OffIcer  6.6              6.6            6.6            6.6           6.6            4 6            33 0              -          -               33.0
Profeedonol Offic re                          6.0             48.0           54.0           0 544.0                      54.0           264.0                                        264.0
Trohaical Offinane                             2.0            70.0          148.0          2             226.0          226.0           886.0              -                         8 009.0
Field Asetente                                 1.2            72.0          144.0          216.0         216.0          216.0           .64,0 0                                      864.0
Orrigetion laeng. ec  OffIcer TA              50.0             -             50.0           50.0          50.0            -             150.0            100        150.0 ,
Sub-Total                                               194.6          402.6         544.6          552.6          502.6         2.199.0              7        100.0          2,049.0
Cotton Dev loepAt 2'
Cotton DSvelnpaent Offieer                     7.3              7.3           7.3            7.3            7.3           7.3            36.5              -          -               36.5
cotton irsl veopnt Sopnnreer                   2.5            17.5           17.5           17.5          17.5           17.5            87.5                                         87.5
Cotton Production Aesteantt                    1.5           112.5          213.0          225.0         225.0          225.0         1,000.5              -          -            1,000.5
Sub-Tote1                                               137.3          237.8          249.8         249.8          249.8         1,124.5              -          -            1 124.5
Serm lalemn_t
Senior Sar linage nt Offic-r TA               50.0/6.6        50.0           30.0           50.0            6.4           6.6           163.2             92        150.0             13.2
Pen      - Hanagennt Offi-or                   5.0            10.0           20.0           30.0           35.0          35.0           150.0 -                        - 130.0
Sub-Tota1                                                60.0           70.0           00.0          41.6           41.6           293.2             51        150.0            143 2
Slant Ocerontica out Produce In eectiec
S enir Quarencle Offic_r                       5.0             5.0            5.0            5 0            5.0           5.0            25.0              .           .              25.0
q.uaratinn end Preduce Inepeoter               2.0             10.0          14.0           14.0           14.0          14.0            66.0              -           -              66.0
Sob-Tot-l                                                15.0           19.0           19.0          19.0           19.0            91.0              -          -               91.0
lonearch  nd Seed ftultinlieatton
Senler Seeearch Officer  (TA)                 50.0/6.0        50.0           50.0           50.0           6.0            6.0           162.0             93         150.0            1230
Pl.ant irender (l7rA c-etret)   -             50.0/6.0        50.0           50.0           50.0            6.0           6.0           162.0             93         150.0            12.0
Send VIltiplicatien Officer                    5.0             5.0            5.0            5.0            5.0           5.0            25.0              -           -              25.0
Sned Holtiplicetien 4 Rnen-rob Aeslet.         2.0             8.0           20.0           20.0           20.0          20,0            88.0              -           -              88.0
Sub-Tetol                                               113.0          125.0          125.0          37.0           37.0           437.0             69        300.0            137.0
Nultrition
Seale  NutrItion Officer                       6.0             6.             6.0            6.0            6.0           6.0            50.0              -           .              50.0
Rutrition Supnrviere                          35.0              6.0          14.0           14.0           14.0          14.0            62.0 0                        .              62.0
Sub-Total                                                12.0           20.0           20.0          20.0           20.0            92.0              -           -              92.0
Junior Clerical StOff end M.aenger               1.0            38.0           42.0           42.0          42.0           42.0           206.0              -           -             206.0
Sub-Tetal Agriculturl T.eheitol
SBrvice.                                               579.2          923.7       1,087.7          969.3          919.3         4,479.2             13        600.0          3,879.2
Land Drlopant ODiisin
Senior Land Seelepuent Officer TA             50.0/7.3        50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0           7.3           207.3             97         200.0              7.3
Land Deraleopent Offic re                      6.0            12.0           18.0           24.0          42.0           42.0           138.0              _                          138.0
Surry A.cietanta                               2.0            12.0           24.0           42.0          42.0           42.0           162.0              -           -              162.0
Senior Oiaeh-nla  Eniner                      50 .0//7.3      50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0           7.3           207.5             97         5000               7 .56
Heobniorol Mgi .eer. r  Hav  plurt  TA        50.06.6           -            50.0           5.0            50 0           6.6           156.              9          1650.   0            6
M_chanicel Thginnnr-VehicIes                   6.6              6.6           6.6            6.6            6.6           6.6             53.0             _                           53.0
Tractor thit forne                             5.0             10.0          15.0           20.0           20.0           20.0           00.0              -                           85.0
Senior Ac-coutoet                              4.3              4.3           4.3            4.3            4.3           4.3            21.5              -           -               21.5
other                                          1.0            40 .0          69.0          110.0          110.0          110.0          439.0              -           .              439.0
Sub-ToteS                                               184.9          286.9          356.9          374.9         246.1         1.449.7             38         550.0            899.7



0                                                                                                 0  0 I  0                        0    00    00   0 I                                   0    0    4  ,,         a NR       l... c o
sEl ~      ~          ~          '' ' 01 A~*                               ~       '      .         0                                                           O*'  O'''   0  0 0 0                                       . I'' '   0
0000000oo                     0000 n    s          oo o=  ooo                    000    0 O000 O                                    0000    0                   00O00 O                         000   Ar       OOOOC l Xoo-         
0-         00 R              000 v N0                      0    0 N  R0 0  0N, 0                                            0        00 0 0            0        000000000 S             - N000_O V0va<                      NGR_.     
-     w 0 0             =        000          0      = 0       0    0        _0        00              w      0i=|NWa0@<QOabNN     tGSVeIIBIz4 00 0 0   00   0    W0000a W00                0=0V  o
G ,                     1     0    o            G                O     0         O              G       0       0       0             O                         0 0    0       -                          0    W   0 0 0   OOOOOOe4O   {   OOO<OOeO
~~~~0                           00    0         0000 0-                 000     00  0a> <           00 0  0NN          _       0    00  0ds G                                      00      0    0    0  0Iz e      000aD 8  _
a    ~             00 0           *0        00         0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0 A  A N000,                                           000   040   a0N00 , .       A A _      o      N  
U ~     ~      ~       0       00               0.0          0        00_0                            0 0                      4 00                                                  0    0    0    0                0
| ~        ~         0        00 _            000 e G0                      0    0         000o0                           0       0 e e    G4                                           0    4    0 e0AA l | sooAoee A =ooo |o =. | =O                    :|N No
B~~~ ~ _0 _                             R0 N _0 _                                         0 A0 0 N0                                     - |  a R                                                                     008NRNnN             4GCFA RR                A8v   i  
00 0                0 .      0.G 000A  ,           00      0    0       0        00 0 R                  0N00 N                     0 =                         000000000000G0eG       a' '    N O8       .°. A A 
_l0                    0      0     0      0        0    0    00                      0     0      0     0      0     0                                            0    0    0    0      
| ~        ~           00       0 =0                 0    0 N o  o =                                0000008=o          o= o    =o0   0 ,  .  e0 =         0o0         0    0 o e00  OOO  
00 0            0       000           0          00        00  C            °o o            0        00000 0    o .                         o 00 0 0   0   oo      o    o    o        o   0l,0
C~~~      ~~                             00_  _                                                                                             ...-X                              0000cQ    _<CH-  XC   ^,_,^,           5°VE.
00       0 ;W     0       0000         8     8  ,a F,s                           W12                  a 00000000_ 000000400000   000000             0        0000        000           0    @00
H8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                                     0 0    a 0   0    -  .      a             a           0 0 02aaSS=.  SCMUU   ,cs,    ~¢==a'
00 0                      000                   00     0     0                00 0                    00      00                 00 0 0                     000000000 8i=CC  )s Xc   W   gC   B   C    F%-F
0    u Sx 00 0               0000!                 00     0    0                 00000C>                 00 00                      00000C                     000000000a E@ A ff-a            a



AIEX 11
Table 1
P.g. 3
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICLLTURAL DEVELOPIENT FROJECT
Staff Salne-i   AlloeT-ncs
(! '500)
Unit Cost         Year 1          Yar 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year S        Total Co-t          Per ..n t    Cot           Locl Cost
B. Ghtha Boad a.tins Corpo-ation
(I-rn.tal Staff Cost.)                       '
1..cl radio *p.i.lint (TA)                      50.S              50.0           50.0                                                          100.0             100         100.0 O
Cootnotte                                        5.7               -              5.7             5.7            5.7             5.7            22.8               -           -                22.8
Sni-or Pregtan Orgoaise-                         4.8                             14.4            14.4           14.4            14.4            57.6                                            57.6
Program Organli                                  3.9               -             11.7            11.7           11.7            11.7            46.8               -           -                46.8
Peodot.r                                         3.0                              6.0             6.0            6.0             6.0            24.0                                            24.0
Senior Progras  Assistant                        2.6               -             20.8            20.8           20.8            20.8            83.2               -                            83.2
Chi7f bditor                                     5.7               2.9            5.7             5.7            5.7             5.7            25.7               -           -                25.7
Editor                                           3.9               -3.9                           3.9            3.9             3.9            15.46                                           15.6
Snitor potn                                      3.1                              6.2             6.2            6.2             6.2            2i.8                                            24.8
Rz-orter                                         2.3               -              9.2             9.2            9.2             9 2            36.8               -36 
Chief Engine.r                                   5.7               5.7            5.7             5.7            5.7             5.7            20.5               -                            28.5
Ereg srIng Conltnt                              60.0              60.0            -                                                -            60.0             188          60 0
Totel                                                      118.6           139.3           89.3           89.3            89.3            525.8              30         160.0            365 8
C. Oth-r
Lo.os Offirer for Ai.r.ultur-l
lSvelp-ent Mn, (TA)                           50.0              50.0           50.0            50.0            -               -             150.0             100         150.5               -
Pionnoial Cootro11or URDOC (TA)                 50.0              50.0           50.0            50.0-                   -                     130.0             100         110.0
0O-erson Tr-ining 4/                             _               10.0            20.0           20.0             20.0           20.0            90.0            100          IS  O
Totl                                                      110.0           120.0          120.0            20.0           20.0            390.0            1000         3900
D.  FarrsStrTriestotao2
local Staff Con  I(rroertal)  S/                                                1 '0,  102.9     99.5            7.1             -             550.0               -           -               550.0
G-neral I.noger *od ChiLf A-.co.ntent 6/         _               lo.'           105.0           105.0          105.0             -             420.0             100         420 0
Total                                                      445.5 5          07.9          204.5           112.1            -              970.0              29         420.0             550 0
Totl l-_rnet.l Sctff C05tS                                      174095         1.6SI           0835.5         1.325.7           963.0         7.215.1              66       3.540.0           3,675 1
Trrreortrl Lor1 S1-alari.. . All-.o.crs                           274.5          001 4           957c5          950.7           943 0         3,675.1                                         3 -  3.675 1
Orceeneret loEpatroara Solcr-io  & Allsorne                      ;,135.0        1,0IS.0           930.0          375.0            20           3,540.0             100       3,540.0               -
ll Salertes erA otlonscnce.
21  SnroodeA  froc Cotter D-Olop-ent Bord.
3/  1975/76 81-17   * Ht.r            -nti_C   at $ 1 ilin
ShArt-tn nW_a   O,rini8 ned tee.
!,Aeoo.t tetrenet.1 I .  oing oe908al r.e_st.
6/  Chief A.oroxt.at (t)7.
TA - F-nded fre Technic-l  Ailt.-   3rst (U).
0nn5.a- 18. 1975






zlgz  2 s                    2 
n   n"""9  ""n""  "i    n"  n   ""9"92 22r  2 2222                                       2222"       9''...,              22
--  222.2    222,22'2~~ 2   22'"2    2   92  2   92'           9n22' .'.'.99 22'
r  222222222.2.2   :222.2 2   222.2222 2    222 2   2222   22222222 2    22:2222  2        2  ~2   22   22.22          2   2    ..'.2           2 .    222
2   22'  9      222 2222                                       .'.2~2
22"''. 222  2   22222"2 2   222 ""222 2i             In 22"2""'      2          2z"22 I               29 2"   
---'-'2 En                     -                                                                                                ..     .
22                      2    2'2 2'''                    2''2.             2"         ''''2"."
......2           222-"i            n 22    229      22299                                                        .22 2n99 I   n ~
t      24
3  2QQAAAaA 22 AA      AAARA          AA22'                     aaS       A   gaA         AI ..  65.8 65 A8a8           8       8A  1a2A 9                                     .
26
t'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H I I                                                                                                                                                                Ii 5 '  I
222222222       222            2 2  I          2          2        22222           222               222                      22           2 2






ISIS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~SS~~~~~~~AIt  - ~           ~            ~           ~            ~           it   
E                                                                            PE*  I15
52552                                                                                                                                                  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I  I                   I                   2iIE2i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                  ...ai        ...   
ISi                                                           22222~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   .2.                                    "                         -
~~I  ~ ~ ~   5~~~~~2s  2.252    225....                                          .     ..
212  :-::  2g~~~~~~fl~~2  S.   ..i.2f.l.. .E                                                 .k
5       1         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                                                           






T.ble 4
COAEA
UTTER REGION0 AGRICULURJAI. DEVELOPMOEO   MaeJU
Vehicle  ae  Pisn, O,-rati.s Coats
Unit  IE., of                                                                                                                 Fori.gn Robhanln            local
Usit          C..,  Felts             Yea  I             Yea  2             Year 3              Yea  4             Y.ar 5        Total       .             Coot         -Coat
A.   rELJent  tissmn  Unit
Sal_on oar  2/                               veil    I.r           2.i      20       (4)     11.2       (4)     11.2       (4)       1.        (4)     111.2      (4)     01.12       501      601            33.            22.4
Tone wheel delve vehicles 3/     ve~hicl  Yearn        3.8        5       (1)      3.i       (1)      3Ii(U               .          )      3 (1      (11      3.0        19.       60            11.             2.6
Sobtot.1                                                                           15.0               15 .U              15.0               1S. U              15.0        75.0U    60             45.0          30.0
Saoo  can  2/vhicle yearn                                         2.6       5       (U)      2.i        U       2.6       (11)      2.6      (,I)      2.i       U        2.6        i4.U    6U                .4           5.6
Tooceheel drive vehicles 3/     vehiclet  Years       3.         5       9        4.2       (9       4.2       (0)         0      4.2 (6 40           9        4.2      11.0    60              UU26            6.4
Pick or tr-ka 4/                             vhce nion             3.1     il       (20      020       (20)     62.0      (20)      62.0     (20)      62.0      (20)     62.0       310.0      60           186.0         14.0
lote  cce    /vhleYose                                             0.4     5021'    (44)     17.       (9l)     26.4   (16           04     (130)    520       (30)       52.0       20i.4      hU15.1                       63.4
lubtet.l                                                                         116.6              135.4               149.4              11.                 510        734        6421.9                     701.4
5iln-  cae2/                                 vehicle years         2.0       11      (2)      5.6       (2)       5.4      (2)       5.0       (2)      5.6       (2)      5.6        26.o    60              11.8           11.2
TForoheel drive vhicle-  3/                  vehicle year          3.0      23       (2)       7.61     (4)      051.2      (5)     19.0       (6)     1~2.0      (6)     22.6        07.-4    60             592.4          565.0
Tick op cr006  4/                            vehicle Year          3.1      21       (2)      6.        (3)       0.3      (4)      12.4       (6)     16.        (6I06                51       6             301            2.
10C4 TIor.d ehoiTe-t                               oA ece  9, Tahle 3                          .2333.4                            743.1               763.1              703.61   3.0)12.7    501          1.559.)       1,513.0
Soht.t.11.                                                                                           5.                  2.                 3.                 3.1      323           0         l64U          10.
Fisheries
Fcor oh.l drive vehicle 3/                   vehile  er            3.6       (0      (2)       7.6      (2)       7.6       (2)      7.6       (2)      7.6       (2)      7.86       38.0      60            2.15.2
Ochne cycles 5/                   ve~~~~~~~"hicl  yene  0.4      35      23 .0               (7)      26        (7)      28        ()        2.8       3         .         14.0     60              6.45.
soht.t.1                                                                          i0.4                10.4               10.4               10.4               10.4        52.0      60            31.2           20.6
Foarehee 1 driv  vehicles 3/                 vehcl   yar           3.0       1       (2)      7.        (2)       7.6       (2)      7.        (2)       .        (2)      7.4        30.0      60            22.6           15.2
Sontor cycles 5/                 osh~~~~ ~~~ict  yer    .4       29      (3)       12        5)       2.0       (7)      3,5        7)       . 33.5                       132        0               .25.
Sohbo-l                                                                             0.4                9.6               11.1               11.1              -11.1        51.7    60              31.0           20.7
Anicol Hoshb-dry
Feorohe1 drIve vehicle 3/                    vhiole year           3.6       ii      (2)      3.6       (2)       (.6       (2)      7.6       (2)      7.6       (2)      7.6        36.1      60            22.6           15.2
rich OT troeha 4/vhicle   er                                       3,1      2)       (5)     15.5       (5)     15.5       (5)~    13.5        (5)     055        (5)     15.5        77.:5    60             46.5          31.0
Moter cco 5/nhicl  Ysc                                             0.4       25       5)       00       i,         .0       5)        .1       i)       2.0        5)      2.0        300       60             6.0           4.0
cohto-l                                                                            2.05125.1                                                25.1               25.1       025.0      60            71.3           10.2
F.orherO  drive vehilcle   3/                vehicle yes           5.       20       (4)     05.2       (4      15,2       (4)      15.2        4)     13.2       (4)     15.,2       76.0      60            41.6           30.4
Pich OT crocks 4/                            veilIee                .       32        4)     024        (7   27            7(3      21.7       ()17      7          )      1.          9.2      60            5..5           59.7
Scockc  7-ceo                                 -hiclo yace          0.1        5                          'I.) ,1  0.1        l       4.1       (1)      0.1       (4       6.1        40.5      60            24.3           56.2
S.htote1                                                                          35.7                45.45.                                45.0               45.U0       1.        60           129.4      ~ 86.3
Pla..ie.  ve-lo-ni-  sod ln-icso-
Isle. on car  2/                             vehicle years         2.4        5      (31,      2.0      ii        3.4       (1),     2.        (1)1     3.4       ()       2.0        14.0      60             6.4            5.6
Foor adh-l drive vehicl-s3                    et       years       3.0       15      ()       1.4       ()       10.4        3      (14        (3       1.4       (4      1.4         53.0      60            34.2           22.8
Pide nT Oe-ch  4/                             ehicle year          3.)      10       (2)      6.2       (2)       6.2      (2)       6.2      (2)       6.2       (2)      6.2        31.0      40            14.6           12.4
Sohcetal                                                                                              20.4               20.)042.4                             20.4       102.0      40            61.2           44.8
Fone wheel drive vshilc-  V1                 -hi~lc  yea-          5.8       0       (4)     15.2       (4)     15.2                 -                  -                  .          30.4     60             18.2           12.2
Ceeo--ic--oo     and TrI.Woo
lalo-  cars 2)                               vehicl  yna..         2.4      10       (2         .6      (7)       5.0      (2)       5.6      )(2))     3.6        2)      5.6        26.01    60             06.4           11.2
Tick  pT L .o.hk  4/                         Ye l   yer             .        0       (4  24             (4       124       (4       1.4        (4)     1-4        )        24          6.       60            33.2           24.9
F... 7/                                      vhceyas               3.0       1       )3)     1.         ()       1.4        )3      1.4        (3)     11.4       (3)     11.4        12.0      60            54.            22.4
Motee cyclss 5/                              vhcryear              0.       3 5      (5)      2.2~      iS)       2.0      )5)       2.0       (Si      2.0       (5)      2.0        10.0      60             4.0           4.0
soltot.1                                                                          31.4               31.4                31.4               31.4               31.4       152 .0     60            94.2          42.6
T-1s revJ(-  lenses-t  nict                                                                    2980            16.                 1,1)y.9            1.395              019.    4.765 .9    54              2.575 .5       2. 190.4
0. Other: lecieliste
Ocon   ae-/vhicle years                                            2.4        6      (2)       5.6      (2)       5.6       )2)      5.6                                              16.8      60            10.1            6.7
C.Fesroevce    wav
nocreesenat vehicle ronnong       see..  Anre  6, Aospendlo 3, yablr 4            72.0               10.5               14.0                 .                  .         96.5      40             57.9          34.6
U.  Gkay    0 B roaenIonConoat
,ale  cat  -/obicle year                                           2.8       iS      (3)      8.4       (3)       8.4      (3)       i.4       (3)      6.4       (3)      8.4        42.0      40            25.2           16.0
Tone wheel drive nehicIl   V/                vehicle y...a         5.6      13       1)3)    121.4      (,3      121.4     (3)      12 .4      (3)     01.4       )3)     1,1.4       52.0      60            34.2           22.0:
RooIcce Y"    /                            vhcl  Yese            04       21       (3        .0        3        1.0      )7)       2.8        )       2.0       S        2.4        14.0     60              8.4            3.
eo.qoipoen  j/                                                                              10.0               10.0               10.0               11.0                10.0       50.0      95            42.5            2.5
F15  ad pvea  for  9roete    /                                                             34.03.36050                                                                  36.0       10.0       50'            90.3          90.1
S.bl.1.1                ~4.                                                      6.6666                                  8.6               66.6       343.0     60            205.3         0137.3
T0TAL                                                                                         444.2            1.145.7             1.216.1            1.208.1            1.200.1  51222.2         55         2.8486         2.1373.4
I/  Vehicle cost ianloden f-l, eaosae    pare rccc,  ti-e  and drIvers.
2/  30.000l IIs/av  a1t 60.094 pe  Is.
3/  30,U  ls/ook        a  00.125 per Io.
4/  40.100, Ii Oo        t 60.078 Tee kw.
5/  15100 N    /nnans I60.025 pee lo.
4/35,100O hn,/so  at 80.23 Tee It.
/40,000 64cona   0.194 per ho.
0/  [Th-  end 'PeI" "arts.
7/  Allven-   Mad  One pT...ihility  of di  enwsio
Uncnh-  10, 1975






GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Administrative Costs
(e '000)
Foreign Exchange            Local
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5            Total           7.            Cost            Cost
Project Management Unit
General office running costs                        50.0            55.0            60.0            60.0             60.0            285.0          50            142.5          142.5
Audit and legal fees                                10.0            10.0            10.0            10.0             10.0             50.0           -               -             50.0
Telephone and cables                                 8.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             4.0              30.0          50              15.0           15.0
Maintenance to electric equipment                    2.0             6.0             6.0             6.0              6.0             26.0          50              13.0           13.0
Navrongo training costs 1/                          40.0            40.0            40.0            40.0            40.0             200.0            -              -            200.0
Seed multiplication and research farms 2/    25.0                   25.0            25.0            25.0             25.0            125.0          50             62.5            62.5
Internal travel 3/                                 10.0             20.0            20.0            20.0             20.0             90.0           -               -             90.0
Entertainment                                        2.0             5.0             5.0              5.0             5.0             22.0           -               -             22.0
Animal husbandry farms 4/                           15.4             2.6             2.6              2.6             2.6             25.8          50              12.9           12.9
Livestock management 5/                             20.3            21.4            21.4             21.4            21.4            105.9          50              52.9           53.0
Communications and training 6/                      10.0            15.0            20.0            20.0             20.0             85.0          50             42.5            42.5
Tree planting and fruit trees
(incremental) 7/                                12.2            32.4            34.0              -               -               78.6           11              8.7           69.9
Maintenance of civil works 8/                        -              65.4           107.0           127.1            141.1            440.6          50             220.3          220.3
Insurance on plant and equipment 9/                72.7             84.1            89.0            89.0            89.0             423.8           -               -           423.8
Rentals 1O/                                        180.0             -               -                -               -              180.0            -              -            180.0
Subtotal                                  457.6            387.9           446.0           432.1           444.1          2.167.7           26            570.3        1.597.4
Less predevelopment costs 11/                      500.0           500.0           500.0           500.0           500.0           2.500.0
Incremental administration costs                   (42.4)         (112.1)          (54.0)          (67.9)           (55.9)          (332.3)
Farmers Services Company
Incremental administrative costs 12/                52.0            15.6            22.0             7.8              -               97.4          32              31.2           66.2
Ghana Broadcasting Corporation
General office running                              20.0            20.0             20.0            20.0            20.0            100.0           50             50.0           50.0
Telephones and cables                                1.0             1.0              1.0             1.0             1.0               5.0          50              2.5            2.5
Maintenance of civil works                           -               5.2             12.4            12.4            12.4             42.4           50             21.2           21.2
Insurance of plant and equipment                    20.0            20.2            20.2            20.2             20.2            100.8            -              -            100.8
Rentals                                             10.0            10.0            10.0             10.0            10.0             50.0            -              -             50.0
Subtotal                                   51.0             56.4            63.6            63.6             63.6            298.2          25              73.7          224.5
Total                                                  60.6            (40.1)           31.6             3.5              7.7             63.3          25              15.8           47.5
1/  Residential costs for 100 trainees/day for 200 days at 02 per day.
2/  Total of 50  ha per year at 0500 per ha.
3/  Outside Project area, but within Ghana.
4/ Pasture development and maintenance.
5/ For animal husbandry farms.
6/  Special materials for communications and training purposes.
7/  See Annex 9, Table 4.                                                                                                                                                                                      2
8/  At 27% per annum.  After Year 6, 0l49,000 per annum.
9/  Insurance at 2% of plant and equipment per annum.
10/  Rental of houses and office accomodations prior to construction by Project.                                                                                                                             @ -
11/ Including predevelopment vehicle operations.
12/ See Annex 6, Appendix 3, Table 5.
December 18, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
II
Summary- of Incremental Farm Input Costs
Foreign Exchange
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5          Total        %/               Cost         Local Costs
Fertilizer
Nitrogenous 2/                                  625.0          332.3          462.0           550.6           682.4        2,652.3       73             1,926.2             726.1
Phosphatic 3/                                   616.0          419.9          561.4           631.6          972.3        3,201.2        68            2,177.3           1,023.9
Potash 4/                                         6.0            9.1            14.0           12.9            13.6           55.6       74                41.0              14.6
Subtotal                             1,247.0          761.3         1,037.4        1,195.1        1.668.3         5,909.1       70             4.144.5           1.764.6
Chemicals
Insecticides & fungicides                       310.8          312.4          410.9           459.1          228.7         1,721.9       90            1,549.7              172.2
Seeds                                             174.5          236.4            76.8          183.5            46.6          717.8        -                 -               717.8
Other Seasonal Inputs
Sprayers (ULV)                                   49.1           53.0           42.6            69.1           53.5           267.3       90               240.8              26.5
Battery sets                                      4.0           25.9            56.2           22.8            15.3          124.2       60                74.5              49.7
Spare parts for farmers' tractors                50.0           50.0             -              -               -            100.0       95                95.0               5.0
Subtotal                               103.1          128.9            98.8           91.9            68.8          491.5       84               410.3              81.2
Other Equipment 5/
Ox carts                                        146.3          281.3           303.8          826.3           348.8        1,406.5       50               703.2             703.3
Ox plows & ridgers                              180.0          235.0           240.0          245.0           250.0        1,150.0       70               805.0             345.0
Radio re.eivers (FM)                              -            240.0           240.0          120.0            60.0          660.0       80               528.0             132.0
Oxen                                             35.0           52.5            70.0           87.5          105.0           350.0        -                 -               350.0
Subtotal                               361.3          808.8           853.8          778.8           763.8        3,566.5       57             2,036.2           1,530.3
Ranch Inputs (Tumu Ranching Scheme) 6/
Civil works                                     114.8          139.6            24.8           15.0            15.0          309.2       40               123.7             185.5
Pasture development                              12.6           37.9            50.6           25.3             -            126.4       46                58.1              68.3
Equipment                                         1.9            1.9             -              -               -              3.8       80                 3.0               0.8
Cattle 7/                                        66.8          134.8           130.5          135.0            72.5          539.6       75               404.7             134.9
Subtotal                               196.1          314.2           205.9          175.3            87.5          979.0       60               589.5             389.5
Total Incremental Inputs                        2,392.8        2,562.0         2,683.6        2,883.7         2,863.7       13,385.8        65            8,730.2           4,655.6
1/  Details at Annex 6, Table 6.
2/  For cost estimate purposes, calcium ammonium nitrate.
3/ For cost estimate purposes, single super phosphate.
4/ For cost estimate purposes, muriate of potash.
5/ Sold on medium term loan basis; gross amounts shown.
6/ See Annex 5.
7/  75% imports, 25% local.
December 17, 1975



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Fertilizer and Seed Cotton Subsidies
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5          Total
Fertilizer Subsidies                     1/
Gross cost of fertilizer at farm gate -
Nitrogenous fertilizer                                   766.1        1,172.1        1,738.5         2,409.4        3,250.1        9,336.2
Phosphate fertilizer                                     755.9        1,267.6        1,953.1        2,726.6         3,916.1       10,619.3
Potash                                                     7.4           18.5           35.6            51.5           68.2           181.2
Total (1)                                      1,529.4        2,458.2        3,727.2         5,187.5        7,234.4        20,136.7
Actual selling cost subsidized -/ (2)                       495.0        1,178.8        2,406.6         3,439.8        5,854.2        13,374.4
Fertilizer subsidy  (1) - (2)                             1,034.4        1,279.4        1,320.6         1,747.7        1,380.2         6,762.3
Seed Cotton Subsidy
Unsubsidized farm gate value ¢/ton                       521.0          573.0          630.0           693.0          770.0
Subsidized farm gate value ¢/ton                         770.0          770.0          770.0           770.0          770.0
Subsidy per ton 3/                               249.0          197.0           140.0           77.0             -
Subsidy per ton (constant terms) 4/              206.0          148.0            96.0           48.0
Gross incremental seed cotton subsidy 4/                    185.0          666.0           864.0          648.0             -          2,363.0
1/  See Annex 6, Table 2.                                                                                                                               _  .
2/  ¢100 per ton - Year 1;  ¢140 per ton - Year 2;  ¢180 per ton - Year 3;  ¢200 per ton - Year 4;  ¢220 per ton - Year 5--
all constant 1975 terms.
3/ In current terms.
4/ In constant 1975 terms.
May 25, 1976



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Price Contingencies 1/
e '000
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5           Total          FE           Local
Vehicles, plant and equipment:
Annual gross cost ¢ '000                        5,186.3      1,326.9        301.3      1,647.2        267.3
Annual price contingencies                          16%         14%           7.5%         7%           7%
Annual price compounded contingency                 16%         32%          42%          52%         63%
Price contingency ¢ '000                          871.3        445.8         132.9      899.4        176.8         2,526.2       2,273.6         252.6
Buildings
Annual gross cost ¢ '000                        5,010.8      3,465.3      1,396.8      1,267.3       411.3
Annual price contingency rate                       22%         18%          12%          12%          11%
Compounded price contingency rate                   22%         44%          61%          81%         100%
Price conting icy e '000                        1,157.5      1,601.0        894.6     1,077.9        431.8         5,162.8        2,116.7      3,046.1
Incremental inputs 1/
Annual gross cost ¢ '000                         1,145.8     1,800.7      1,646.2      1,688.6     1,195.4
Annual price contingency rate                       16%         14%           7.5%         7%           7%
Compounded price contingency rate                   16%         32%          42%          52%         63%
Price contingency e '000                           192.5       605.0       726.0        922.0        790.8         3,236.3       1,974.1       1,262.2
Vehicle and plant operating
Annual gross cost e '000                          444.2      1,145.7      1,216.1      1,208.1     1,208.1
Annual price contingency rate                       16%         14%           7.5%         7%          7%
Compounded price contingency rate                   16%         32%          42%          52%         63%
Price contingency e '000                           74.6        385.0        539.6        659.6       799.2         2,458.0       1,351.9        1,106.1
Incremental local staff salaries
AnnuAl gross cost e '000                          274.5       601.4         905.5        950.7       943.0
Annual price contingency rate                       10.5%        7%           7%           7%          7%
Compounded price contingency rate                   10.5%       18%          27%          35%         45%
Price contingency ¢ '000                           30.3       113.7         256.7         349.4     445.6          1,195.7           -         1-19  :7
TOTAL                                    2,326.2    3,150.5       2,549.8      3,908.3      2,644.2        14,579.0       7,716.3       6,862.7
1/ Excludes fertilizers.
December 24, 1975



UIPPE  R 0I00  AGRICULTURAL. DEVELOPMENT9 PROJECT
Soa2  of Ptole-t Costs
(t 'F000
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4       Year 5           Total Cost                        Cost       Looal Cost          Bass.to      T-otal
Head Offtos Adiditoletoto
O,alar te    allowatos                  172.9        205.8         219.7         173.7        132.7              904.8             52         365.0           539.8
Plant velittas sod oqolpent             141.1         88.1           1.0          37.2          -                267.4             83          223.0           44.4
Buildup aod o.oetonrttoo                550t0        350.0         140.0           -            -              1,040.0             40         416.0           624,0
Vobiole aod plant op-rat.to              15.0          15.0         15.0          15.0          15.0              75.0             60           45.0            30.0
G osna1 addtititratio-                 457.6         387.9         446.0        432.1         444.1            2.167.7             26         570.3         1,597.4
Sobtotal                     1.336.6       1.046.8        821.7         658.0         591.8           4,454.9             36        1.619.3         2.835.6              10          7
T-nhoilal Servooes
Slarintg and AIlowatoso                976.0       1,332.1       1,527.9       1,373.9      1,293.1            6,493.0              5          9510.0       5,543.0
Plat nvthicl-e and eqip-sot           598.8         223.2         164.0        509.3         194.8            1,690.1             91       0,532.9           157.2
Buildlgng  a-d onttrootor            1,967.4       1,245.4         395.0         220.0         50.0            3,877.9             40       1,543.1         2,334.7
Vehiclo atd pants operating             196.b        225.5         241.0         242.6        242.6            1.148,3             60         688.9           459.4
tabtotol                     3.728.8      3,026.2       2,327.9       2,345.8       1,780.5          13.209.2             35        4,714.9         8,494.3
Loss pnedevelopnent rosIn             1,500.0      1.500,0       1,500.0       1.500.0      1.500.0            7.500.0              -            -          7.500.0
In  re       -betal tsrbi-rl s-nvi-ns  2,2298.     1,520,2         927.9        045.9         290.5            3,709.2             83       4,714.9           994.3               12         9
L-d Dens onlsaI
Sal-ieand allon.                       184.9         296.9        353.9         374.9         246.1            1,449.7             38         530.0           899.7
Pl .,solnlos sod oqolpos-         2,475,7        207.2          69.5         111.          3.              2,914.0             94        2,713~0,5         19.
Bttldiog Ls and -ost-io     nt          290.0        44173         431.3        491 3         361.             2,005.2             54        1,000.0          907 2
Vehicle sod pla-t openatitg              19.4        753.5         820.1        830.1         930.1            3,253.2             51       1,669.0         1.59532
Subtotal                     2.970,0       1.688.9      1.677.8       1.797.9       1.487.5            9,622.1             63       6,036.5         3.585,6               21        15
PlatoOns. ovaloatOtio and MntoringoIt
Onlantri  and alloosores                05.9         131.7        109,5         116.8         116.8              610.7             25         150.0           400.7
Plant, -ehiclet ad eqoipnt              55.3           3.0           1.0         43.3           1.0              103.6             87           09.9           13.7
B ildigs. sod  -oostrortior             185.0         40.0          40.0           -            -                263.0             40          106.0          159.0
Vehicle sod plant op-rating              20.4         20.4          20.4          20.4         20.4              102.0             60           61.2           40.8
S.bto-al                       346.6         195.1         220.9        180.5         138,2            1001.3            38          407.1           674.2               2          2
Cosniatotlnans and Tratonon
SalarIes sod sllnoatnos                105.2         107.7         107.7         65.0          65.0              451.1             33          150.0          301.1
Plant, -ebtlot and sqotp=snn           158.6          37.2           9.7         72.1           2.3              279.9             75         210.1            69.0
Btilddiog  and  nstnortin-              210.0          -             -             -            -                270,0             40          84.0           126.0
Pehinls asd plot op-ratitg                            31.4          314             .4          1.4              157.0             60          94.2            62.8
Sabtotol                       505.7         176.3        148.8         168.5          98.7           1.098.0             49          538.3           559.7               2          2
Broad-aotilg
Saaoios  and *llo,nc-s                 118.6         139.3          89.3          89.3         89.3              525.8             30          160.0          363.9
Plant, srhtnlss and rqntpoorl        1,002,2          10.0           _           52,2           -              1,964.4             86         910.9           033.5
Bulldingt sod no..trtrtnti              260.0        360.0           -             -            -                620.0             40         240.0           372.0
Vhilels sod platt open.titt             68.6          68.6          68.6          69.6         60.6              343.0             60          205.3          137.7
Osnons 1 sd=ni3ttstoattot               51.0          56.4          63.6         63.6          63.6              298.2             25           73.7          224.5
S.tbotl-                     1.500.4         634.3        221.5         273.7         221.5           21851.4             56        1.597.9         1.253.5               6          5
Cotton Oiorntoi,
Pltnt sod equip=ent                      -           671.0           -          671.0           -              1,342.0             90       1,207.8           134.2
B.ildi.gs sod  .o.n.ruction              -           526.0                       36             -              1,092.0             40         436.8           655.2
Sobtot-l                         -         1,197.0                    1.237.0           -              2.434.0            60        1,644.6           729.4               5          4
Fanner, Senvines, Coo2tno
.al -ieand allonsonso1                 445,3         207.9         294.5        112.1           -900.0                             29         420.0           550.0
PIsot,-shi.l-s sod oq.ip.oot           506.0          32,2         56.1         150.5          19.2              7840              9o0        703,6            8.d4
suildiogo sod  -onstr i-tot          1,378.4         502.6         390.5           -            _              2,2713.             32         732.4         1,559.1
Vobicle nod pl-ot oponatlng             72.0          10.5          14.0          -             -                 96.5             60          57.9            59.6
(enso tl ad_io2strstbon                 57.0          15.6          22.0          7.8           -                 97.4             32          31.2            66.2
Sobto-sl                     7,453.9         708.8        687.1         770.4          19.2           4,219.4             46        1,945.1         2.274,3                9         7
Conooltasts
Sa1arIes and alionanree                110.0         120.0         120.0         20.0          20.0              390.0            100         390.0
Pi_nt,   oI,h ,nd oqlip,est             41.6          25.0                                                        b 66.6           94          67.4             4.2
Bnildiogs .nd noostrontion              100.0          -             -             -            -                100.0             40          40.0            60.0
Vnbicle sod pltot openattog               5.6          5.6           5.6                                          16.8             60           10.1            6.7
S.btotol                       257.2        150,6         125.6          20.0         20.0              573.4             90          502.5            70.9                1         1
Ossh--irnailsi Sortsy
Islantes and allooonnce                720.0         150.0         50.0            -            -               420.0              96         405.0            15.0
Plant, vehicle: sod sqonpAnot          207.0          10.0           -                          I _              217.0             97         211.4             5.6
Buildingt and .onttruntlt               70.0          -             -             -            -                 70.0             40           28.0           42.3
Vehicle .od plot oponatiog              15.2         15.2           -             -            _                 30.4             60           18.2           12.2
Subtotal                       512.2         175.2         50.0           -             -               737.4             90          662.6            74,               2          I
F rtili-rs                          1,247.0         761.3       1,037.4       1,195.1      1,668.3            5,909.1             70       4,144.5         1,764.6
eeds                                   174.5         23684          76.8         183.5         46.6              717.8              -            -            717.8
Otsrrtlnldeo, tongirldee,
sprayer,, batter-ee, etc.            413.9        441.3         509.7         351.0         797.5            2,213.4            89        1,960.0           253.4
Fart eqnipnset                         361.3         908.9         853. 8        78           763.0            3566.5              57       2,036.2         1,530.3
Ka-rh inputs                            196.1        314.2         205.9         175.3         87.5              979.0             60         589.5           389.5
Sbtotal                     2,392.8       2,562.0      2.683.6       2,883.7       2,863,7          13,385.6             65        8,730.2         4,655.6               30        20
intel incret= l b-ssli-o coot          14.504.2      10.141.2      7.464.9      8.335.5       5.721.1           46.166.9             62      28.399.0        oA.2623               LOO         73
Physi-n1 -ostdng-int-s                    725.2        507.1         373.2        416.8         286.0            2,308.3             62       1,420.0           888.3                          4
Prine  -ootlogen-ios                   2.326.2       3.150.5       2,549.8      5,908.5       2,644.2           14,579.0             53       7,716.3         68,62 7                         23
Sobtota1                     3,051.4       3,657.6      2,923.0       4,325.1      2,930.2           16.887.3             54        9,136.3        7.751A8                          77
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS   0 '000           17,555.6     13.798.8      10,387.9      12,660.6      8,651.3           05,054.2             60      37.535.3        25.518.9                        10'
u8$ 'tOo       15,215.5      11,959.4       9,803.2     10,971.9       7,499.0           54,649.0             60      32,531.8        22,117.2                        100
Peone-tage di-tribntLon                    28           22            16            20           14                100                           60              40
Iby 13, 1976






GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT BY UNITED KINGDOM
Foreign Costs ./ ¢'OOO
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5           Total
Plant, Vehicles and Equipment
Cotton gin equipment 2/                             -           360.9             -            360.9             -            721.8
Radio teleDhones                                   46.2            -                              -              -             46.2
Broadcasting equipment                            796.7            -              -              -               -            796.7
Land development plant & equipment              1,805.2         139.8             -               -              -          1,945.0
Four-wheel drive vehicles                         281.2           15.2            7.6          250.8             -            554.8
Pumps and pipes for wells                           -             21.3           42.5           42.5            42.5          148.8
Trucks                                            229.6            -              -               -              -            229.6
3,158.9         537.2            50.1          654.2            42.5        4,442.9
Cotton Ginnery Buildings 3/                            -           210.4            -             226.4            -             436.8
Farm Inputs
Insecticides and fungicides                       279.7         281.2           369.8          413.2           205.8        1,549.7
Cotton sprayers                                    44.2           47.7           38.3            62.2           48.2          240.6
323.9         328.9          408.1           475.4          254.0         1,790.3
Spare Parts for Vehicles & Equipment 4/             312.9           23.3            1.1            37.6            -             374.9
TOTAL                                  3,795.7        1,099.8          459.3        1,393.6           296.5        7,044.9
Physical contingencies 5%                      189.8          55.0            23.0           69.7            14.8          352.3
Price contingencies                            637.7         396.0           202.6          829.9           568.3        2,634.5
TOTAL      0 '000                      4,623.2        1,550.8          684.9        2,293.2           879.6       10,031.7
£ Stg '000 5/               1,820.2          610.6          269.7           902.8          346.2        3,949.5
1/   CIF Accra.
2/   Excludes 128 Lumis saw gin; financed under Bank loan; estimated cost per ginnery, 0270,000 for 2 x 128 saw gins
and contingent equipment.
3/   Including storage.
4/   At 15% of plant, vehicles and equipment, excluding pumps and pipes for wells, radio telephones, ginnery equipment
and broadcasting equipment.
5/   At exchange rate ruling June 1, 1975:  El - 02.54.
May 13, 1976                                                                                                                         vie
a x



ANNEX 11
Table 11
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCING FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
¢'000
IBRD Funds 100%                               Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4        Year 5         Total
Chief of Field Operations                      55.0           55.0           55.0            -              -              165.0
Senior Communication & Training Officer        50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Ranch Development Officer                      50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0            -              200.0
Plant Breeder (IITA Contract)                  50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
General Manager of FSC                         55.0           55.0           55.0           55.0            -              220.0
Overseas Training                              10.0           20.0           20.0           20.0           20.0             90.0
270.0         280.0          280.0          125.0           20.0            975.0
Physical Contingencies 5%                      13.5           14.0           14.0            6.3            1.0             48.8
TOTAL                    283.5          294.0          294.0         131.3           21.0          1,023.8
UK Technical Assistance 100%
Chief Accountant- Project                      50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0            -              200.0
Chief Accountant FSC                           50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0            -              200.0
Loan Officer for ADB                           50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Financial Controller URDC                      50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Irrigation Management Officer                   -             50.0           50.0           50.0            -              150.0
Senior Farm Management Officer                 50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Senior Research Officer                        50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Senior Land Development officer                50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0            -              200.0
Senior Mechanical Engineer                     50.0           50.0           50.0           50.0            -              200.0
Mechanical Engineer                             -             50.0           50.0           50.0            -              150.0
Fish Culturist                                 50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Senior Planning & Evaiuation Officer           50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Development PlanneN 1                          50.0           50.0           50.0            -              -              150.0
Soil Specialist  1                             25.0            -              -              -              -               25.0
Cartographer 1/                                30.0            -              -              -              -               30.0
Socio Studies' 1        -                      50.0           50.0            -              -              -              100.0
Ten-year Development Planning & Study  5J 50.0                50.0            -              -              -              100.0
Local Radio Specialist                         50.0           50.0            -              -              -              100.0
Radio Engineering Consultant                   60.0            -              -              -              -               60.0
815.0         800.0          650.0          300.0            -            2,565.0
Physical Contingencies 5%                      40.8           40.0           32.5           15.0            -              128.3
TOTAL                  855.8         840.0          682.5          315.0            -            2,693.3
1/ Onchocerciasis survey.



052002A                                                                 3      37l 
___________- ---         --------------__  ....-.-.-. b OOO   ------------.-------.-____----------------.......... __.
0,.. 5           Soear 2          I, i             Y- 4             Y-A_ 5                                 000
:ROu i35FU55362S, r,,.OC0  50
Pu, Puojoot rsor.oous,   urand 6tock,0 21/.0                                   173.1            537.9             136.7         2,54.7           2,205.5
F-r e.r.,r. 2.-02,-  colty                  230.1             47.0              50.6             27.6              15.0           340.3            294.2
FM3 Y.ruars SetVites C<V. ny   .   2A5 0  _   243.0    .            4b6.0            421.1
Prr Co.tm 070,0,. Oor.200.0 CoO  u           3S.7              5                                    9            - 2.  .           6S.6             595
Subrotl                       21.501.b          239.0             223,7           923.4             252.7           3.439.6         200-.2
FGildi07 trorrr 00802 0n20   -            21,66.2          1,033.4            500.2             350.6            203.,          3.724.0          3,279.6
ior47000. Gh uloadceio  Cuouuor.eOoo        230.0            130.0                       -                         -              310.0            222.7
suTouuoo                       222.816        1212S.4             503.2            350.6            203.6          4.094.0          3554.3
Inc 0000l   30002000 70 0 ,,2C 963.0 9                   0672.4           722.0            075.5          1,54I.7          4,397.9           5,81.6
iu          - Agoioultuo,2 Or=o%rnt F,o,    u12 1            0626 6            95.4            534.3             473.4          2, 42.0         0.003.2
0270tur01                     4275.2          1.307.2           L.322.0         2.409.6          0.628.1            6.935.9         6,714.8
000 7o,jroo Ooro,g,r1,ur 77023    7~~~4.27        522.2            52.2~            550.0            537            2,0.              1222
Inct urental 4400, 300020,002u2700p          54               34.               3.3            5.3              3.3 332.5                        748.6
000000.0                         22.7            555.2            6D0.5            535.3            604.0          2,375.4          27052.
00070000 0,0,20001 00 h '     U:0it5.0                       235.0           0225.0              7 .0             20.7            705.0 o          620.
000 0,00000 30002000 Co,pooy     ~~~~55.3        22:.0             55.0             52.               ,               200M3.7
104000.2                        270.0           2u0.0            220.0           005.0               20.0            975.0           245.0
0U.22oo,002                                        317.3         1.876.2           264.1           2,255.0         12073.6            6,425.9         3 352.0
7054205002002, P              520o7.7         58.96.7          3.813.5           5.6Z.0            3.683.0        24.2202           21000.0
32.02. 0,4202,,. 030022000 002 22004Z
too Ptoojor 000020ooor Unit_               0,01.2             2 176.3           50.1            233.5              42.5          0,525.5          2,160.2
ur, 2Cr.... 5.002000 0002,07                 325.3              -                _03.0                              _              363.3            324.9
000002300n OOuo2Op.      -d 20002              -              362,2                             360.9                              721.r            423.2
700 22.020 022000..22u8 CuOruQu.iuA          2295.2            .                 _              22.2              .                bA_.3          330.0
Sobbuot,                      3258.9             537.2            50.1            654.2              42.5          4.4-2.9           85265
ror Cuo2ou 76VPloP0002 00.02                   _              200.4              _              226.4               -              436.3            376.6
1: tr,,20002 VoflOolu Oso,ero02n 100202/
000 2,05000 Ooo,00..2 Gt020-                 322.9             23.3              1.2             37.6               -              304.9            324.9
0o0 Pro1ect 2o      0 0022 Ubit              3555.0           600.0            500.0            250.0               -            2,905.2          1,651.1
202.,00 Vas2So6ru1jO   Coopory                50.6             50.0             50.0             50.0               _              270.0            273.5
Por Aortooloorol 000,20001,00 200t            50.0             50.0             50.0              -                 -              050.0            132.0
FOTora 20,00    atiG 500.0n22u  Ou.000u      110,0             50.0              -                .                 -              220.7            232.7
VA 02700 h4200  000,1020002me  CoOOoO.OOoo    50.t            50.0             5G.0               _  _                          2 52.7           230.0
S2b620,02                       S15. 2           00 0            620.0          300.0                             2 52.55.U        7.220.21
0002200.0.                                          200.3         42.2             050.0            224.6              522.2          5.115.1.__             2202.F
50205 0Y0 Fu030              5,479.0        2.,500 3            ,347.4         2,60.2             _ 879.6         12,725.0       22,228.7
2000228G922 Y2 60FG4
02002.  0052020.u OOCO,0 000Ge= G220t,
r40 OroloCt 0,002G00t Git0                331.0             53.4             22.9             433                               47
2,. 7.0--00 7,060.., Oo.o9 50.6                                5 2              5.2              03.0                              20.4             240.6
FA.08,00 Gb 000 F n,ldro8ti2 000o5 .         640.3             1.4               -               1i.2                             253.4            333.
FA 0  t0 A  itQ7AG 20o2o,,oo  000_                            63, 2                              6 7. 1          -3     23.    222
221502,2  523.2   227.2            27.5            237.5             307             942~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15.5  723.7
300 OdOr,. oud Co.rOOOluo 000702010
PA0 Oroloos  200.20,005 3022              1.2                2,5304           503.2            350.6             205.6          3,7S4.7          3,027.2
000M.. 0  -00,   ....02o  Oop, n o          20.               200              66                                                  22022.
ror CSttO oeoD oo,2O70.. 0-oL _                             312 0 6               3        _20 333.6 _507
706000,2                      1.816.2     _         1.534.0      303.2         .   67D 2           205.6          4,70.1 0         4_ 2216 2
102005,7                    .  29.           3 535.2          002.5             525.7            254.2   _              3.73.4  2_ 2050.2
ncr_500t00 40.02 30,32 SO 0,010.
Fur 7001,00 i900.2 0 0020                  72(76.00          307.2            722,3             557.03242.4                     0,352.710,250.2
00, 42,00 Drou,000,it3 Cu,puorpzG           222.2    _ 239.3           2_ 981.3              8233       _     2_2V3 3         52,57.2           4.252.8
20100502                       ( 57.41      _6447.2            237.2             947.9             650.7         3,325.1                722 S
U02020002,76                                      1,320.7         726.6            1.13Z.G          233.2              940,2          4,020.2          4.242.3
Ot...i.n~~~~~~~-  .....                                                                                                                                  :7  ntiuim
50002im3s ad l urGOOotl       3,642.2      3.302,5          3.     875.Z         274.1          2     G3.         5 Z22          2     025.3
-6,0.0,0 2.rklo _ 300210022000 rative0                    11.3                                                                550.0            476.7
1r0r0ooo2.5 3.00 20702.    ~~5542.0          432.7            42,542 0.2                                        369.
bolldlrj.                          2.370 4            502.             30534
l0,Oloo   550. 6  422.9         472.0      _ 0Z36.9              342.3         _2I.233.            2 2975.6
rOtQI    ~               94 2.4.       1.480.9         1.470.1           622.9             845.u          7 567.0          0 552.4
d22le20u20,u OOOlur,or, 2,04
20, 0.0 2 004 0.0,,.., Luar,                 045.7           494.2            462.3            429.2             370.9          2,000.5           0,735.4
DGllo050                                             28 Z.5  _  2  57.7               169.8            166.G        2  26. 4         6404              __520.2
uorl,                            276,3         652. 25 23                        2.               2.             .4,              ,9.
17.555.b        25.79-.8         10,327.9         12,6620.2          .651.3          63,254.2         54,669,G
_7 3002000, 00.40 Ou. _0254. .00.25.24.  _






ANNEX 11
Table 13
GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Cumulated
US$'000                      US$'000
Fiscal Year - 1
First Quarter                           500.0                        500.0
Second Quarter                          500.0                      1,000.0
Third Quarter                         1,000.0                      2,000.0
Fourth Quarter                        1,000.0                      3,000.0
Fiscal Year - 2
First Quarter                        1,000.0                       4,000.0
Second Quarter                       1,000.0                       5,000.0
Third Quarter                         1,500.0                      6,500.0
Fourth Quarter                        3,500.0                     10,000.0
Fiscal Year - 3
First Quarter                           500.0                     10,500.0
Second Quarter                          500.0                     11,000.0
Third Quarter                        1,500.0                      12,500.0
Fourth Quarter                          500.0                     13,000.0
Fiscal Year - 4
First Quarter                           500.0                     13,500.0
Second Quarter                          500.0                     14,000.0
Third Quarter                         1,500.0                     15,500.0
Fourth Quarter                       1,500.0                      17,000.0
Fiscal Year - 5
First Quarter                           500.0                     17,500.0
Second Quarter                          500.0                     18,000.0
Third Quarter                        1,500.0                      19,500.0
Fourth Quarter                       1,500.0                      21,000.0



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Develooment Board
Illustrative Cash Flow for Ginneries
' 000
(in current terms)
Year I      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9       Year 10        Years 11-15    Year 16
Gross production seed cotton (tons)             3,000        6,600       11,100       15,600       20,100       20,100'      20,100       20,100       20,100        20,100         100,500         20,100
Gross outturn linit (tons)                      1,140        2,508        4,218        5,928        7.638        7,638        7,638        7,638        7,638         7,638          38,190          7,638
Gross outturn cottonseed (tons)                 2,160        4,752        6,882        9,672       12,462       12,462       12,462       12,462       12,462        12,462          62,310         12,462
CASH INFLOW
Government equity 1/                             -         570.3          -          752.6          _            _            _            _            _             _               _
Long term borrowing 2/                           -       1,314.0          -        1,609.0          -
Short term borrowing 3/                          -         264.7        126.8        195.6        273.5          -            -            -            -
Ginning fees 4/                                  -         430.7        775.1      1,165.6      1,501.7      1,606.8      1,719.3      1,839.7      1,968.5       2.106.3       12,960.6         3,161.0
Total Cash Inflow                                -       2,579.7        901.9      3.722.8      1,775.2      1.606.8      1,719.3      1,839.7      1.968.5       2,106.3       12,960.6         3,161 0
CASH OIrTlFLOW
Cost of establishing two ginneries:
- buildings                                    -          795.3          -        1,075.7          -            -            -            -            -
- equipment                                    -          930.1          -        1,071.0          -            --                        -            - _ 
Operating costs of ginneries 5/                 -          264.7        507.3        782.5      1,093.9      1.170.5      1.252.4      1,340.1      1.341.1       1X435.0        8.830.4         2,153.7
Subtotal                               _        1,990.1        507.3      2,929.2      1,093.9      1,170.5      1,252.4      1,340.1      1,341.1       1,435.0         8,830.4        2,153.7
Loan Repayments
Slort term loans                              -           -          264.7        126.8        195.6        273.5          -            -            -             -              -
Long term loans                               -           -            -            -            -          290.D        290.0        290.0        290.0         290.0        1.450.0
Subtotal                                 -           -         264.7        126.8        195.6        563.5        290.0        290.0        290.0          290.0        1,450.0
Interest Costs
Short term loans 6/                           -          13.2         19.6         16.1        23.5         13.7                                     -             -
Long term loans 67                            -          58.1        116.3        187.5       258.7        245.9         220.2        194.5        168.9         143.2          329.8
Subtotal                                 -         71.3        135.9        203.6        282.2        259.6        220.2        194.5        168.9          143.2          329.8            -
Total Cash Outflow                                       2,061.4        907.9      3,259.6     1 571 7      1.993.6       1,762.6      1,824.6      1,500.0       1.868,2       10,610.2         2.153,7
Balance - surplus (deficit)                     _          518.3         (6.0)       463.2       203.5       (386.8)        (43.3)        15.1        168.5         238.1         2,350.4       1,007.3
jI  For buildin5 and equipment, including contingencies.
I Proceeds of tl and IBRD loans at 8.85a for 15 years with 5 years grace.  See Annex 11. Table 16.
F Fot woyktit  OsPital putrposes:  1001 for Year 2, 25% for Years 3-5, interest at 10%.
4/ Ginning fees E150 per ton lint in 1975 constant terms inflated by 7% per annum for current terms.
J  Includes sal8ries and wages, maintenance and insurance, administrative tnd overheads, and variable costs, excluding
interest charges. See Annex 1, Tables 15 and 16. 1975 constant prices inflated by 7% per annum.
6/ On average loan outstanding.
May 18, 1976



GHANA
UPPER RERGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Development Bank
Illustrative Cashi Flow for Fare Loan Account
0 '000
(current terms)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    YearS8    Year 9    Year 10   Year 11   Year 12   Year 13   Year 14   Year 15 6/
CASH INFLOW
Government loan funds 1/                          380.1      871.5      884.8       852.7      810.9         --                                                                                            
ADB funds                                         271.8      651.9      636.1       585.8      504.3        ----                                                     ----
Subtotal                                  651L9   1,523.4   1,520.9   1,438.5   1,315.2                         ---------
Loan repayments by farmers
Ranch development loans 2/                        8.4       30.0       50.2        61.3       67.0      104.8      132.6       127.7      116.5       107.1      100.1        91.3       68.5        27.6         2.4
Ranch cattle loans 3/                             7.8       86.9      220.2      302.3       286.6      259.8       298.2      310.0      220.3        74.1         -          -           -          -           -
Farm equipment and oxen loans 4/                84.9       309.5      579.4      875.2   1,161.3   1.106.4         881.8      611.9       316.1        30.0              -           -                -          -
Subtotal                                  101.1      426.4      849.8   1,238.8   1,514.9   1,471.0   1,312.6   1,049.6             652.9       211.2       100.1       91.3        68.5       27.6         2.4
Total Cash Inflow                                 753.0   1,949.8   2,370.7   2.677,3   2.830.1   1,471.0   1,312.6   1.049.6               652.9       211.2      100.1        91.3        68.5'    27.6           2.4
CASH O!JTFLWJ
Development loans to ranchers                     165.3      238.1      112.4        64.8       25.2              -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
Cattle loans to ranchers                           65.0      148.0      186.4       207.5      222.5      238.0       254.7      136.3         ----                                                     --
Farm equipment loans                              318.0      838.6      935.0       994.3      902.0         -          -          --------
Oxen loans                                        42.7        72.7      104.4      139.7       179.8        -           -          -------                                                                     
Subtotal                                  591.0   1,297.4   1,338.2   1,406.3   1,329.5           238.0       254.7      136.3         ----- 
Repayment of loans by ADB
Government loan, interest & principal            16.8       72.7      149.9       226.8      300.4      336.2       336.2      537.0      518.4       499.8      481.3       462.7      444.0       425.5      406.9
Cotmuission to Farmers Services Company 5/          1.5        6.4        12.7       16.6       22.7        22.1       19.7       15.7         9.8         3.2        1.5         1.4        1.0         0.4        -
Total Cash Outflow                                609.3   1,376.5   1,500.8   1,651.7   1,652.~6          596.3       610.6      689.0       528.2      503.0      482.8       464.1       445.0      425.9      406.9
Balance                                           143.7      573.3      869.9   1,025.6   1,177.5          874.7      702.0      360.6       124.7     (291.8)    (382.7)    (372.8)    (376.5)    (398.3)    (404.5)
I/  Onlending of IBRD loan at 8.85% for 25 years with seven years grace for principal.
2/ 13-year loans at 127, with five years grace for principal; assume 857. repayment at due date, 107.
in following year, and balance 5% written off.
3/  100% repayment over 20 months at 1% per month.
4/Five-year loans at 12%, no grace period; 857. repayment at due date, 107. in following year, balance of 57%
written off. Payments on equal annluity basis.
5/  At 1-1/2% of loan funds collected an behalf of ADB by FSC.
6/  In Year 25 accumulated balance after debt service by ADB is 00.56 million.
May 18, 1976--



GHANA
UPPER RECION lAGRICULTiURA  DEVELOPiENT PROJECT
Illnotrrtins covern--nt Cash Floi
e '000
(In cornent terme)
Year 1       Year 2       Ye.r 3       Year 4       Year 5        Year 6       Year 7        Year 8       Year 9        Year 10       Years 11-15    Years 16-25
CASH INFLOW
External Plnaooies
I..1. los          W (Third Wlndo) 1/        5,207.7       5,896.7      3,813.5      5,628.9      3,683.0           -             _            _             _              _                              _
LK lose 21                                   4,620.5       5,550.8         68649    2,298.2          079.6          _             _
Ul gr..t                                        855.8          40.0        682.5       315.0           -
S.hbotal                               10,686.8       8,287.5      5,180.9    8,237.1       4,562.6
Lose Rexasmeots
Agri-CIttr-I DIeoelss_- le-k 3/                  16.8         72.7         149.9       226.8         300.4        336.2         336.2        537.0         518.4         499.8        3,775.6          1,506.6
Farser. SemIte. Conp ny 4/                       60.7        170.2         281.9       418.2         565.7        639.9         639.9      1,022.2         986.8         951.4        4 226 0          5,825.6
Cottee D.e-le. Int 8oard 5/                       -           58.1         116.3       187.5        258.7         535.9        510.2         484 5         458.9         433.2        1.779.8              -
Subtotlt                                   77.5         301.0        548.1       832.5       1,124.8      1,512.0       1,486.3      2,043.7       1,964.1        1.884.4       9,781.4          7,332.2
FSC  -orpora-oi  t.o                              -             -            -           -             -          446.9         644.1        897.3      1,144.7        1.333.2        7,642.0         15,284.0
Total Cash Infloa                              10.764.3      8.588.5       5.729.0    9.069.6        5,687.4      1.958.9      2.130,4       2.941.0       3.108.8        3.217.6      17.423.4         22,616.2
CASH OUTFLOW
LO-s  6 1
Loise  to ADi                                   380.1        871.5         884.8       852.7         810.9           -            -             -            _              .              _
Leans to CDR                                      -        1,314.0           -       1,609.0           -
Lo.os tn FSC                                  1.371.8      1.102.7       1.421.4    1.658.9        1.675.2          -                                 -             -              -               -
Sobtotal                                1,751.9      3,288.2       2,306.2    4,120,6        2.486.1           -            -             -            -              -
Govern  en1 -r-est   Costs 7/
Pi-n00  v-hlas aed eqolpmeer                5.763.4         926.1         369.0    1,425.6          252.0        733.5         784.8        839.7         989.5          961.4       5,915.5         19,933.3
BuHldlogs sod const". c.loo e_ terialo       4,612.6       4,057.3       1,670.0    1,934.4          863.2           -            _            _             -              _              _                -
loorersienoll vehlcle np.rariog                 537.5      1,569.6      1,787.7      1,896.7      2,029.6         741.3         793.2        848.7         908.1         971.7        4,617.4         18,846.3
Tocho-cal  an.ileta...                        1,135.0      1,080.0         930.0       375.0          20.0                        -             -            -                             -                -
I_cre.otsl I1,al stats nalarion                   -          484.0         925.3    1,174.0       1,444.5       1,545.6      1,653.8       1,769.6       1,893.5       2,026.0       12,466.3         42,007.4
F-rtilier-  Cd  .ottoe  subeidle-            1.270.5      2,033.9       2.293.8    2.515.5       1,160.3           .            -             .            .              .               -
S.btotol                               13,319.0    10,150.9        7,975.8    9.321.2        5,769.6      3,020.4       3,231.8      3,458.0       3,791.1        3,959.1       22,999.2         80,707.0
ToNal Cas  Outflov heforo t-t-roal
Dpnbt Renayo,eet                             15,070.9    13,439.1    10.282.0   13.441.8          8,255.7       3.020.4       3.231.8      3.458.0       3.791.1       3,959.1       22.999.2         80.787.0
RalIoco                                        (4,306.6)    (4,850.6)    (4,553.0)  (4,372.2)   (2,568.3)   (1,061.5)   (1,101.4)              (517.0)      (682.3)        (741.5)      (5.575.8)       (58.170.8)
External Lo-e Roepsvmnts
18RD lose  _o-tteno  fIn  3/                    162.2        120.6           4.1        40.7          13.0           -            -             -                                            
IBRD 1iterest 9/                                126.3        395.6         631.0       865.0      1,085.8       1,175.1      1,175.1       1.155.7    1,113.8           1,070.4       4 62 .4          4,506.2
IBRD princIpal 9/                                              -             .           -                                                   828.10        874.           9140.5      5,2950.0        16,245.8
Uil Io.r 10)                                      -            .            .                                       -             -           394.7        394.7          394.7        1.973.5          3.947.0
S.btot.l                                  288.5         516.2        715.1        908.7      1,099.6       1.175.1      1,175.1      2.377,8       2,382.5        2,379.4       11,888.9         24,697.0
Net Cot ,o  ovetneort (Defj, i)                (I.,595. I    I5,16h.8)    (5,260.1)  (5,208.9)    (3,667.9)   (2.236.6)   72,276.57 5        2,094.01   (3,064.08        13,120.9)    (17,464.7)        (82.867.8)
1/  US$21 .11110- ot 4.852 for 25 years withb nenn  ysar. gtacl f-o principal.
2   fs*t  4 sllecn iroraeltt-ree for 25 y..rt  011h nonno ypars Urre for priocip.l.
3/  i3.8 millIon (intlasive ef  oOlinenciOs), 8.852 ftr 25 yearn with .a.n.  year- grace for princIpal.
_/  87.2 nilli.o  (inc1nn7ve of  Sooliogeteln). 8.852 for 25 Yeore 04th never ys-re gR--t for p -inclp.l.
5/  02,9  1ill0  (-loliinva of toI tin encion), 8.85. for 25 years .1th nov00  years gran-  for prirrlp.l.
6/  I-clodes physIcal -nd price coontiegeo..n.
7/  Where *ppLichble after Ye-r 5 .O.ts inflated as 77 por annum.  Co.t.  in-ld   investment by i v--rsntn  in
URPOl, FSC. COC and COS.
8/  At 3/4  of 17. pet ano or -ndiib-sed a..o.to.
9/  Sn. footnote  /.
33/ Stt ftootnote 2/.
MHy 25, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 17
GHANA
VIPPER REGION AGRICULTVRAL DEVELOPH8NT PROJECT
Ercrenentai Economic Preodction Coals and Rtcefica
000 (1975  ce.t.nt eTent  USSI El     1.5
Tear 1         Tear 2          Ter 3          TYear 4         Year 5         Year 6          Yean 7         Year 8          Tear 9          YTra  10-20
Ieremlental CreP Ne.efits 1.
Millet                                              46             113            221             432            864             864            864             864             864            864
Sorgb,sr                                           130            340             668          1,304           2,608          2,608           2,608          2,608           2,608           2,608
Hater                                               48             142            276             448            715             715            715             715            715             715
Rice                                               282          1,030           2,246          3.385           5,506          5,586           5,006           5,506          1,506           5,506
radcdse                                            243          1,073           1989           3,205           4,028           5,206          5,625           58963          6,300           6,30
Esun nu                                          210             405            780           1,500           2,250          2,250           3,250          2,250           2,250           2,250
Coee peas                                          111            314            624           1,235           2,07           2,156           2,205          2,247           2,289           2,289
Csttr                                              673          3,312           6,678         10,085          13,626          13 ,06         13,906          14,166         14,328          14, 328
Tetar s                                             81            342             235          1,179           1.650           1.728          1.806           1.884          1 962           1,962
Trtal                                  1,829          7,071          14.217         22,773          34,254         34,909          35,565          36,203         36,822          36,822
Iancersental Crao Epruts
Nitra8emeas Pertili -er   '                        782          1,129           1,739          2,418           3 261           3,305          5,348           3,391          3,425           2,435
Phephate   Pemti7itees a'                          752          1,268           1,9308         2,705           3 885          3,805           3.885           3.885          3,685           3,885
Petaselce, Peretliacre  aI              2             18~            ~~~ 35          51              68             67              665644
Icerticides red pesticides                         128            535           1,072          1,717           2,426           2,426          2,426           2,426          2,426           2,426
Spreyec, ULV.  31                                   65            135             192             284            354             177            177             177             102            172
Nain   er4/                                  5              65            21              268            301             301             301            301             301             301
IRaitatcr    nadir  ets   /                         -1             312            312             156              8             32121
Plee  red ridges -                                 238            310             317             323            330             717            217             21722    217 
ot Cast   6/                                       191             366            396            425             454             261            261             261             261            261
0..  7/                                             35              53             70              88            105              44              44             44              44             44
Iapraeued reeds  8/                                142            416            837           1,454           2,183           2,183          2,183           2,183          2,183           2,183
Sapplemeetal mere fred  9/                         107            310            522              743            974             974             974            974             974            974
Eqaiptert Hsintessace  LO/                           4              13            22               31             41              41              41             41              41              41
I-crretertal 1ab-r  11/                            178            856           1.799         _2,892           4.638           4.638          4,638           4.638           4,638          4,638
Tetal                                  2,635          5,806           9,464         13.556          19,098          18,831         18,561          18,759          18,724         18,724
Net lereesetal Cr-p ree.fit.                      (806)         1,235           4,753          9.217          15,156          16,078         17,004          17,444          18,098         18,098
Increreetal Livetnck B-enfitc 12/
Ra-hbiag Schema                                     12            129             220             232            768             307             351            383             410             410
A--Ia Haa sbaedfy                                    2               4              6               7               7              7               7               7              7               7
nrterieer5, letvegnemeet                           749            932           2,316          2.837           3,873           4.881          6,691           0.349           9.063          0.065
TtIal                                    763          1,065           2,542          3.076           4,148           5,195          7,049           8,739          9,482           9,482
Inerevemtal tInesLtek IlPats  13/
Ra-chitg SOrehm                                    200            365             250             244            245             138            250             253             100            53
Vrenti-ary Dregc                                    91             110            135             140            141             151             171            174             179           181
Tetal                                    299            477             385             384            386             389             421            427             359            234
Not I.c.emectal Live-tock Be.-fits                     464             588          2,157           2,692           3,762          4,806           6,628          8,312           9,123           9,248
Total Ret  ec.eenetal Sersfita                        (342           1,823          6,910          11,909          18,918         20,884          23.632         25,756          28.031          27,346
1/  Oar.ed em terrememal prodaction emtmimtes at A..e  2, Table 15 erd f-re..sted lati gate
prices at Acnx I  Table 6.
J/  Sea Anne-   6, Table 2 - base Cret at ster.
2J Tua yeflre life.
4/ lerludes betteelees far radies.
5/  Raplared after 5 yee.,
6/  Repl.e.d free year 6  -c2arda at e-qul beefs  eqai-elent tn ae aver-ae
repla.e_ect nate every 7th year.
71  Repla.ed free y.ar 6 eacarde rn eqeal baeis eqeinal-at tn ae enera8e
repla.remet rate enemy 8th year
8/  See A.es  2.
9/ Saed cn I tea af graei per em pair per cars.
10/  Sapleve, ridges, aDd Teals et.
I/  Iecm=ntal laba Is less  eaber caned due ta acen c.l.ti-atim  laber val-ed
at  habae wage mate ef t 0.8  a  da.
12/  SN- Arex 5.
13/  EaIldesaeral hc.bacdry as meets erg ic-igeifica-t tha latter togetnh-  ,ith
-eterir-ry cert-. excluding drge, see l-cluded ic Present  -nerhead  c.tr.



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cash Flow
f ' 000 (1975 Constant terms US$ lC 1.5)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6          Year 7          Year 8        Year 9      Year 10-20
CASH INFLOW
Incremental Crop Benefits                     1,829            7,071           14,217         22,773          34,254          34,909          35,565          36,203         36,822       36,822
Incremental Livestock Benefits                  763            1.065            2.542          3,076           4.148           5.195           7,049           8.739          9.482        9.482
Total Inflow                       2,592            8,136           16,759          26,849          38,402         40,104          42,614          44,942         46,304       46,304
CASH OUTFLOW
Direct Production Costs:
Incre2utal Crop Inputs                        2,635            5,836            9,464          13,556         19,098          18,831          18,561          18,759         18,724       18,724
Incremental Livestock Inputs                    299              477              385             384            386             389             421             427            359          234
Subtotal                           2,934            6,313            9,849          13,940          19,484          19,220         18,982          19,186           19,083     18,958
Overheads: Crop Production
Building Costs                                4,709            3,476            1,895          1,720             557            -               -               -              -            -
Plant Vehicles and Equipment Costs            6,249            1,505              240           1,782            147            -              1,000             147           -             383
Salaries and Allowances                       1,487            1,730            1,840          1,164             754             482             482             482            482          482
Plant Vehicle Operating Costs                   446            1,254            1,335          1,326           1,326             967             967             967            967          967
General Administrative Costs                     65              (43)              25               3              9            -               -               -              -            -
Contingencies                                   648              396              267            300             140              72             122              80             72           92
Total                             13,604            8,318            5,602           6,295           2,933           1,521          2,571           1,676          1,521        1,924
Overheads: Livestock Production
Plant, Vehicles and Equipment                   245               65             _                163              7            -                163            -                 7           57
Salaries and Allowances                         264              275              275            275             215             215             215             215            215          215
Plant and Vehicle Operating                      71               82               82             82              82              82              82              82             82           82
Buildings                                       942              662             -              -               -               -               -               -
Contingencies                                    76               54               18             26              15              15              23              15             15           18
Total                              1,598            1,138              375            546              319             312             483             312           319          372
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                              18,136           15,769           15,826         20,781          22,736          21,053          22,036          21,174         20,923      21,254
BALANCE                                        (15,544)          (7,033)             933          6,068          15,666          19,051          20,578          23,768         25,381      25,050
J  x
January 17, 1976



GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic rate of return - sensitivity analysis
Rate of
- Increniental Benefits                ----------------- Incremental Costs -----------------                     return
Crops           Livestock               -----Direct Costs --              -----Overhead Costs ---
crops        livestock             crops          livestock
K                K                     K               K                  K                 K                    40
K              -1(10                   K             -100                 K               -100                   33
K              - 50                    K             - 50                 K               - 50                   37
-100               K                   -100              K                -100                K                    95
- 75             - 75                  - 75            - 75                  K                K                     9
- 50             - 50                  - 50            - 50                  K                K                    22
- 40             - 40                  - 40            - 40                  K                K                    26
- 30             - 30                  - 30            - 30                  K                K                    30
-20              - 20                  - 20            - 20                  K                K                    33
-10              --10                  - 10            - 10                  K                K                    37
K                K                     1()             10              + 10              t10                    33
K                K                   + 20            - 20               t20               t 20                   28
K                K                  t30              t 30               t 30              + 30                   23
-10              -10                     K               K                   K                K                    32
-20              -20                     K               K                   K                K                    26
-30              -30                     K               K                  K                 K                    18
H- H-






GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT ORGANIZATION
COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
PROJECT MANAGER
FIED I'E.-Tl..~                       ACCOUNTS AND                                  ADM;NISTRATION
I FIELD OPERATIONS  I                      I  PROCUREMENT                                   AND PERSONNEL
AGRICULTURAL                 LANG                                                   ERINARY                                                                   CMUCATO                 P        EVALUATION
TEHIA  ERVICES          DEVELOPMENT                                            VCSANO) TANING                                                                                    ADMNTORING
I  RESEARCH AND   I   2   LAND PLANNING                RANCH                        ANIMAL                                                                                                PRJECT EVAL-
7  SEED MULTIPLICATION I   7   AND CARTOGRAPHY  IA1ODEVELOPMENT    IHEALTH                                  E                        COSEA       IO          II                          I     N
IPLANT DUARANTINE  I *       WELLS AND      I      I SMALL HOLDER    I                                     FISH CULTURE    I         FRUIT TREE                 FUNCTIONAL     I          DEVELOPMENT     I
AND INPROUECTO                 RI TFE                    ATNN                                                                          DEVELOPMENT    I         ADULT LITERACY   I          PLANNINGI
INPETIONE
SOILS AND WATER                                                                                                                     PROJECT STAFF 
NUTRITION              CONSERVATION               REXTENSION                                            STOCKING                                                                      PODUCT ION
WORKING ACCOUNT                                                                                                                                                 MNTF:N
-|  CROP EXTENSION                                     OXq TRAINING  I                                                                                 -|       FARMEIR
TRAINING                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COURSES
FARM MANAGEMENT              WORKSHOP
I  COTTON      I     I   CONSTRUCTION
n  DEVELOPMENT    I  I   UNITS
Wo,Id B.nk E-15t(2RI






GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANOGRAM TO SHOW ASSOCIATION OF PROJECT FUNDED AGENCIES WITH OTHER AGENCIES
COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE
--I
UPPER REGION                                                                                       UPPER
.AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                        5--         REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE                                                               S                CORPORATION
U
16SUU          BANK OF GHANA
PROJECT COOROI N           -IG  -  - - -                ANAG   NT                                                              m          m         COMMERCIAL PJANK
COMMITTEE                                            UNTI                                         COMPANY (UR) LTD
I           I  ~~~~Lm              FARMER
L       '        ~ |      L--ss| CASSOCIATIONS
TECHNICA-                                        FIELDOPERATIONS          -            -J              ADB            i
mm               INVESTMENT
rI------                S BANK
_ COMUICTINSAN  -J           GHANA            I   |
-  -AI  OEPARTMENT  I BROADCASTING CORPORATION
I    ACRAS                                         PLANNING EVALUATION                                                                      |        MAKTN
ISSE.H R         r_AND MONITORING DEPARTMENT _ -__MARKETING
ACCRAACCOUNTS AND                                                                            |  REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIONg |
_TPROCUREMENT DEPARTMENT r                                                                               A-_ _ _OFFICE
_   ADMINISTRATION AND    _                                                                          Fi |Poject Management Unit
I   _  PERSONNEL OEPARTMENT                                                           '          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    Other Critical Agencies
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                                                                ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I   Associated Agencies and
_   _                                                      I          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Departments
I-- ---- - - - - --                                   Operatlinal Lickagn
ACCRIA (MA)                                        AGRICULTURIAL                             I   COTTON DEVELOPMENT    I              * -         E u Fiiir Linkag
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANIZATION                              TECHNICAL SERVICES     -  - - - - - -                                                   _ BOARD
L -            -----                                   ecinica Lmtagr
..ANU HORITAY                                     LAND DEVELOPMENT
ACCRA _MA)                         DEPARTMENT OF
ACCRA IM A)                                                                 _      SCWA        -  - - -           IRRIGATION IUR)
DEPARTMENT OF                                     ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
DEPARTMENT OP SOCIAL
STORAGE AND __ -~-            WELFARE AND COMMUNITY
ACCRA MAI                                        I                                                            DEVELOPMENT IUR)
DEPARTMENT OF VETERINARY                                  VETERINARY
ACCRA IMA)
DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES                                   FISHERIES                                                                                         d
]   |              |                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IViiill  BicilnkSOHH12RI
FOER  DACCRA             L
|    OETY DEPARTMtN                                     FRSR
l..ESTR~~ ~ ~ l:                                B T






GHANA
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bar Chart on Project Operations
ACTION REQUIREMENT                               ACTION          FY76            FY77                      FY78                      Y9F8                                                YIF8
AGENCY         A]1   ~}}FA J AT+}NOJ F MA}F~~]iEJ~                                                   SJAO
_       _              -                                                                     1                         I                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-- 
NED    Lorm- t,r'G O'                                                                                                             
PO      Esalortst0 URAS3PEC, URFN$U                    GOV                                                            
POP     Fot-fI notoco f FSC                            GOV/~nSI                                                                               FI
OP     I I Ifl,sloapl.rb-ctP-,O FSC                     ttrIII
POP     FomlerrIsIto f-d-Iae  Gosdo                     OV
LE      APpo--ma- RI k.Y -~If tO URPMU N FSC           SOV                                                                                     
LE      EIafatlIh-eo of GRPML) b-I,8000                URADPEC 
CE  G.atantee for URPMU --con                      GOV 
LE      Fo,maIoaton  f UEKtlosltO                      GOV               MT_____                                                    ___I_
OP      E,t IBRRDIUK d,,Ib--an P-oodrr-                GOVFIREG,S
OP      Apportmnl,.,   -f safItfrltOtI                 GOVIIBRSUEKS
Or      Appttelo Rff1081URPMU/G8CFS
OP      Aowsltr   I-- tem .-9usn                       URPMUJFSC                                                     I
PRO     005SES & BUILDINGS FOR
PRO         R SPMU                                     GRPMU 
PRO     -USCoIPMU/FSC                                                                                      CO                                                        8 
PRO        GBC -                                       Ueaorf  RPMUIGBCI 
PRO     -CDR -                                         CDsmrs
PRO     VEHICLES & EQUIPMENTII
PRO     -___rOOtsoetIe  fo  BISrRN                     URPM                                                                                    I 
PRO     -  ar     a,rrrrS.CA                           URPMU,UKI 
PRO                                                    CBraostrnGCIUKI 
PRO     -omers
PRO     F-r FtSCt
COY     E-tbI,sl--f of PCC & PTCGO
COY     PoIt-- pape  _npr-  &  _YEsd-e                 SOV
COY     A-tro on tettrlhar, .-d                        GOV
CON     R.0,0 e-a-se                                   GCR
CON     Pla-t  -d,,,,r--onUrPMr
CON     O-ht...... ,at S-rom  UttAPM
0EV     TIJMU RANCHING SCHEME
DE        Selo--o of tI,- .,,d UOICtRPMUJ
DEV     -Prept--r Of tf--- n pl-rt                     URPMUGI
DEV     . R-nch -opNo orat                             URPMU
DEV     -Rsr-c  ~deolp-.f                              UR PMYIADB_________
DEV     -FARM DEVELOPMENT                                                                                             I
DEC     -  nrm  armors Wboo P,.,..t                    URPMU
DEC  - Frmatrh  01 fame drop                      URPMU
SEV    _. Esa -Is  rtoIRtutUeIGPMUL
ODECVV     Ien,vrOs  satesSURPDSIFSC
DEC        13,tsttIb.,-O  & 581851 Onputrs             FSC
0EV     Ad... Id Immen-                                 URPMU
DEV     GAMS & SOIL CONSERVATION                       URPNf0
DE         GrIe ss--ro & pant--                        URPMU
DEV       C- COfsIrtUcP,U
DEC     Wells & Iam -- Oo                              SWCS
TRN     EoslIO   &altratnstsI.f                        UEPMU                                  M
TAN     Lar        --soOer  -taf                       GRPMIt
TRN      -rlt,o  tff                                   UOPMUG
TON      FSC staff
TON     AoOOt,OfIf                                     UR PMU 
TORN     Far-r A---tIrr Isa-t                           UR PMV
TR       Sw.ebra      - -eangeetloota                   URPMU                                                                           . ~        IU
TORN    Rsno,r--rmone                                  us MU
TRN     Gsrta  oors. f.t 1-01 UOOIeafr                   RPMU
TAN     G--eta 00015 f., -o-Pinote- SGot -tl           UOPpmS
TRN     O- saerlf-rgURM
FINANCIAL                                      ADB 
FIN      -Booe P0bI.f.    Y                            URPMLrIFSCIGRC                           --
FiN       IRd",I aPprosl Drbords & IoRASPEC
FIN         E                                           UOSfOat,  RPMVJ,FSCI
G BCCA DB
REF       QoanletlY & --lfl  rprgAll
POP         -  roorridd  mr01rnf at
OP          -One...lIInsl 
PRO            PtOOt,      -                                                P---nt
DEC          O- Gaelprererred..
TON          T-Tr -r,r
PIN            EtflsPtIYtOOfSdo
REP         -Rprrr
CON          C-1Co 1cF-rr Con--cs                                    A      C_ 5        b00f
ADB            A. -1-Itts D-clop-1f Bapo
Ranks                          m omttlOnsI Gh-C                     *.-      O-er Of ---Ero
CDR            C.ror Deel-  m    Bo-d
SOC            GI:b-o 8rodcarrn  C.......o
FSC            F.--rmeSw-n.osC-prarn, (URLId
lORD                .....e.IlOra_ Iar t., R----roc,o
SACO)          ..Mn."'I of Soct1Welfa Rs  C-mnm-tt
URASPEC        Upper RA.ron AdttII-Otsf. D-oeFp,,-
P_o,enE__-t,o  C-mmIre
SOFMO       -   pP.t R--o Prote, M-naaooo-U                                                                                                                                                         World Bank-lEOS?






GHAiNA
UPPER REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS SERVICES COMPANY (UPPER REGION) LTD
ORGANOGRAM
I   BOARD OF                                                                         T
DIRECTORS                  1
--Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UI
FlINANCE AND                                            COMMERCIAL                                             AGRICULTURH AL                                            INTER NAVL
ADUINISTRATI ON                                         SERVICES                                               SERVICES                                                  AUDIT
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT                                           MANAGER                                                 MANAGER                                                 AUDITOR
PERSONNEL                               3 *ROCUREMENT ACENTS  a                                                                                                           TEAM
-Ei3                                   B ATANGA              SERVICE   A
_  REGISTRY   l                        |        _   TRANSPORT AND             D                     CENTERS
* |  |       DISTRIBUTION
NAVR-ONG       _    SERVICE
T                                             CENTERS  M
{ i  1  ;;;;7                      ~~~~~~~SERVICE E
CENTERS  E
DISTRICT            CENTERS R
- LWRA { SSERVICE
DISTRICT      ~~CENTERS 
Wo,Id B-nk-15090(214






I B R D    11821
L' '-    "      0                            OCTOBER t' ''LE d' m'LCTt 1075
{12 r i,J8 ,; \ f f l * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI VER °)(~
.\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bl                                                                                                                           \                                         0.I1OE SK=    STRC oNDRRey VQ,
\4 \\ - i a1- 10 KIL M F~~~~~~~~~R                                                                                            T          ACR2
C    A                         Sob/GSH  A.oNooA
S      ,tOko . .    I                                                                           Qse  CA A  M'S
/ 3s -   r /                 .=g t/              s b =.                                                                                                                                                        i   .        ..           S'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~Os  oo  <  
UPERROOEG ION1CTO AGRICULURLY
DEVELOPMVENC1-ITIPOGRA                                         IT
0  POSSIBE SITES  OR SERVICE  CENTESP AR-ATT
Coo 010           0<                            PROPOSES ROSCO~~~~~~~~ITHTHS AREARBRASREA 
*  PROPOEST HEAROOCATEIS ASS REPEOATE  SAPTATINL(                       -
___                                                    SOS~~~~~~~~~~~Tl- TETS RESLTATO
-STESNG CALTOVATIEROA
ROTE T       TSETSE PLY ASS/OR                                           I --
0  ID  1,         ED                                            STRICT BO.ND~~~~~~~~~~~~~AITHTESS  RA
JKILO.ETI.PS                                          INTE~~0   RONETIONALOUNDARTCRS AOROOA   AIA                       
0  10  11           11                                                                                                                                 OACCRA~~~~~~~~~~~TRCE






1 0 11822
AG             I
~~DFHO57R  ADo   >Yo,,  "N  ~~~~~~~~GHANA
'7  %UC                                                  4.1                        ~~~~~~~UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM__
SOIL CLASSIFICATION 
LISS I  AII.VIAL MILE; ..El,  AND HEAVI TEX~~~~~~~~~TUREIMFERFECTLY  ~ I   W.,o
$57              ~~~CLASS I1 PO..ATLY  .EED;WE.NLLDTAR.  IR.IGT.IN. MDCOANISATONAR                 ORIS                 
-  -  -                                                          -     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L    SANDO DRY . FARMING CY AR
___                                                                                            DOB-SOILPAYDHEOOF DO~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLSS   S ALLOW, .YEOE SOLS, HNDUIAND DORY ARMING
DeS. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    AN     NI~~~~~ADr   LN   RVR
GA ~~~~~~~~~  >~~~~~~~-~~~~~"                                 0'                    CLADGIW                                                                       '7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  N 
*  DISTRICT CENTER-'/ 0                                                          
EXISTING HOYTDARLE SOAS                                0
DOADOYTO DE OP-VED FOA COMM TRTI.
GOYEHNMEST FUNS                                                                        '
U                               U-E                                           TE NAALOHA&, .. E
7'                                                                                                                         0SRM'N 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~At~,
>1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   _______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1E






I B R D  11820
I70                                                                                                       r.  ^0o                             OCTOBER O 175
t~~~~~~~~~~~~ p                            E;  R                  v       0      L      T       Ae
N AVROWIL, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                   .                       0.~
7y~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A~~~~~~~~~~
R- *                                    :2  0 a >  ,   ,  GH^NA         '                                                                  . `
UPPER REGION AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
LANGUAGE DISTRIBUTION
DAGARI              MAM I I                                  iI
I            OArSSOA LA           OAO 
-ALl               TAMPULM             (    /A
SIRIPOR            ERA-ERA GUEENNEI  . 
A      Vo0b7rt1      \                                                                                                                            GOYERNMENT FUNOSAFROMBCOMEIT   I0A -lD 
-.. CRAKCALI          TALNI 
KA-                 I                    08A
-:   -   ESE          -IO -
TST  L ND ONCR-ERCIASIS AREAS,
VERY VSPARSLYTPOPULTED                      G H A  N A
C)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)PROJECT HEADUAATRRRS ANO REGIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT CEANDERES
'KILOMETERSX'    0  oL   rID   2pD3p   -'-    INTERNATIONAL  BO"NDAR ES             1               0ACCRA
eQl D Tumm lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                            INTyERNl rATI=cONA dmUNMlRLES °IOend i



