CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1291 T-GH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Upper Region Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 28, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors
of the Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third
Window (hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such Resolution;
(C) the Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate term loans, of which this Loan is
one;
(D) the Borrower has requested the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland (hereinafter called the United Kingdom)
to assist in financing part of the Project by an allocation of
£4,000,000 from the Capital Aid (1975) Loan Agreement entered
into between the Borrower and the United Kingdom (hereinafter
called the U.K. Loan Agreement);


﻿-2
(E) The United Kingdom has agreed to make available to the
Borrower, technical services to assist in the implementation of
the Project, through its existing Technical Assistance Program
for the Borrover; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ADB" means the Agricultural Development Bank, a body
corporate established pursuant to the Agricultural Credit and Co-
operative Bank Act, 1965 (Act 286), as amended, of the Borrower;
(b) "CDB" means the Cotton Development Board, a statutory
board established by the Borrower by Cotton Development Board
Decree 1969 (No. NLCD 353);
(c) "FSC" means the Farmers Service Company (Upper Region)
Limited, a company to be established under the Companies Code,
1963, of the Borrower;


﻿-4-
(d) "GBC" means the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation, a body
corporate established by the Borrower by Ghana Broadcasting Cor-
poration Decree 1968 (No. NLCD 22);
(e) "URADPEC" means the Upper Region Agricultural Develop-
ment Project Executive Committee referred to in Part A of Schedule
5 to this Agreement;
(f) "URPMU" means the Upper Region Agricultural Development
Project Management Unit referred to in Part B of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;
(g) "URDECO" means the Upper Regional Development Corporation,
a body corporate established under the Regional Development Corpora-
tion Decree 1973 (No. NRCD 140);
(h) the sign "0" means cedis in the currency of the Borrower;
and
(i) the sign "T" means pounds in the currency of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2-01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the rank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and eighty-five hundredths per cent (4.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time; provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any
time determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be suffi-
cient to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual inter-
est payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the
Administrator at that interest payment date as specified in para-
graph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
upon notification by the Administrator of such determination and
the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest on
such principal amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrover shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, through the URPMU, ADB, CDB, FSC and
GBC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain an account with
a commercial bank in Bolgatanga, which shall be under the control
of the URPMU Project Manager and such persons as he may designate,
and shall arrange for and maintain an overdraft facility in respect
of such account of not less than 03 million.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure the proper management of the
Project and coordination among the agencies carrying out the Proj-
ect through the URADPEC and URPMU, in each case in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and through the
committees referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
(d) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the proceeds
of the Loan shall be applied in the manner indicated in Schedule
6 to this Agreement and the Borrower shall ensure that the other.
financial arrangements set out therein are implemented.


﻿Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed,
specialists of the kind indicated below, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall in each
case be satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) A radio broadcasting engineer to prepare, in consultation
with GBC, specifications and tender documents for FM transmission
and to supervise procurement and installation of broadcasting
equipment;
(b) A plant breeder specialized in small grains; and
(c) Specialists to assist with the planning of those areas
which are freed of onchocerciasis in the Upper and Northern Regions.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, cause to
be insured, or make adequate provision where applicable for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance ary indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to make available as and when needed all such
land and rights in reppect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project, including about 20,000 hectares of land suitable
for ranching, and shall furnish to the Bank, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
(b) For the purposes of ranch development under Part A(5) of
the Project, the Borrower shall lease land, out of the land referred


﻿- 10 -
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, to the participating ranchers
for a period of not less than 45 years on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Loans to ranchers in respect of such
ranches shall not be made out of the proceeds of the Loan until,
in each case, such a lease has been concluded with the farmers
involved.
(c) URPMU shall provide FSC access to sufficient land and
facilities in each farmer service center to enable FSC to supply
inputs and marketing facilities to farmers.
Section 3.06. Goods and livestock imported by URPMU and FSC
and capital equipment imported by GBC and CDB, for the Project,
shall be exempt from all import restrictions and customs duties,
and the Borrower shall, when required, make foreign excharige avail-
able to such agencies for such imports. The Borrower shall take
appropriate action to give effect to the foregoing within two
months of the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank may
agree.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a
Project Coordinating Committee and a Project Technical Committee,
in accordance with the details set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.08. ,a) The senior management staff listed below
shall be appointed, and replaced when necessary, in a timely
fashion, and their qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of their employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank:


﻿- 11 -
(i) URPMU staff: Project Manager, Chief of Field
Operations, Chief Accountant, Senior Communica-
tions and Training Officer, Senior Project
Evaluation Officer, Senior Land Development
Officer, Ranch Development Officer and Senior
Irrigation Officer.
(ii) FSC staff: General Manager and Chief Accountant.
(b) In respect of each appointment of such Project Manager,
Chief of Field Operations and General Manager: (i) if it is pro-
posed to appoint a Ghanaian national, the Borrower shall ensure
that the Bank is consulted prior to such appointment; and (ii) if
it is proposed to appoint a person other than a Ghanaian national,
the Borrower shall ensure that the Bank's approval is obtained
prior to such appointment.
(c) Other senior staff of URPMU, FSC, ADB, URDECO and GBC
involved in the Project shall be appointed, and replaced when
necessary, in a timely fashion and shall be adequately experienced
and qualified for their respective tasks.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall give priority to the recruit-
ment of staff required for carrying out the Project, and once
appointed, URPMU staff would not be transferred to other duties
for a minimum of three years except with the concurrence of the
URADPEC.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any elfternal
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, iggo facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-13-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
. (c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause ADB, CDB, GBC,
FSC and URPMU to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
respective operations and financial condition related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the foregoing agencies
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors approved by


﻿the Auditor General of the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than fraur months   er the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of each of the foregoing agencies
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause CDB, FSC, GBC and
URPMU to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1977, or such
other date as the Bank may agree, submit to the Bank for its com-
ments a paper setting out the Borrower's proposed agricultural
pricing and subsidy policies.
Section 4.06. (a) FSC shall be permitted and enabled to pro-
cure, directly, by importation or otherwise, all farm inputs it
requires, except fertilizer, for supplying farmers in the Upper
Region. If FSC is required to supply any input to farmers at sub-
sidized prices in accordance with the Borrower's laws or policy
in effect at the time, then the Borrower shall pay FSC in advance
amounts equivalent to the subsidy at the time in force, calculated
on the basis of a formula and according to a timetable, both ac-
ceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
(b) The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank to provide CDB with the funds it requires to purchase, as
delivered, all seed cotton produced in the Upper Region at official
prices prevailing at the time.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure that not less than
seventy per cent of the GBC broadcasts from the Upper Region,
Regional Broadcasting Network shall originate from and be directed
to the Upper Region and that the annual broadcasting budget and
programming policy for the Upper Region shall be mutually approved
by the URADPEC and the GBC.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
FSC in accordance with such regulations as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exempt FSC from all import duties,
sales, income and other taxes and import restrictions during the
first five years of FSC's Operations. The Borrower shall take all
such action as may be required, to give effect to the foregoing
within two months of the Effective Date, or such later date as the
Bank may agree.
(c) In the event that the commercial banks of the Borrower
fail to subscribe to the share-capital of FSC in an amount of up
to 04,000,000, the Borrower undertakes to take appropriate steps
to increase its equity participation in FSC by an equivalent
amount.


﻿- 16 -
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that FSC's regulations are not
amended save with the Bank's consent.
(e) The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, PSC engages in no business except participation
in the implementation of the Project until the fifth anniversary
of the date of this Agreement.


﻿-17 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its ob-
ligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower


﻿- 18 -
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution of FSC, URADPEC
or URPMU or for the suspension of any of their operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in paragraph
(a) (i) (B) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-19 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The Borrower has established the account described in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and an initial deposit of 03 mil-
lion has been made in such account.
(b) The Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for an overdraft facility of at least 03 million in respect
of the account referred to in paragraph (a) of this Secti(,n.
(c) The Borrower has appointed URPMU's Project Manager and
Chief of Field Operations.
(d) FSC has been established in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 4.08 (a) of this Agreement and its Managing
Director has been appointed.
(e) The Borrower has reached an agreement with the United
Kingdom on the terms and conditions of the allocation of £4,000,000
from the U.K. Loan Agreement.
(f) The committees referred to in Section 3.07 of this
Agreement have been established.


﻿-20-
Section 6.02. The date September 28, 1976, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-21-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Senior Principal Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M76
Acera, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-22-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Samuel E. Quarm
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Peter Wright
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and equip-        2,900,000         100% of foreign
ment (other than                             expenditures or
farm equipment),                            86% of local
saw gins and as-                             expenditures
sociated equip-
ment, veterinary
drugs and aerial
photography
(2) Fertilizer, ranch          6,000,000         100% of foreign
and farm equipment                           expen,aditures or
and supplies,                                65% of local
batteries, tran-                             expenditures
sistor radios
and livestock
(3) Salaries, allowances        800,000          100%
and recruitment costs
of internationally
recruited staff and
foreign training of
local staff


﻿-24-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Buildings (excluding       3,600,000          50%
buildings for CDB and
FSC), including fur-
nishings, and construc-
tion materials for
dams, soil conser-
vation works, wells
and grain stores
(5) Vehicle and plant          2,100,000          50%
operating costs, in-
cluding spare parts,
for URPMU and GBC
(6) Unallocated                5,60o,000
TOTAL     21,000,000


﻿- 25 -
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Proceeds of the Loan withdrawn to finance farm inputs through
FSC are intended to finance only incremental amounts required to
expand the supply of inputs to farmers in the Upper Region. Accord-
ingly, FSC shall, after the first year of Project implementation,
withdraw proceeds of the Loan to finance farm inputs only to the
extent they cannot be financed out of the repayments of loans
made to farmers and payments made by the Borrower to FSC pursuant
to Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned polioy
of the Bank.


﻿- 26 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $750,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1), (3) and (4) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
May 1, 1976.
6. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the


﻿-27-
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a five-year (1976/77 - 1980/81) investment
program of the Borrower with a view to increasing agriculture
production and establishing permanent farm support services in
the Upper Region, and consists of the following:
Part A:   Farm Development and Supporting Services
1.   Establishing about 90 farm service centers to provide
improved extension services to small farmers and
management advice to a relatively few larger farmers,
health and nutrition services, marketing facilities,
farm equipment maintenance and input supply facilities;
2.   Providing farm inputs, for cash or on credit, through
the FSC and ADB, including insecticides, seed dressings,
improved seeds, fertilizers, spare parts, farm
equipment and oxen in amounts sufficient to increase
production on about 108,000 hectares of seasonal crops,
including millet, sorghum, dwarf sorghum, maize,
groundnuts, yams, cotton, rice, cowpeas and tomatoes;
3.   Improving on-farm grain storage by providing cement
for plastering and concrete lids for traditional
stores;


﻿-29-
14. Improving animal health and extension services and
improved animal husbandry through provision of
increased trained staff, vaccines, vehicles and
equipment;
5. Establishing ten small (2,000 hectares) ranches by
vesting the required land in URPMU and leasing it to
individuals or groups of farmers;
6. Developing and staffing seven applied research and
demonstration units to adapt crop research results
for application in the Upper Region at existing
agricultural stations, together with an associated
seed multiplication program;
7.   Establishing a pilot functional literacy scheme built
around classes designed to reach about 1,500 farmers;
8.   Expanding the GBC's broadcasting facilities in the
Upper Region, broadcasting programs to further the
Project in three major languages and supplying through
FSC about 22,000 radio receivers to farmers in the
Upper Region;
9.   Improving human nutrition and health through agricul-
tural extension services, the functional literacy pro-
gram and the radio; and
S


﻿- 30 -
10. Providing in-service training for Project staff at the
existing Navrongo Agricultural Institute and funds and
travel grants for visits to selected projects and
schemes for specialized management training outside
Ghana.
Part B:   Physical Infrastructure, Works and Equipment
1.   Constructing about 120 new small earth dams with a mini-
mum capacity of 120,000 cubic meters, with downstream
irrigation works where feasible, and rehabilitating about
100 existing dams to provide water for dry season gar-
dening, fruit tree nurseries and fish ponds developed
under the Project and cattle, and improving water con-
servation;
2.   Construction of works and implementation of other
measures to protect at least 160,000 ha of farm land,
including catchment areas of such dams;
3.   Providing materials and supervision for self-help
construction of about 700 village wells with pumps;
4.   Constructing simple offices and stores at about 90 farm
service centers, offices for the URPMU and FSC at Bol-
gatanga and at seven district administration centers and
housing for Project staff;
5.   Providing vehicles and other equipment for the TTRPMU,
GBC and FSC;


﻿- 31 -
6.   Constructing two 9,000 ton per annum cotton ginneries; and
7.   Construction of facilities and installation of
broadcasting equipment of sufficient power to reach the
entire Upper Region through a main radio station at
Bolgatanga and transmission stations at Tumu, Lawra,
Wa and Bavku.
Part C:   Institutional Support
1.   Establishing and supporting the FSC;
2.   Strengthening the Bolgatanga Regional Branch of the
Agricultural Development Bank through provision of
an experienced loan officer and vehicles;
3.   Strengthening the URDECO, partic larly its transport
and wholesale divisions; and
4.   Strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture within the
Upper Region through establishment of the URPMU.
Part D:   Development Planning
Establishing, under direct control of the URPMU, a special
Onchocerciasis Survey Unit to prepare in consultation with the
Coordinating Committee of the National Onchocerciasis Program
of Ghana a ten-year development plan and feasibility studies


﻿- 32 -
for investment projects for areas freed from onchocerciasis
in the Upper Region and Northern Region of Ghana.
*              *              *             *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1983                                  355,000
July 15, 1983                                     365,000
January 15, 1984                                 375,000
July 15, 1984                                    385,000
January 15, 1985                                  390,000
July 15, 1985                                    405,000
January 15, 1986                                 410,000
July 15, 1986                                    420,000
January 15, 1987                                 435,000
July 15, 1987                                    44o,ooo
January 15, 1988                                 455,000
July 15, 1988                                    465,000
January 15, 1989                                  475,000
July 15, 1989                                    490,000
January 15, 1990                                 495,000
July 15, 1990                                     515,000
January 15, 1991                                  520,000
July 15, 1991                                     540,000
January 15, 1992                                  550,000
July 15, 1992                                     560,000
January 15, 1993                                  575,000
July 15, 1993                                     590,000
January 15, 1994                                 605,000
July 15, 1994                                     620,000
January 15, 1995                                  635,000
July 15, 1995                                    650,000
January 15, 1996                                  665,000
July 15, 1996                                     680,000
January 15, 1997                                  700,000
July 15, 1997                                     715,000
January 15, 1998                                  730,000
July 15, 1998                                     750,000
January 15, 1999                                  770,000
July 15, 1999                                     785,000
January 15, 2000                                  810,000
July 15, 2000                                     825,000
January 15, 2001                                  850,000


﻿Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
Gene:ral Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.05%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          3.90%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5.65%
More than sixteen years but not
more than twenty-one years
before maturity                          7.45%
More than twenty-one years but not
more than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8.15%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for
the purchase of goods and services shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent may be let through normal government pro-
curement procedures, provided that the aggregate of such contracts
shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for civil works and procurement of construction
materials and furnishings may be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with


﻿-36 -
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Ghana may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.


﻿- 37 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Ghana.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 38 -
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Construction of new dams, improvements to existing dams,
soil conservation works, farmer service center buildings and
village wells may be carried out under force account by URPMU.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 39 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promplUy after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿4o -S
SCHEDULE 5
Organizational Arrangements
A. Upper Region Aricultural Development Project Executive
Committee (URADPEC)
1.   URADPEC shall be chaired by the Regional Commissioner of the
Upper Region and shall include the following as members: senior
representatives from Accra of the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture,
Labour, Social Welfare and Cooperatives and Economic Planning; re-
presentatives of the Attorney General of Ghana, Director General
of GBC, the Bank of Ghana and ADB; Upper Region Regional Adminis-
trative Officer, the URPMU Project Manager, member of the House of
Chiefs and two Upper Region farmers appointed by the Upper Region
House of Chiefs in consultation with URPMU.
2.   URADPEC shall be responsible to the Commissioner of Agricul-
ture and shall have the following responsibilities:
(a) Policy: URADPEC shall determine agricultural and develop-
ment policy in the Upper Region, and shall consult with the Borrower
and the Bank when any major changes in policy may be required.
(b) Finance:
(i) URADPEC shall approve the annual budget of URPMU
and shall ensure that sufficient Government funds
are readily available to the Project;


﻿(ii) URADPEC shall, subject to the approval of the
Auditor General of the Borrower, appoint independent
auditors for URPMU;
(iii) URADPEC shall submit audited statements of accounts
of URPMU to the Commissioner of Finance within four
months of the end of each financial year;
(iv) URADPEC shall approve the opening of URPMU bank
accounts; and
(v) the Chairman of URADPEC shall approve the monthly
cash flow statements submitted by the manager of
URPMU.
(c) Staff and Personnel Matters: In consultation with the
Project Manager of URPMU, URADPEC shall be responsible for approv-
ing the appointment of all senior URPMU staff and employees, their
terms and conditions of employment, and annual review of salaries
and allowances.
(d) Award of Contracts: URADPEC shall, on the advice of the
Manager of URPMU, be responsible for approval of any single con-
tract valued at more than 050,000 in accordance with general
guidelines of the Borrower applicable to Government contracts.
(e) Interdepartmental Coordination: URADPEC through its mem-
bers would be responsible for the coordination at Ministry level
for those issues that may affect the implementation of the Project.


﻿B.   Upper Region Agricultural Development Project Management Unit
(URPMU)
1.   URPMU will be responsible to URADPEC for the day-to-day opera-
tions of the Project and will be managed by a Project Manager who
will report directly to the Chairman of URADPEC. In particular,
URPMU will be responsible for carrying out the following objectives:
(a) development of the Upper Region with a view to increasing
production of agriculture and raising the living standards of the
rural population;
(b) establishment of about 90 farm service centers that would
provide crucial services to farmers including extension and manage-
ment advice;
(c) improvement of animal health services including provi-
sion of vaccines;,
(d) development of small-scale ranching schemes;
(e) establishment of applied research and demonstration
units;
(f) operation of a pilot adult functional literacy program;
(g) establishment, through Ghana Broadcasting Corporation,
of a Regional radio broadcasting network;
(h) improvement of human nutrition;


﻿-43-
(i) training of staff;
(j) construction of dams, fish ponds and soil conservation
works, and the establishment of a special unit to be known as the
"Soil and Water Conservation Working Account" to construct the
works;
(k) provision of material assistance to villagers for build-
ing 700 village wells;
(1) construction, through Cotton Development Board, of two
ginneries and associated storage at Wa and Zvarungu, respectively;
(m) development of supporting infrastructure such as houses
and buildings; and
(n) any other activities to ensure the success of the Project.
2.   The main duties of URPMU shall be:
(a) the implementation of the Project within the Upper Region
following the policy guidelines of the URADPEC;
(b) the preparation of annual budgets and cash flows for ap-
proval by URADPEC. In particular URPMU shall submit to the Chairman
of the URADPEC monthly cash flow statements indicating any changes
in requirements for Government funds due to changes in project ex-
penditures. Unless informed to the contrary within five days of
dispatch of such statements to the Chairman of URADPEC, the Mana-
ger shall be authorized to make the proposed expenditures;


﻿(c) the recruitment of Project staff, in consultation, when
necessary with other Government departments, and for senior staff,
with approval of URADPEC;
(d) the advertisement, negotiations, calling for tenders,
and, after approval from URADPEC for those of more than 050,000,
conclusion of such contracts with persons and organizations ei-
ther inside or outside Ghana for the erection of buildings, the
construction of civil works and the supply of goods, services
and materials as may seem to be requisite for the proper dis-
charge of its duties;
(e) the operation of URPMU bank accounts; and
(f) the preparation of reimbursement claims against Project
expenditure, for submission to external financing agencies.
3.   URPMU shall be responsible for evaluating and planning new
agricultural projects for the Upper Region, and would be respon-
sible for advising the Irrigation Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture on the suitability of selected land for possible ir-
rigation schemes.
4.   URPMU shall establish a special heavy plant and equipment unit,
including contingent workshop facilities, to be known as the "Soil
and Water Conservation Working Account" (SWCA). The SWCA will have
a separate bank account under the control of URPMU, shall operate on
a commercial basis in respect to costs and operating charges, and
shall be free 1o hire operating staff at commercial wage rates, in-
cluding the payment of bonuses based on work output. SWCA will take


﻿SI45-
over the operations of the Department of Irrigation's workshops
at Zwarungu, and would, at cost, provide a maintenance service
for irrigation plant and equipment.
5.   The Manager of URPMU shall be an ex officio member of the Board
of the Upper Regional Development Corporation and vill be chairman
of Farmers Services Company (UR) Ltd.
6.   URPMU shall prepare quarterly and annual reports for simulta-
neous submission to URADPEC, Commissioners of Finance, Economic
Planning and Agriculture, the Bank and the Ministry of Overseas
Development of the United Kingdom.
7.   URPMU shall be delegated any additional duties and powers by
URADPEC to ensure the attainment of its objectives.
C.   Project Coordinating Committee
The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) shall be chaired by
the Upper Region Regional Administrative Officer and shall include
as members: URPMU Project Manager and Chief Administrative Officer;
General Manager, FSC; Upper Region Regional Directors of Social
Welfare and Community Development, and Education; Upper Region Re-
gional Managers of ADB, GBC, Ghana Highways Authority; representa-
tives of the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation and Secretariat
of the National Coordinating Committee of the Onchocerciasis Pro-
gram; Upper Region Representative of the Ministry of Economic Plan-
ning; and General Managers of URDC and CDB. The PCC shall meet
regularly to coordinate relevant regional operating departments
and agencies.


﻿- 46-
D.   Project Technical Committee
1. The Project Technical Committee (PTC) shall be chaired by
URPMU's Chief of Field Operations and shall include as members:
Ministry of Agriculture departmental heads from Accra, represen-
tatives of the Crop Research Institute and the Institute of Sta-
tistical, Social and Economic Research and URPMU's Planning and
Evaluation Officer. The PTC shall meet regularly to review tech-
nical aspects of the Project.
2.   Both the PCC and PTC shall report the results of their discus-
sions to URADPEC and URPMU. In the event of any failure of PCC or
PTC to resolve issues, the matter in dispute shall be referred to
URADPEC for final decision.


﻿-  47-
SCHEDULE 6
Financial Arrangements
1.   FSC shall be capitalized as follows:
(a) The proceeds of the Loan withdrawn to provide FSC with
vehicles and equipment, shall be provided by the Borrower to FSC,
in exchange for its shares.
(b) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the U.K. Loan
and otherwise, ensure that FSC is provided additional equity of at
least $3,500,000 equivalent, as required by FSC, in exchange for
its shares. This amount shall have been committed not later than
three months after the date of this Agreement and shall be payable
to FSC as called by FSC's Board of Directors.
2.   All proceeds of the Loan withdrawn for farm inputs to be
supplied through FSC, or otherwise for the benefit of FSC (with
the exception of amounts withdrawn for vehicles and equipment)
shall be lent by the Borrower to FSC, promptly upon withdrawal
from the Loan Account, on terms and conditions which shall at all
times be satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall include repay-
ment through equal semi-annual installments of principal and
interest combined over twenty-five years including seven years'
grace and interest at the rate of 8.85% per annum. The Borrower
and the Bank shall review the financial performance, capital struc-
ture and future program of FSC prior to the fifth year.


﻿-48-
3.   All payments to FSC pursuant to Section 4.06 of this Agree-
ment shall be in addition to the amounts referred to above.
4.   ADB. All proceeds of the Loan withdrawn for long-term loans
to ranchers and for medium-term (more than 18 months) loans to
farmers made through ADB shall be lent by the Borrower to ADB,
promptly upon withdrawal from the Loan Account, on terms and con-
ditions which shall at all times be satisfactory to the Bank and
which shall include repayment through equal semi-annual install-
ments of principal and interest combined over twenty-five years
including seven years' grace and interest at the rate of 8.85%
per annum.
5.   CDB. All proceeds of the Loan withdrawn for construction of
cotton ginneries and related storage facilities by CDB shall be
relent by the Borrower to CDB, promptly upon withdrawal from the
Loan Account, on terms and conditions which shall at all times be
satisfactory to the Bank and which shall include repayment over
fifteen years including five years' grace and interest at the
rate of 8.85% per annum.
6.   GBC. All proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect of the
design and installation of radio broadcasting facilities and the
operation thereof shall be provided to, or for the benefit of, GBC
by way of grant.
7.   Loans to Farmers Out of the Proceeds of the Loan. Loans by
ADB to ranchers for ranch development shall be repayable within
thirteen years, including five years' grace. Loans by ADB to ranch-
ers for working capital shall be repayable within eighteen months.


﻿849
Loans by ADB to farmers other than ranchers shall be repayable with-
in five years. Interest on such loans plus service charges, if any,
will be so fixed as to yield a minimum of 12% per annum. The cri-
teria for lending by ADB to farmers and ranchers and the other terms
and conditions of such loans shall at all times be satisfactory to
the Bank.


