Report No. 608-EGT
Egypt
Appraisal of
Tourah Cement Expansion Project
(In Two Volumes)
Volume 11: Annexes
December 30, 1974
Industrial Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published.
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept respon-
sibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



VOLMtE II
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Except where otherwise noted           All units are metric except
all figures are qoteod in              noted otherwise
mYPTIAN POUNDS (LE)
uS $ i             LE.3922             1 Metri6 Ton           - 1000 kilegrams (kg)
L1E 1             a US $2.55           1 Metric Ton           - 2p2O5 pouads
LE 1,000          - US $2,55o          1 Kilometer (km)         0.62 miles
1 Meter (a)           ' 39.3 inches
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRON!MS
Arab Nad         Arab Fund for Economic and Social Derelep mot
ARE              Arab Republic of Egypt
CEGA             Cairo Electricity aad Gas Adinistration
CSAD              Central State Audit Departast
MO               Egypt Cemet Office
0031             General Organization for Buildiag Materials asd Cermiss
GaaI             General Organization for Industrialization
OFP              General Organization for Petroleum
TCC, the Company T.urah Portland Cment Cmpan
TPD              (Metric) Toas Per Day
TPY              (Metric) Tons Per Tear
TCC FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - Jne 30           -- Prior to June 30, 1971
Ju3 1 - Decber            --1971 to 1972
Janury 1 - December 31 -1973 onwards



EYPT
APPRAISAL OF THE TO1JRAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
VOLUME II
ANNEXES
1         Technical Terms and Process Description
2-1       Public Sector Companies in Egypt
2-2       Organization Chart of Tourah Cement Company
2-3       Description of Existing Facilities
2-4       Historical Income Statements
2-5       Historical Balance Sheets
3         Market for Cement in Egypt
4-1       Raw Material Availability and Analysis
4-2       Utilities and Infrastructure
4-3       Detailed Project Description
4-4       Plant Layout
4-5       Flow Sheets
4-6       Ecology
4-7       Labor Force Projections and Training Requirements
4-8       Project Implementation Schedule
5-1       Capital Cost Estimate
5-2       Working Capital Requirements
5-3       Bank Financed Items
5-4       Disbursement Schedule
6-1       Revenue Projections
6-2       Production and Operating Cost Projections
6-3       Notes to Financial Projections
6-4       Income Statement Projections (with Expansion)
6-5       Source and Application of Funds Projections (with Expansion)
6-6       Balance Sheet Projections (with Expansion)
6-7       Income Statement Projections (without Expansion)
6-8       Balance Sheet Projections (without Expansion)
6-9       Break-Even Point Analysis
6-10      Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7-1       Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7-2       Risk Analysis
7-3       Foreign Exchange Savings
MAPS
IBRD 11196 - Quarries and Transportation Arrangements
IBRD 11195 - Location of Existing and Future Cement Plants






ANNEX 1
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
TECHNICAL TERMS AND PROCESS DESCRIPTION
A.   Technical Terms
Following is a list of the most common technical terms used in the
cement industry:
CEMENT              A hydraulic binding material in the form of an amorphous
powder consisting basically of tri- and bicalcium sili-
cates, tricalcium aluminates and tetracalcium alumino-
ferrites. Cement is produced by heating a mix of raw
materials (limestone, clay and sand) which transforms
into cement clinker through incomplete fusion at a
temperature of about 1450°C. Clinker is ground together
with small quantities of gypsum, which acts as a
retarder, controlling the setting time of the resulting
cement.
CEMENT TYPES        The most common cement types are:
Ordinary Portland Cement used in ordinary concrete
structures.
Rapid Hardening Cement used in structures requiring
early strength which is achieved by quick setting of
the cement.
Sulphate Resisting Cement used in structures exposed to
sea water or sulfurous materials.
Low Heat Cement used in structures of massive concrete
blocks (e.g., dams) to avoid overheating during setting.
Superfine Cement used for special structures requiring
high strengths and for prestressed concrete.
Portland Blast Furnace Cement prepared, in part, from
blast furnace slag and used in ordinary cement structures.
Oil Well Cement used in the construction of oil wells
(for lining).
Mixed Cement used for masonry work (mortar) and small
concrete structures.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
CLINKER              Clinkering is the process of heating to produce incomplete
fusion in the material heated. Less than one-third of
the material heated becomes fluid. The output of this
process is a rocky material called clinker. Cement-
Clinker produced from limestone, clay and sand is ground
with small additions of gypsum.
COMBUSTION AIR       Air which is used with the fuel to fire the kiln.
Primary Air, is the small amount of air injected into
the kiln together with fuel under high pressure.
Secondary Air, which constitutes the major part of
combustion air, is provided by fans and is heated up to
about 800°C in the cooler prior to flowing into the kiln.
CONTROL              A system to check and adjust the proportions and chemical
compositions of materials in the production flow by
taking samples, analyzing them, and appropriately adjusting
proportioning devices. In modern facilities this is
continuous and automated. Sampling is achieved in by-
passes, deviations from the main flow of materials.
COOLER               Vessel in which the hot clinker leaving the kiln is
cooled. The cooler is designed as heat exchanger heating
the secondary combustion air. Three major types of
coolers are in use:
Air Quenching Grate Cooler: a moving grate, slightly
inclined on which the clinker falls from the kiln to be
cooled by fans under the grate.
Planetary Cooler: this consists of 8 to 14 cylindrical
tubes (incorporated into the shell of the kiln) into
which the clinker to be cooled falls.
Rotary Cooler: (Internal Cooler) cylinder of same
construction as the rotary kiln and located under the
firing hood. It rotates on tires.
CRUSHING             Raw materials are normally quarried in the form of large
lumps and blocks and must be subjected to a reduction in
size before being further processed into a slurry or
raw meal which in turn is fed to the kiln. The reduction
of raw materials from a maximum admissible size to an
aggregate of a specified size is achieved in a crusher.
Major known types are:



ATNEX 1
Page 3
Roll crusher: particularly suited for moist material
liable to cause clogging.
Jaw crusher: particularly suited for large size lumps.
Impact crusher: such as hammer crusher and hammer mill
ideally suited for raw materials of cement manufacture
if these are not too moist or too abrasive. This type
allows drying during the crushing process.
Impeller crusher: overcomes impact resistance of
material.
Gyratory crusher: suitable for hard materials which
are not too moist (liable to clogging).
DUST COLLECTION      Dust pollution was traditionally a serious environmental
problem posed by cement plants as dust is generated at
nearly every stage of the production process, particularly
in the dry process technology. Furthermore, large
quantities of emitted dust also represented lost
production. Therefore the development of appropriate
filters has a long history in the production of cement.
Common filter types are:
Bag filter: A series of chambers with bags of nylon
or other material installed, which dedust the airstream
loaded with dust particles. A system of valves permits
reversal of the air stream in a particular chamber to
clean the bag and collect the accumulated dust. Only
suitable if temperatures of the airstream and particles
do not exceed 1000 to 15000.
Cyclone: This consists of an upper cylindrical portion
and a lower funnel shaped portion. The airstream enters
the cyclonic chamber tangentially at the upper portion.
Through centrifugal force, dust particles strike the
wall of the chamber and slide down to the discharge
opening of the funnel. The cleaned airstream leaves
the cyclone through a central outlet pipe.  Cyclone's
efficiency can be enhanced by arranging several units
in line (multicyclone batteries).
Gravel filter: A filter consisting of a series of
chambers filled with gravel. The dust-laden airstream
flows through the filter pockets thereby unloading the
dust particles. Cleaning of the filter is by reversal
of airstream and simultaneous stirring of the gravel
bed. This filter is suitable for temperatures above
500C and, therefore, often used for waste gases of
clinker cooler and kiln.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Electrostatic filter: Electrostatic dust precipitation
makes use of the forces generated in electrically charged
bodies while the dust laden gas passes between two
electrodes connected to high tension (30,000 to 80,000 V).
The positive electrode collects the dust particles which
have received a negative charge, thereby neutralizing
them. Dust must be removed from time to time from the
electrode. Optimum operation is achieved at temperatures
of 90* to 180°C and 15-30% moisture. Therefore, a
spraying tower for cooling the gas and moistening the
particles is often employed with the electrostatic
filter.
GRINDING             Raw Grinding:  Reduction of raw material size to specified
fineness by means of a mill.
Wet Process: The hard materials (limestone) are subjected
to preliminary crushing and soft materials (clay) are
stirred with water to form a slurry. Then both materials,
mixed in the correct proportions, are ground to fine
slurry.
Dry Process: Crushed raw materials are dried and ground
into fine raw meal powder.
Cement Grinding: The preparation of cement powder from
clinker and gypsum by means of a mill. The fineness of
grinding (Blaine value) has a significant influence on
the properties of the resulting cement.
Grindability of a material depends on its properties,
such as structure, cleavability, brittleness and hardness.
HOMOGENIZATION       The thorough and complete blending of various raw materials
to prepare a homogenous mixture. This can be achieved
in storage silos in which the pre-homogenized mix is
stirred and mixed by a blower (dry process). Wet process
plants use slurry tanks with installed rotating arms to
achieve homogenization. The tanks serve simultaneously
as storage facilities.
KILN                 A vessel in which the raw meal is burnt to be chemically
transformed into clinker (clinkering) at temperatures of
around 1450C. A Shaft kiln typically with a throughput
of between 50 and 250 metric tons per day, formerly
operated on a discontinuous basis using the dry process.
New developments, using pelletization techniques, operate
continuously. A Rotary kiln, a large cylindrical steel
tube inclined to the horizontal by 1 to 3 degrees, slowly
revolves, supported by tires and rollers. It is suitable



ANNEX 1
Page 5
for wet as well as dry processes and is typically used in
modern large-scale plants with throughputs of 1,500 to
4,000 metric tons per day.
MILL                 Grinding Mill:  The facility in which material is
ground.
Raw Mill: Grinds raw materials. The types employed in
modern cement plants require prior crushing of raw
materials. The most common type is the tube mill, a
horizontal cylindrical steel shell, equipped with lining
and grinding media (e.g., cast steel balls - Ball mill)
and which rotates at between 14 and 20 r.p.m. The
free fall (tumbling) of the grinding media provides for
the impact by which the material is ground. Suitable
both for wet and dry processes.
Compound Tube Mills: (or combination mills, compartment
mills) have two or more compartments, separated by
slotted diaphragms and filled with different types of
grinding media, to achieve successively finer grinding.
Closed Circuit Mill with centrifugal separator and
bucket elevators. The material ground in this tube
mill is conveyed in a steady flow by a bucket elevator
to a separator, within which oversize particles are
rejected by centrifugal action and returned to the mill-
feed.
Air-swept Mill: Tube mill or ring mill, the output of
which is continuously assorted by an air separator.
Oversize particles are returned to the millfeed.
Ring Mill: Grinding elements (balls or rollers) roll
under pressure on a circular path (the grinding ring).
Variations of this type are spring pressure or spring-
loaded mills, centrifugal ring ball mills, centrifugal
suspended roller mills, edge mills.
Cement Mill: (or Clinker Mill), a tube mill which refines
the mix of clinker and gypsum to cement powder. Compound
mills with centrifugal separator are commonly in use.
Wash Mill: A concrete tank with installed rotating arms
to break up and stir a soft raw material (clay). The
resulting slurry is screened to remove stones or other
impurities prior to grinding. It is used in dry as well
as wet process plants.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
PREHEATING SYSTEM   The heat exchange system to recover the caloric content
of the kiln exhaust gases with which to heat up the raw
meal.
Grate Preheater: the preheating system of the semi-dry
process, consisting of a traveling grate which moves
raw material pellets through a drying and a preheating
chamber.
Suspension Preheater: the preheating system of the dry
process consisting of one to four stages of simple or
twin cyclones on top of each other. The lower cyclones
are used as heat exchangers, the top cyclones as dust
collectors.
PREHOMOGENIZATION,
BLENDING PLANT       Storage facility which at the same time is used for
prehomogenization (blending) of raw material. Located
between the crusher and raw mill, it consists of two
storage areas in line, one of which being restored
with the deposit of the other for the purpose of pre-
homogenization.
QUARRY               Raw material deposit being exploited for production.
RAW MEAL            A homogeneous powder consisting of the ground raw mix.
It is used to feed the kiln to produce clinker (using
the dry process).
RAW SLURRY          Kiln-feed for the wet process kiln.
SAMPLING            Taking samples from the material during the process for
the purpose of control. In modern plants, this is
achieved by a by-pass sampling flow from the main
flow at critical points for continuous control.
B.   Process Description
I.  The General Cement Production Process
1.        Limestone, clay and sand are mined in their respective quarries.
The raw materials with a maximum specified block size (blasting) are reduced
to aggregates of pre-specified maximum dimensions in the crushing department
and stored; pre-homogenization is achieved through intermediate storage.
After proportioning according to weight and volume, the raw materials are
ground to a fine raw meal powder in the raw mill. The raw meal is homogenized
and then transported, via conveyors, to the kiln department. Within the kiln,
heat induces a clinkering process, in which an incomplete fusion of the raw
meal takes place. This clinker is then ground together with a small percentage
of gypsum to produce cement, which is shipped either in bulk or in bags.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
2.        Basically, three types of processes have been developed; the wet,
dry and semi-dry processes. These are described below:
II.   The Wet Process
3.        This process was developed with the rotary kilns as the first
continuous process for cement production. The raw materials, being wet in
the natural state, are mixed with water to create a slurry, whose titration
(quantity ratio) can be controlled easily. By means of pumps and ducts the
slurry is introduced into the kiln, where the clinkering takes place. Energy
consumption of the process is high (between 1350 to 2200 kcal/kg of clinker),
since more than a liter of water must be vaporized within the kiln per kg of
clinker.
4.        The main advantage of the process is its simplicity.  As a result,
operational control and maintenance are easy. However, for raw materials
with a natural humidity of below 10 to 15%, the dry or semi-dry process
usually operates more economically because of lower energy consumption,
even though investment costs for the wet process are normally lower than
for the comparable dry process equipment. The recent increases in fuel
prices have increased the upper limit of humidity for the dry process appli-
cability to about 15%.
III.   The Dry Process
5.        This process leaves the raw material in its natural state of
humidity up to the raw mill stage; within the raw mill the material is
ground and simultaneously dried to a specified limit. This dry raw meal
powder is homogenized mechanically or by means of blowers, then introduced
at the top stage of a preheating system. Working as a heat exchanger, the
system preheats the material by recovering the caloric value of the kiln
exhaust gases whose flow is counter to that of the material (Counter flow
system). Thus, part of the calcination takes place in the preheater, with
the final clinkerization taking place thereafter in the kiln. Within the
cooler, the secondary air recovers heat from the clinker, thereby cooling
it down.
6.        The intricate thermic equilibrium stage in the raw mill - preheater
- kiln - cooler section allows a total thermic consumption for the dry
process plants of only between 750 and 950 kcal/kg of clinker. Nevertheless,
the savings in fuel are, in part, outweighed by disadvantages such as a
more complicated process flow, which is sometimes difficult to control and
to maintain. Continuous and automated sampling for control is necessary.
Investment costs are usually somewhat higher than for the wet process, despite
the use of a short kiln (about half the length of the wet process kiln).
7.        The industry has developed several variations of the dry process,
using long or short kilns and cyclonic preheaters of one to four stages with
simple or twin/type cyclones within the stages. The decision as to the
type of dry process to be selected is a function of:



ANNEX 1
Page 8
(i) the supplier (some of the variations are patented);
(ii) the chemical components of the raw materials and fuel
(particularly their level of harmful alkalies and chlorides);
(iii) fuel economy; and
(iv) initial investment costs and operating costs, particularly
control and maintenance.
To illustrate the considerations involved in making a selection, three
characteristic variations are described below:
(a) Short kiln with four stage suspension preheater
8.        The most common variation uses a four stage suspension preheater
with short kiln. The preheater consists of three stages of heat exchanger
cyclones and one stage of twin dedusting cyclones. Fuel economy (only
around 800 kcal/kg of clinker) makes this variation very competitive. How-
ever, if high alkali and chloride levels prevail in the raw material and the
fuel, their vaporization absorbs valuable heat and reduces the effective
radiation of the flame. Within the preheater system the vapors, moving up
with the kiln exhaust gas, may condense around dust and could cause build-up
and choking in the lower parts of the preheater, which would require frequent
cleaning in such cases.
(b) Short kiln with preheating column
9.        To overcome the problem of clogging as well as to reduce investment
costs for the expensive preheater building, an alternative development uses
a short kiln with a preheating column. This column, a self contained,
vertical steel cylinder, acts as a heat exchanger and is therefore clad with
special linings and compartments. Its efficiency is only slightly lower
than the four stage suspension preheater, thermic consumption being about
875 kcal/kg of clinker.
(c) Long kiln with two stage preheating system
10.       This variation consists of a heat exchanger cyclone and twin
dedusting cyclones in the second stage, in combination with a long kiln.
Although the use of the long kiln permits evacuation of the harmful alkali
components with the dust in the electrofilter, the system lacks efficiency in
dissociating the calcium carbonates in the preheater, as the kiln exhaust
gases enter it at too low a temperature. The thermic consumption is about
950 kcal/kg of clinker. The higher investment costs for the long kiln (which
is about twice as long as a comparable short kiln) are partly offset by
lower costs for the preheater system.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
IV.   The Semi-Dry Process
11.       In this process the raw material is pelletized in a balling drum
by means of between 12 to 20% of water. Tne wet pellets with a diameter of
about 1.5 cm discharge from the drum directly into a hopper on the feed end
of a traveling grate preheater. The grate conveys the pellets through a
drying zone of about 300°C, then through a preheating zone of about 87500.
Kiln exhaust gases flow partly via a bypass through the drying zone, partly
directly through the preheating zone. After passing through the preheating
chamber, the hot pellets are stripped from the travelling grate and cascade
into the short kiln where they are heated further to clinkerize at about 145000.
The pelletized clinker is then cooled over a grate cooler.
12.       The thermic consumption of this process is about 850 kcal/kg of
clinker, thus comparable to dry process figures. However, the process is
more expensive both in initial investment and operating costs, particularly
control and maintenance costs, as it contains many moving parts. Its suit-
ability is confined to raw materials which lend themselves to pelletization.
Its advantage lies in the stability of the process, the accuracy with which
it can be adjusted and controlled, and the removal of harmful alkalies and
chlorides from the raw material in process. (This is achieved by collecting
the dust from the bypass in a cyclone dust collector.) The resulting cement
has, therefore, a lower alkali content than could have been achieved with
dry process equipment.
V.   Conclusions
13.       After these discussions it is clear that the basic difference is
between the wet process, on the one hand, and the dry and semi-dry processes,
on the other. For raw materials with a natural humidity of above 15%, the
fuel economy of the dry processes is generally offset, as these materials
have to be dried by substantial use of thermic energy. For a humidity
between 5 and 15% a careful evaluation of the technical and economic feasi-
bility of the various processes should lead to the right choice between wet
or dry (or semi-dry) process. This evaluation should take into account
chemical and physical properties of the materials as well as investment and
operating costs of feasible wet and dry process equipment. For materials
with a humidity below 5%, the dry (or semi dry) process is economical and
the decision on the type of dry process mainly depends on the chemistry of
the raw materials, the producer of equipment and, to a lesser extent, on
financial comparison between the processes.
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



ANNEX 1
EGYPT                                                                Chart 1
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
FLOW SHEET FOR CEMENT MANUFACTURF
,-SPPROCESS                                                                            DRY PROCESS
LIIE.                                               CLAY
CLAY                    ~~~~~~STONE                                          on'
OUARRY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O RR
MILLS R  ROA
AOOCA~~S CC CO      LIS MILE
!WET GRINDINCI                                                                        (IRY C,RI'DN,t& 
STORY HE ~~~~~AAILIEEIFESE
ROTRY                           'IPULVERIE                      KIL                          ROT4RY
|  K'.LN  j               ~~~~~OIL OR &41GASHFI                                                                 K.
T  COO-ER                                                      COOLER
PLANT                                                                                  PL NT
A,ROCESSNG E9PAENT
_|STRGEvAaITE



ANNEX 2-1
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CENENT EXPANSION PROJECT
PUBLIC SECTOR COMPANIES IN EGYPT
1.        In 1956, following the Suez War, the Government nationalized
foreign-owned companies and in early 1960's it extended its nationalization
to most large and medium-scale companies. Since then these companies are
subject to a well-defined central planning system. One of the major objec-
tives is to accelerate full-scale industrialization of key industries with
particular emphasis on economic independence; in part, import substitution
is one of the major goals.
2.        Public sector companies operate under the general guidance and
supervision of the respective ministries. In the case of public sector com-
panies of an industrial nature, this role is usually assumed by the Ministry
of Industry. In order to assist the ministries to execute the Government's
general policy and its follow-up in the sectors they supervise, in 1961, the
Presidential Decree No. 1899 created the General Organizations for different
sub-sectors. The organizations are holding companies which undertake within
the scope of their activity the participation in the development of the
national economy and assists the ministry in achieving the targets of the de-
velopment plan. Management of public sector companies is controlled by three
levels of government bodies: Ministries, the General Organizations and the
management of the Companies. Appendix I to this annex shows the hierarchical
structure of control and the position of TCC. Further details are given below.
Ministry of Industry
3.        The Ministry of Industry covers most segments of the industry widely
ranging from textiles, paper, fertilizer, chemicals, leather, cement, bricks,
glass, refractories, steel, automobiles, engineering goods, electrical goods,
minerals, sugar and oil; over 120 companies belong to this Ministry. These
companies are managed through seven "General Organizations" (Appendix I).
They are for (1) Food, (2) Textiles, (3) Chemicals, (4) Building materials,
(5) Engineering, (6) Metallurgical, and (7) Mining. In addition to these
seven General Organizations, there is the General Organization for Industrial-
ization (GOFI), which is responsible for conceiving, fostering and coordinating
expansion programs as well as establishing new plants in the industrial sector.
Unlike other General Organizations, GOFI basically serves staff functions.
4.        The Ministry of Industry is the highest authority over the public
sector companies under it; this ministry, in consultation with other relevant
ministries such as the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance, for-
mulates the budget for public sector companies under it, decides sales prices
and policies of their products and provides directives in various areas of



ANNEX 2 -1
Page 2
operation and management. This ministry also approves major projects in the
subsectors for which it is responsible and recommends them to the Central
Planning Committee.
General Organization for Industrialization (GOFI)
5.        As mentioned earlier, GOFI is one of the General Organizations under
the Ministry of Industry and its board is chaired by the Minister of Industries.
GOFI also provides its services to other ministries. Generally, GOFI, in col-
laboration with various companies and their General Organizations, identifies
possible projects, formulates project preparation and implementation programs
and tries to secure financing. A formal feasibility study is then prepared
by GOFI in consultation with the General Organization and the company concerned
and it undertakes the responsibility to clear the proposed project through
the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Planning. The latter ministry
aggregates the proposals into national plans for submission to the Central
Planning Committee, a cabinet branch, which in turn after consideration submits
the national plan for approval by the Parliament. In the case of TCC, since
the project is primarily an expansion of the existing facilities, the role of
GOFI in the project preparation is rather limited, although the project is
approved by GOFI. The Tourah expansion project has gone through the above
mentioned process and has been included in the approved National Plan.
6.        GOFI also plays an important role in the project execution stage,
since it is responsible for concluding all necessary foreign supply contracts
on behalf of the companies. GOFI is responsible for the preparation of tender
documents, inviting tenders from various suppliers, bid evaluation with the
assistance of the company concerned, contract negotiation and signing of con-
tracts. Once the contracts are signed, they are assigned to the company con-
cerned which is the principal organization responsible for project implemen-
tation. In cases where there are disputes between the company and the supplier,
GOFI provides assistance in solving the disputes. When the project is of key
national importance, GOFI also monitors the progress of the project and acts
as advisor for proper implementation.
General Organizations
7.        The General Organization, which is a holding company for all enter-
prises under it, is an executing agency of the Ministry concerned, for the
execution of the State's general policy and its subsequent follow-up. General
Organizations are divided on a sectoral basis and each General Organization
is responsible for the performance of the sector it supervises. It deals with
all matters of its sector as a whole and is thus involved in major facility
planning decisions and supervision of company operations. General Organiza-
tions are authorized, without interference with the executive affairs of the
subordinate company, (i) to lay the targets for production, exports, market-
ing, investment, profitability and labor and to follow-up the company's
achievements of these targets; (ii) to lay general plans to develop new products,
improve quality, increase efficiency and utilize facilities in a sound manner;



ANNEX 2-1
Page 3
(iii) to coordinate among the companies to increase sector efficiency and to
solve any disputes which may arise among subordinate companies; and (iv) to
evaluate the functioning of the subordinate companies in accordance with the
set standards and to recommend improvements wherever necessary.
8.        General Organizations assist the subordinate companies in surmounting
the difficulties and problems of general nature which obstruct the achievement
of their targets. They have experienced management experts, engineers, tech-
nicians and other specialists to perform those services including research and
development, which the individual companies belonging to them cannot be effi-
ciently supported by themselves. Therefore, the General Organizations do play
a significant role, though advisory in nature, in the project preparation and
implementation as well as plant operations of subordinate companies.
9.        General Organizations, with the approval of the appropiate ministry,
have the right to the following matters:
Wi) Ratification of the financial statements of subordinate companies
and distribution of their profits within the legal stipulations;
(ii) Modification of the statutes of subordinate companies;
(iii) Liquidating or dissolving of companies;
(iv) Increase or decrease of share capital of companies;
(v) Authorizing companies to utilize assets for purposes other than
those originally planned for;
(vi) Establishing new companies, merging and consolidating of two or
more subordinate companies and dividing a company into two or
more companies;
(vii) Guaranteeing loans of subordinate companies; and
(viii)  Borrowing from different agencies or issuing bonds, when sanc-
tioned by the Council of Ministers.
10.       In summary, each General Organization serves both line and staff func-
tions. Under the line function, it oversees the implementation of State
policies and is responsible for subsequent follow-up to ensure that these
policies are properly carried out, thus serving as the connecting link between
the policy makers and the operating units, thus reducing somewhat the detailed
control that the ministries concerned have traditionally exercised over the
member companies. This type of organizational structure also allows for more
efficient sector planning and development as well as economies in the alloca-
tion of resources. Under the staff function, each General Organization works
closely with GOFI and the company concerned in formulating, preparing and im-
plementing major capital projects. Each General Organization is also respon-
sible for solving problems related to its sector as a whole; and it provides
general staff support to its subsidiaries whenever required.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 4
11.       The General Organization's capital consists of:  (a) the State's
share in the capital of the companies belonging to the Organization; and (b)
the funds which the State appropriates to the Organizations. Each General
Organization receives a portion of each subordinate company's profits which
is stipulated by the law for distribution (see Annex 2-4), as management fee.
This fee is mostly used to meet its operating costs, which consist mainly of
wages and salaries and administrative costs. It also receives a major portion
of each company's profits as dividends but it turns these funds over to the
Treasury. The Government allocates funds to General Organizations for speci-
fic purposes. The Organizations can also contract loans if required. For
its services and activities rendered to others, they receive funds from these
services.
General Organization for Building Materials and Ceramics (GOBM)
12.       GOBM is one of the General Organizations established in 1961.  It
was made a legal holding company in 1971 incorporating a group of manufactur-
ing companies covering the following activities: the cement industry, pipe
and asbestos cement products, the glass industry, the pottery and porcelain
industry, the ceramics and refractories industry, sand-lime bricks, gypsum and
the lime industry, marble and mineral products, and vinyl flooring products.
There are 13 manufacturing companies under GOBM as shown below:
Company Name                     Established in             Main Products
(year)
1.  Tourah Portland Cement Co.              1927         Ordinary cement, rapid
hardening cement, mixed
cement, etc.
2.  Helwan Portland Cement Co.              1929         Ordinary cement, rapid
hardening cement, mixed
cement, white cement, etc.
3.  Alexandria Portland Cement Co.          1948         Ordinary cement, rapid
hardening cement, mixed
cement, etc.
4.  The National Cement Co.                 1956         Slag cement.
5.  The Egyptian Company for Pipe           1931         Asbestos, cement pipes
and Cement Products (SIEGWART)                       and sheets, concrete
lighting poles, concrete
sleepers and certain
rubber products.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 5
Company Name                 Established in         Main Products
(year)
6.  El Nasr Glass and Crystal Co.           1932         Various types of glass
sheets, glassware, and
polyester chairs and
tables.
7.  The General Company for Ceramics        1955         Table ware, sanitary
and Porcelain Products                               articles and wall tiles.
8.  El Nasr Company for the Production    1956           Refractory materials,
of Refractories and Pottery                          ordinary building bricks,
(Sornaga)                                            pottery and ceramic prod-
ucts and lining brakes.
9.  Egyptian Company for Refractories       1962         Refractory bricks, tubs
for laboratories, acid-
resisting ceramic floor-
ing, white plaster and
porcelain electric in-
sulators.
10. The Cairo Sand Brick Co.                1910         Various types of sand
and clay bricks, lime,
and marble products.
11.  The General Company for                1957         Crushed blast stones,
Mineral Wealth                                      processed stone, processed
marble blocks, and marble
furniture.
12.  The Egyptian Gypsum, Marble            1908         Different varieties of
and Quarries Co.                                    industrial and ornamental
stones, feldspar, quartz,
dolomite, glass sand, lime-
stone, bentonite, etc.
13.  Canaltex Company                       n.a.         Vinyl flooring and
ItIsmalon" flooring.
n.a.  =  Not available.
13.       Apart from the above mentioned production units, the Egyptian Cement
Office (ECO) is also under GOBM. The Office is responsible for the marketing
of different types of cements according to an established program. This Office
also distributes Egyptian cement in the local and foreign markets. Further
details of ECO are given in Annex 3.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 6
14.       GOBM supervises the activities of all the aforementioned companies,
coordinates their activities and plans for their proper functioning. GOBM is
also responsible for the development of the sectors it supervises. The total
invested capital of GOBM's subsidiary companies is LE 126.3 million (US$332.1
million), and the aggregate value of their production during 1973 was LE 44.1
million (US$112.5 million). Total exports in 1973 of all the affiliated com-
panies of GOBM amounted to about LE 6 million (13.6% of their net sales) com-
pared with the total imports of spare parts and raw materials of about LE 7.1
million. The total number of employees under GOBM, including the employees
in its subordinate companies, is about 26,000. The following table summarizes
the consolidated data of GOBM for the five-year period, 1968/69-1973:
GOBM: Summary Data /1
1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72__     1973
Number of Companies                         10        12        13        13         13
Number of Employees (1,000 persons)         18        21        23        24         26
Total Capital Employed (LE million)    75.0          91.3    102.4    116.0       126.3
Total Share Capital (LE million)           10.7      11.8     12.1      12.1       12.1
Net Sales (LE million)                     27.3      32.9     38.4      62.0       44.3
Export Sales (LE million)                   5.1       4.0      5.1       7.7         6.0
Imports (Raw Materials and Spares)
(LE million)                          4.5       5.2       7.3      10.3        7.1
/1   GOBM, like all other General Organizations, was made a legal holding com-
pany only in 1971 and does not yet publish consolidated financial state-
ments. It plans to begin consolidated accounting in the near future.
/2   The fiscal year before 1972 covered the period July 1-June 30.  Beginning
with 1972, the fiscal year was changed to coincide with the calendar year
and, therefore, 1971/72 figures cover an 18-month period.
15.       GOBM reports directly to the Ministry of Industry.  Its Board of
Directors consists of the Chairman, Eng. Ahmed Aly Shaker; the General Manager;
the Chairmen of all 13 affiliated manufacturing companies; and the General
Manager of ECO. The organizational chart given in Appendix I shows the main
departments. The Organization is divided into three main divisions: (1)
Technical and Economic Affairs; (2) Financial and Administrative Affairs; and
(3) Development Center.
16.       The Technical and Economic Affairs Division deals with the following
functions: (i) participation with affiliated companies in the preparation of
the expansion of existing facilities as well as major replacement and renewal
projects; (ii) coordination between the companies and GOFI with respect to for-
mulation and preparation of new projects; (iii) participation in the financial,
economic and commercial matters of the companies' activities; (iv) reviewing
and commenting on the decisions taken by the Boards of Directors of the affil-
iated companies in accordance with the law; (v) assisting the companies in
soiving their problems with the competent authorities, especially with the
Ministry of Industry and GOFI; and (vi) preparation for general meeting of
GOBM.



AiNEX 2 1
Page 7
17.       The Financial and Administrative Affairs Division deals mainly with:
(i) participation with the affiliated companies in administrative matters,
such as preparation of organizational charts for the companies, training sys-
tems, public relations, advertisements, international affairs, etc.; (ii) par-
ticipation in financial studies, improvements in the profitability of the com-
panies, and arranging for financing when required; (iii) checking personnel
affairs, such as promotions, increments, transfers, incentive systems, etc.;
and (iv) participation, in collaboration with the Technical and Economic
Affairs Division, in the preparation of the companies' planning budgets and
the financial accounts.
18.       The Development Centre is primarily responsible for the development
of the industry as a whole in which the affiliated companies' activities are
concentrated. This includes keeping pace with the most up-to-date technolo-
gies available in the world to improve the technical base of the companies,
introducing new processes and products, solving major technical problems of
affiliated companies and controlling the quality of the products of the com-
panies.
19.       GOBM has competent and experienced management experts, engineers,
and other specialists to provide general staff support to its subsidiary
companies. The present Chairman of GOBM was the Chairman of the Tourah Cement
Company (TCC) until 1973. In the case of the Tourah Cement Expansion Project,
GOBM has played an important role in project preparation. It will also play
a key role in project implementation, as advisor to TCC, and subsequent opera-
tion of the plant. This organization is considered competent to perform such
functions.
Tourah Cement Company (TCC)
20.       This is the oldest and largest cement company in the country.  This
was established in 1927 as a private joint stock company (with Swiss and
Egyptian private capital) with a share capital of LE 200,000, and started
production in 1929. In 1961 this company, along with other major companies
in Egypt, was nationalized. With various expansion programs, by 1967, the
production capacity of this company was increased from the original 100,000
TPY to 1.4 million TPY; due to aging of some of the old facilities, the pres-
ent rated capacity of this plant is about 1.35 million TPY. The present share
capital of the company is LE 2,230,608, which is wholly owned by GOBM and fully
paid in.
21.       The Board of Directors of the Company, which meets once every month,
consists of 9 members: the chairman, four senior officers and four labor re-
presentatives of the Company. The five senior management members of the Com-
pany are appointed by the President of the Republic and the four labor repre-
sentatives are elected for a period of 3 years. Members are always eligible
for re-election. The present chairman of the Company, Eng. Mohamed Haguib
Abdel Hady, who has been with the Company for the last 20 years, was appointed
in 1973 when the previous chairman was appointed chairman of GOBM. Almost all



ANNEX 2-1
Page 8
the senior management staff of the Company have been with the Company for more
than 10 years. The Company management is considered satisfactory and labor
relations appear to be good.
22.       The Company is organized along functional lines (see Annex 2-2 for
details). The management controls the day-to-day operation of the Company,
within the constraints defined by the nationalization laws of 1961 and subse-
quent legislation. As a profit center the Company is expected to survive on
its own financially, but it has little or no direct control over the unit
costs or sources of its inputs. Selling prices are determined on a cost-plus
basis and are mutually agreed upon by all the companies in this subsector,
the GOBM and the Ministry of Industry, usually at a margin of about 25% over
costs. The Company has only one customer--the Egyptian Cement Office which
is the agency responsible for procurement and distribution of cement inside
and outside the country. Investment decisions and the flow of funds of the
Company are defined by law and illustrate the degree to which the Government
participates directly in major decisions. The Company submits its budget
forecasts and year-end accounts to GOBM for supervision and auditing. The
Company can utilize its depreciation reserves and 10-15% of its net profit
at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors, but any proposal for
expansion must be cleared by GOBM, GOFI and ultimately by the Ministry of
Industry and the Ministry of Planning.
Industrial Projects Department
September 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GENERAL ORGANIZATION FOR
BUILDING MATERIALS AND CERAMICS
G-1.1 CI-
El                                     I I 
RY
t(y ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     w 9  m_97r4rlGe



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF TOURAH PORTLAND CFMFNT COMPANY
G7.ENERAL RANIZ.' ATION FORtC
| U L DING MATEPALS AN CERAMICS 
BOARD GE
CHAIRMANEO
l ~~~~ _
g PLAND   1  CMAG
| ORGANIZATION |  |  DEPARTMFNCTA
TRAINING
IN-LSTRI  P1ROJECTS SEPAST.-O                            UAR
UL  lOlA 19
SC,AT   8938 DOEIS



ANNEX 2-3
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING FACILITIES
1.        The plant of TCC is located near the town of Tourah-El-Asmant about
15 km south of Cairo on the east bank of the river Nile and is about 25 m above
sea level. It is well connected by road transport (Highway Cairo-Helwan), rail
transport (Railway Cairo-Helwan), and inland water transport (600 m from the
Nile's east bank). The plant, spread out on an area of about 25 ha, consists
of two sections, referred to as the "Old Plant" and the "New Plant" (see layout
as shown in Annex 4-4), which have respective nominal capacities of 1,650 TPD
and 2,150 TPD of clinker. This is equivalent to a total production capacity
of about 1.35 million TPY of finished cement under the current production
program. TCC has leased the areas west and south of the plant, where the
limestone, clay and sand quarries are located. (See Map IBRD 11196). TCC
is currently in the process of establishing a lime factory close to the lime-
stone quarry, which is planned to produce about 90,000 TPY of lime by 1978.
TCC also owns a foundry, located at Maassarah, 3 km south of Tourah, which
produces most of TCC's required iron castings including spare parts, grinding
media, mill plates, etc. The existing principal facilities of the TCC plant
are as follows:
A.   Quarries and Raw Material Transport
Limestone
2.        Details of the limestone deposit of TCC are given in Annex 4-1.  The
quarry contains a workshop for the equipment used to exploit the deposit, such
as drills, shovels, loaders, bulldozers and lorries. Some of the equipment,
particularly the drilling equipment, is very old and no longer suited to the
rough and dusty quarry conditions. The project will provide replacement for
some of the existing equipment. The quarry contains two crushers (combined
nominal capactiy of 450 TPD) to reduce the size of the quarried material. One
of these machines (200 t/h capacity from 1956) needs replacement as it can no
longer be operated without maintenance problems. The project will provide a
new crusher of 500 t/h capacity to replace the existing machine and to provide
for the expansion. The crushed material is transported by an existing belt
conveyor system (nominal capacity 500 t/h, installed in 1967) to an intermediate
stockpile of 30,000 t and from there to the plant. The stockpile extraction
system (vibrating feeders) is currently unable to draw more than 10,000 t from
the stockpile as it was calculated under a wrong reposing angle assumption
(70° instead of 45°). The project will provide a rectification of this problem.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 2
Clay
3.        Details of the clay deposit are contained in Annex 4-1.  The clay
is currently trucked to the plant, after having been extracted by shovels.
A project is underway to transport the clay from a new clay crusher within
the quarry via the conveyor belt system to the plant. This project has been
delayed by several months because of problems with some foundations in diffi-
cult soil conditions (clay). The system is, however, scheduled to be in
operation by the end of 1974.
Sand
4.        A sand quarry is located between the clay quarry and plant.  The
sand is quarried by loaders and trucked to the plant.
Gypsum
5.        A gypsum quarry is operated about 20 km from the plant site; the
material, a thin overburden, is quarried by loaders and hauled to the plant
by dump trucks.
B.   The Plant
General
6.        Construction of the first facilities of the factory started in 1927
with production start-up in 1929. Since then, many alterations, additions and
modifications have been made. Table 1 of this Annex shows existing equipment
and their characteristics as well as modifications and expansions under the
Project.
Raw Meal Preparation
7.        Both existing "old" and "new" plants use the wet process.  They are
fed by the same slurry prepared in two washmills (clay only, 100 t/h each)
stored in four clay slurry basins (1,000 m3 each) and then ground in five raw
mills (total capacity 335 t/h) together with limestone, to form a white slurry.
The white slurry is stored and homogenized in two slurry basins with a total
capacity of 7,000 m3. From here it is either fed to the old or the new plant.
Old Plant
8.        The old plant contains four kilns ranging from 300 to 600 TPD of
clinker capacity and with a total capacity of 1,650 TPD of clinker. Two started
operation in 1929, one in 1935, and another in 1948. All kilns have been main-
tained very well and operate at high efficiency. Kilns I and II are currently
being equipped with electrostatic filters, whereas existing electrostatic filters
of Kilns II and IV are being modernized by the Polish Foreign Trade Company for



Electrical Equipment Ltd. in cooperation withi Walter & Cie of tile Federal
Republic of Germany. These undertakings will reduce dust pollution at Tourah
considerably and will increase production of these kilns by reintroduction of
the retained dust. The clinker produced at the old plant can directly be fed
into one of the four cement mills or into the clinker storage vard (35,f0J0
tons) of the old plant.
9.        The cement mill department contains four tube mills (3 compartments,
open circuit for eacih) ranging from 12 to 40 t/h throughput capacity with a
total capacity of 69 t/h. Two small and old mills (12 t/h, 1932; 15 t/h, 1936)
are to be replaced under the expansion program by one mill of 40 t/h. The
other two are in good condition and are presently being equipped witht electro-
static filters. The clinker is ground together witlh gypsum and sometimes with
sand or slag (for mixed cement). These raw materials are stored in the appro-
priate storage yards of the old plant. Gypsum is crushed by a crusher of 15
t/h capacity prior to being fed to the mills.
10.       The cement produced in the mill departmaent of the old plant is storec
in a battery of 28 silos with a capacity of 315 tons each, or in one large cy-
lindrical silo of 13,000 tons which gives the old plant a total storage capa-
city of about 22,000 tons of finished cemenit. The old plant comprises a
packing plant with four packing machines (total capacity, 255 t/h). Bags can
be loaded onto trucks or railcars via portable belt conveyors.  The project
will provide additional storing and packing facilities on the Nile (Nile di-
spatch) to take care of increased output of mixed cement from the new cement
mil .
New Plant
11.       The production in the new plant is based on two kilns, one from 1956
with a nominal capacity of 750 TPD, and the other one from 1967 with a nominal
capacity of 1,400 TPD of clinker output. The latter was originally designed
for 1,600 TPD but created substantial difficulties and problems when started
up. A rnaiii reason is the air quenching cooler which was apparently under-
designed. (All other kilns at TCC have planetary coolers or internal coolers
of sufficient capacity). The supplier (Five Lille Cail) finally reduced the
price of the installation and the new nominal capacity was agreed upon. A
possible future conversion of this kiln to the dry process tecinology could
improve its output substantially, as a new cooler would be required anyway.
This kiln also has problems with its installed electrostatic precipitator.
The project envisages modifying or replacing this filter to bring the dust
control for the kiln back to acceptable standards.
12.       Clinker transport (Drag chain system, 165 t/h) and gypsum crusher
(25 t/h, frovq 1956) in the new plant both need substantial miaintenance and
repair. The project will replace both with new equipment adequate for
requirements of existing plant and expansion.



ANINEX 2-3
Page 4
13.       Cement is ground in four ball mills of 40 t/h throughput capacity
each, which were installed in 1956, 1962 and 1967 (2) respectively. One has
two compartments and closed circuit, the other three have three compartments
each and open circuit. All are equipped with electrostatic filters.
14.       Finished cement is stored in one of five cylindrical concrete silos
with a total capacity of 20,500 t and packed into bags by one of five rotary
packing machines with a total capacity of 440 t/h. Bags are loaded onto trucks
via portable belt conveyors.  A small bulk loading facility is provided.  The
project will increase these loading facilities according to increased output.
C.   1Iiscellaneous Departments and Project's Power Supply
15.       One-third of the Company's present power consumption (120 million
kWh) is provided by a power station within the plant, operating five boilers
with steam power generators of a capacity of 11,800 kW, and five gas generators
driving gas turbines with a capacity of 3,000 kW. The remainder of the power
requirements is drawn from the Cairo grid. Although the power plant runs
problem-free, it requires a Iiigh amount of maintenance expenses. Thus, the
generated power is more expensive than the purchased power.  TCC will, there-
fore, in the context of the project, install a substation of 30 MVA capacity
to draw adequate power from the grid. Nevertheless, the substation will be
kept operational as a standby unit in case of a failure in the public grid.
Production of Paper Sacks
16.       TCC operates a modern plant producing paper sacks required for the
bagging of cement. It also sells paper sacks to other cement companies, to
lime factories and fertilizer plants. Annual output of the plant is 32 mil-
lion bags.
Foundry
17.       TCC operates a foundry 3 klm soutn of Tourah, which produces castings
for spare parts, grinding media, mill plates and other items, whlich the plant
requires for operation. The foundry also sells castings to other customers
locally. The project includes some equipment for the modernization of the
foundry.
Workshops
18.       TCC mechanical and electrical workshops are well run.  They provide
maintenance and repair for the whole plant, and assist in the erection and
installation of new projects. The expansion project includes substantial
equipm,ent for the modernization and expansioni of these workshops.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 5
Lime Plant
19.       TCC currently is executing a project for the installation of a new
lime plant. The plant is located in the limestone quarry and is to be con-
structed in two phases. Phase I will provide production capacity of 20,000
TPY of quick lime and is scheduled to start operations in early 1975. Phase
II will add another 70,000 TPY capacity of quick lime and is scheduled to
start production in 1976. The project execution was hampered earlier this
year due to delays in delivery of the Polish equipment. The start-up dates
are already revised to take these delays into account.
Training
20.       TCC operates a new training center, which not only trains TCC staff
but also staff from other cement factories in Egypt and other Arab countries.
The training offered in this center is described in more detail in Annex 4-7.
Consultants' Services
21.       TCC staff of the Research and Industrial Organization Department
provide consultants' services for cement and lime plant projects within the
Arab world. At present TCC staff act as consultants for the erection and
start-up of a cement factory in Homs, Arab Republic of Libya. This factory
is designed to produce 300,000 TPY of cement and will operate on the dry
process (four-stage suspension preheater type).
Miscellaneous
22.       TCC operates various services departments, such as a staff canteen,
staff residences and recreational facilities, an ice factory, a water-treatment
plant, a well-equipped fire fighting department, and a security department.
Industrial Projects Department
September 1974



AODNOX 2-3
Table S
TISOdAH C1411T? EXPddbd PROJECT
Soe-dfitocttaof E-ntl,, and Scooted M.a    K.,hai-eey c-t Stora.ge F-acitte-
meat               ta~~~~r cad                   Nam  of                                          Yea  ad           Capacity               crte
Dri'liog rigs (2                   do-to                 Die-l0.e                                    S/
326 deep
Srilliao  rig  (1)                 dales Copo             drot                             0         0>..
2/  PilidIr rtgs  S                          -               opese   d                                                           l           Pat aterde
Di-1                                                      2.3~nc  23e
D-p-(7)                   -i. ~b,i            Dies. -                                          -                 Pm
BR   d.                                                                             2~~ disel-                       hpO
FutF   L  3ih eer                        cc.                    b,0.p0.0.                            na
a    Iwdidacer                      ~       ~     ~~~~~-id  Dtdbe end                 -                              Pt> O
tractor locOereF. L.                                   mcg.      m              nc.           11t
Mt-i.l H-d                                     iase -i lg
Li-~~-  ~~..kpil               Coil            ltt   so.da  nabeer             1W6           5  t-DOY                            1 sea.
f-d.;,= :ti..               10,000 -t-I         3510 odd000 st
cOnole    Diceeto   transport   dI             t            dtw     ependd teds             I26         30C, t/h              136tS           ab      eiid                   010 t/4
1)  -sstseet    pile                                 dm0fe;ntaig                     16          313,326),0
1,                                   ::~~~~~~~~eae  eotaoia                    I00>  cotal32I
t)Cla ,,    dpl  is p- et                                                                                 ,7b1,
dado eo.Slo              ~~~~F. I. d1th         do      lt    aros3 6t,'h
lOo55t/h                                                                  da5ta/h
Raepstd N.   1 2. 1.iteidob                                                                            I tO
No.A-     S                     '~F. SR~                                            1956        i00 t/3                                                       7p 00
do--.     -.iP                            '                                            0967        t  t/t
ti    N.or .s3rg           F. I. OStidthi           t    l-.713                                 dOd t/3                                                         7323D ,/S
lltsOer braisePll,   .1r                                                                i96                /dPit                                                               /
0102                                 '~~~~~~~1 W,  l..,    1          1296         dLOO t/d)01Flt
do  3             F. 1. CdOr             2et,pStesrtromerU035                        2,0 t?)                                                             575Ol
lliamr trasaport   951 t P1.5                                             did' i16f..d3c"O olpd5eD  
s) Olisler etarage              s.cH-. flats13 Peedt3P,C                                                                            Old pleat                )7   1
Syen  sooile                                              -                        --0,750st,1,
o    od..atsionosco3±nePtloe:             ..                                                                                 36 i/
ded   N toaiA               F. L.13,,5th          31,50-
9   Seer m5  drlssib       ISko-                                                                    9L         22tt'~
No.difi-tisld1 301t6hLdT.Sl.ld 2l1o
No.                         5" t              -~ -;  l   d                 i 133         12/h                                                                7   t1
toF.St L.                                                        iL          22s/ot
No. Id    1. 1.  mldtt             cocesteets,obase             00562        AO/   .t Oc                                                         32sS
10.01                           3       '      , oyeo~        ~ ~~~ 1962     500 t/h                               -7
to. 12                                     3       ,                        19067       ilsI/o hspa
,-i) Ceeee  storage old plea                                                                              2Nc31i    8,t20 t
1.3000   13,d0d0
oeo pSoet                                                     ~~~~~~~ ~~~2.1210    2,300t
pi~~~~~~,                                                          6-14, ~~~~~~~~9t~ t                                    6,2
lopeaeOoo:   3scs  mica                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3032060 t  r. twit elidp-ete
Perkteg Ne-Ire  to..1              3. L, SedO                                                          1 tde
N..11)0 5/h
*    Nc.                                                                                 130 s/h
Na. 3                                             1916        ~~~~~~~110  /i                                                     ,9;t
No. 0                                               ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19567   132 tde
to.                                                                    I '10        t    /
Nt. 3                                               110~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~97  101' tO
wccac,(2 pcocer)                                                                                                    201260t/n 
o   ile despeth   2 renre-oldd
12          tiNe  roeooq  Stasios                                                                                       1.28m3/-e                           Ta be repoaed N   e                  0~
a  xt -lr:  poop                                                                                                       Sa0, Sns3/
o   dodlcte  mew capact to be rz--wd coer the pro eon
dagac 1971



IMIIEX 2-4
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
HISTORICAL INCOME STATEMENTS-
(in 000 LE)
1969/70      1970/71        1971/72-2/       1973
(18 months)
Net Cement Sales (Tons)              1,206,510    1,337,019       1,983,935        1,217,678
Net Sale  Cement                         6,023         5,981          9,673            6,819
Others-/                                 593           676          1,067              834
Total Net Sales                        6,616         6,657         10,740            7,653
Cost of Goods Sold:
Materials, Utilities & Supplies,/        3,069         3,162          5,267            3,587
Labor6,                                    263           319            568              440
Maintenance Cost./                       1,3283                       1925             1,272
Gross Profit                             1,894         1,893          2,980            2,354
Operating Expenses:
Administrative Sales Expenses8/            154           239            375              273
Depreciation9-                             862           769            961              851
Other!P0/                                  289           204            294              156
Operating Profit                           589           681          1,350            1,074
Other Income.UL                            300           230            366              221
Financial ChargesL2/                       173           109            119               65
Net Profit Before Taxes                    716           802          1,597            1,230
Taxe sL3/                                   85            90            167              200
Profit After Taxes                         631           712          1,430            1,030
Distribution of Profits-4/
Reserves 25%                               158           178            358              258
Others                                      12            13            139              -
Surplus To:
Workers                                    106           120            214              177
GOBM (share)                               320           360            642              529
GOMB (supervision)                          35            41             77               66
lj Fiscal year ended June 30 through 1971. Changed to December 31 from 1972 onward.
2/  For 18 months ended December 31, 1972.  All prior years ended on June 30.
3/ Net sales of cement products net of inventory changes.
4/ Includes sales of cement bags, revenue from foundry and workshop operations and
revenue from services rendered.
5/  Cost of direct materials, utilities and supplies for production.
6/ Direct labor cost including social taxes.
7/ Maintenance materials and labor.
8/ Administrative costs including wages and salaries of administrative personnel.
l/ This includes depreciation of items which have no book value. According to law
50% of normal depreciation of these items is applied and this is charged to reserves
in the Balance Sheet.
10/ This includes expenses such as estate taxes, donations, rents, capital loans, etc.
11/ Revenue from Bonds, interest on credits and sundry revenues.
12/ Interest charges on bank overdrafts and foreign credits.
13/ 37.2% of taxable profit.  No tax is levied on the  amount distributed to workers and
GOBM.
14/ Details of distribution of Profit are given in page 2 of this Annex.



ANNEX 2-4
Page 2
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF PROFITS
In ARE companies in which Government is a shareholder much distribute
their profits according to a formula prescribed by the law. The formula
described below applies to both companies in which the Government is the
sole shareholder (such as Tourah Cement Company) and to companies with mixed
public/private ownership. The actual distribution of profit of Tourah Cement
Company for the past four years is given below.
Distribution of Profit~s
(in 000 LE)
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72   1973
(18 months)
A.  Net Profit after taxes (A)                     631.1    712.3   1429.8   1030.2
B. To Company's Equity Account:
1.  Statutory Reserves /A  (5% of A)           31.6     35.6      71.5     51.5
2.  Reserve for Purchase of Government
Bonds L2 (5% of A)                         31.6     35.6     71.5      51.5
3. Reserve for increase    replacement
cost of fixed assets - (5% of A)          31.5      35.6     71.5      51.5
4.  Reserve for Consolidation /  (10% of A)  63.1       71.2    143.0    103.1
5.  Other Reserves L5                          11.9     12.9    139.9       0.7
Total Retained by the Company (B)        169.7    190.9    497.3    258.3
C. Surplus for Distribution (C)=(A)-(B)            461.4    521.4    932.5    771.9
D.  First Distribution (5% of share capital)(D)  111.5    111.5    167.3    111.5
E.  Balance (E)<(C)-(D)                            349.9    409.9    765.2    660.4
F. Payments to GOBM for its service
(10% of E)                                    35.0      41.0     76.5      66.o
G. Total Available for distribution to
employees and GOBM (G) =(D)+(E)-(F)           426.4    480.4    856.0    705.9
H. Workers Share (25% of G)                        106.6    120.1    214.0    176.5
1. For direct cash bonus (10% of G) /6         42.6     48.1      85.6     70.6



AN1EX 2-4
Page 3
Distribution of Profits
(in 000 LE)
(Continued)
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72   1973
(1l months)
2.  For internal social service                21.3     24.0      42.8     35.3
3. For central social services                 2.
(10% of G)                               42.7      48.0     85.6      70.6
J.  GOBM's share (75% of G) /8                     319.8    360.3    642.0    529.4
/1  This reserve could be used for investments with approval of Government.
7i This reserve is invested in Government Bonds which pay an interest rate of
4-1/2% per annim. The interest on this bond is taxable.
/ This reserve is primarily for replacement investment.
_1 When the liquidity of the company is strained, i.e. when current liabilities
are in excess of current assets, the company is allowed to retain 10% of
profits as resources to strengthen working capital.
/   This includes profits from sales of assets as well as depreciation charges
of assets which have no book value (see footnote 9 of Annex 2-3, page 1).
/6 The maximum cash bonus that any one employee can receive is LE 50. If
the allocation to any one comparn's employees is not fully utilized, the
excess is paid to G0&BM for redistribution to other companies' employees
under 500M. The Minister of Industry decides which companies' employees
will receive supplements from the total accumulated surplus, based on
specific recommendations of GORM.
/7 These allocations are paid by the Company directly to the Central Bank.
7' Paid to GOBM which in turn pays the Treasury.
Industrial Projects Department
Juls 1974



AliAE 2-
EGYPT
TOURAH CEnENT EXPANSION PROJECT
IIISTORICAL BALANCE SHEETI/
(in 000 LE)
June 30      June 30      Dec. 31?/   Dec. 31
1970         1971         1972          1973
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                             12             6             6           19
Receivables                               258           777           269          334
Inventory                               2 881         3,028        2.998         3 424
3,151         3,o1i33,811  3,273
Pre-paid Expenses)/                         191           -             305          217
__3 __        3,711T       3___3
Fixed Assets
Gross Assets4/                         12268         12,123        1206362      126808
Less: Accumulated Depreciation-/        5,183         5,o76        5 946         6,775
Net Fixed Assets                      7,0    6  4166,033
Projects Under Constructiong/             1,371         1,471         2,414        4,053
Other Assets76 870                                        961         1,399        1,545
TOTAL ASSETS                         12,668        13,290        13,807       15,625
LIABILITIE
Current Liabilitie s
Accounts Payablet/                      1,768         2,4412        3,146        3,395
Short Term Credits2/                    2,471         2 413         1 714        2,522
4,2395                                   5,917
Long Term Debti2/                           363            66            91          343
Other Liabilities                           386           323           166          252
Eguity
Share capital                           2,231         2,231         2,231        2,231
Government Participation_12/            2,461         2,461         2,464        2,464
ReserveslY/                            2'988          3,345         3,995        4,418
7,680         8,046        8,690         9,113
TOTAL LIABILiTIES                    12,668        13,290        13,807       15,625
Current Ratio                              0.7           0.8           0.7          0.6
Debt/Equity Ratio                          5:95          1:99          1:99         L:96
1/ Fiscal year ended June 3C through 1971.  Changed to Decenber 31 from 1972 onward.
2/ For 18 months ended Deceriber 31, 1972. All prior years ended on June 30.
3/  Includes advance paymunts made to GOPM.
:/ Operating Assets only.
/  This does not include the depreciation charges of assets which have no book value
(see footnote 9 of Anrnx --4, .-y
6/ This im ludes the lime plants under construction as well as some conveyor systems
which have not been put into operation.
7/ Includes investments in Government Bonds and local securities as well as deposits
with Central Bank.
8/ This includes not only accounts payable, but also tax and dividends payable.
9/ This is mostly Bank overdrafts.
TO/ This includes currert position of long term debt.
TT/ This is primarily tax provisions and debts under dispute.
T7/ This amount represents the amount of equity contributed by the Government for
capital projects.
13/ This includes all reserves retained by the Company. For details see Annex 2-4,
page 20
Industrial Projects Department
July 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
MARKET FOR CEMENT IN EGYPT
A.   THE SUPPLY OF CEMENT IN EGYPT
Development of the Cement Industry
1.        The development history of cement producing capacity and actual
cement production is shown in Table 1. The manufacture of cement in Egypt
started at the beginning of the century with two vertical shaft kilns having
a total capacity of 100,000 tons per annum. Production from these units
continued until 1929, when the kilns were superseded by the introduction of
modern wet process rctary kilns. At present there are four major cement
companies in Egypt. The Tourah Cement Company was established in 1927 by
Swiss and Egyptian investors and was the first company to introduce modern
wet process manufacture into Egypt. Production started in 1929 with a rotary
kiln unit of 160,000 tons rated capacity, and since that time four successive
extensions have increased capacity to 1,400,000 tons per year in 1967 (since
reduced by re-rating as explained below). No further extensions have since
been carried out.
2.        The Helwan Portland Cement Company was established in 1929 in the
same area as Tourah and production of cement started in 1930 with a yearly
capacity of 100,000 tons. Major extensions since its establishment have
increased the installed capacity of the factory to its present 1,400,000
tons per year. In 1967 the Helwan Company installed a unit with an annual
capacity of 40,000 tons/year for the production of white cement only, in
response to market demand.
3.        In 1948 the Alexandria Portland Cement Company was formed and
started production in 1950 with a 120,000 tons per year unit. The output of
this factory was enlarged in 1963 when a new kiln of 190,000 tons per year
rated capacity was installed. In 1966 a third kiln was erected increasing
the total installed cepacity to 500,000 tons yearly.
4.        The National Cement Company was established in 1956 for specializing
in the production of blast furnace cement. For this reason the factory was
sited near the iron and steel mills at Helwan. The company started producing
blast furnace slag cement in 1960 with two rotary kilns having a yearly
capacity totalling 360,000 tons per year. A third kiln was erected and put
into operation in 1969 bringing the total capacity of the plan to 700,000
tons yearly.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The total installed capacity of the four factories described above
is, theoretically, 4,000,000 tons per annum of cement. However, some of the
equipment in the Tourah and Helwan factories is now over 40 years old, and
it became necessary to re-rate the capacities of these factories. The present
rated capacity is 1,350,000 tons per annum for the Tourah factory and 1,300,000
for the Helwan factory. The resulting revised industry capacity is thus 3.85
million tons per annum.
6.        The entire production of Egyptian cement is carried out by the
four factories described above, and all employ the wet process for production
of cement clinker. Production has increased from 2,300,000 tons in 1960 to
more than 3,800,000 tons in 1972. Difficulties in maintaining production at
this level began to be experienced by the two older companies, Tourah and
Helwan during the following year, particularly by the Helwan factory. As
stated above some of the old kilns were badly in need of reconditioning,
and their condition became worse because of the difficulty in obtaining spare
parts, which could not be imported owing to the scarcity of foreign currency.
As a result of this situation, plant shut downs became more frequent and
production suffered accordingly.
7.        Both the Tourah Cement and the Helwan Cement Company have factories
for making paper sacks from imported Kraft paper. These factories manufacture
enough paper sacks to supply the whole cement industry. During the latter
half of 1972 the world shortage of Kraft paper began to make itself felt in
Egypt. Importation of bulk Kraft paper and paper sacks fell which caused
the cement factories to reduce their output of bagged cement. Rising stocks
of bulk cement and clinker soon absorbed the limited storage capacity. This
resulted in a decrease in production of approximately 200,000 tons of cement
during 1973, and for 1974 it is estimated that production may be down to only
90% of capacity. The following table illustrates the decrease in utilization
of rated capacities over the last three years as a result of the shortages of
bags, storage space, and spare parts, all exacerbated by the age of some of
the equipment.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Capacity and Actual Production 1970-1973
(000 tons)
Jul '71 - De '72
1970/71           18 months  1            1973
Present   Actual    % Utili-  Actual   % Utili-  Actual   Z Utili-
Rated     Pro-      zation of  Pro-    zation of  Pro-    zation of
Company     Capacity  duction   Capacity  duction  Capacity  duction  Capacity
Tourah        1,350     1,320       97.8    1,970       96.6      1,235     91.5
Helwan        1,300     1,330      102.3    1,931       99.0      1,204     92.6
National        700       635       90.7    1,049       99.9        668     95.1
Alexandria      500       529      105.8       823     109.7        510    102.0
Total   3,850      3,814      99.1    5,773       100.0     3,617      93.9
/1   In 1972 the cement companies changed their financial year from July
1st - June 30th to January 1st - December 31st.
Types of Cement Manufactured
8.        The four cement companies produce eight different types of cement
to satisfy the requirements of the building and construction industry. Tourah
and Helwan each produce a range of seven types; the National Plant only pro-
duces blast furnace cement and the Alexandria plant only produces ordinary and
mixed portland cement, rapid-hardening cement and blast furnace cement.
Approximately 50% of cement produced is ordinary portland, though the im-
portance of mixed Karnak and blast furnace cement, which now accounts for
almost 40% of production, has increased in recent years.
New Supply Facilities Planned
9.        In the light of the Government's priorities for restoring full
utilization of existing industrial capacity with imported inputs, rebuilding
the infrastructure, rehabilitating and developing the Suez Canal area, and
progressing with new investments for industry, tourism and other sectors, the
development of the cement industry, which produces one of the basic materials
for implementing these plans, has become of primary importance. Consequently
the General Organization for Building Materials and Ceramics (GOBM), the
agency responsible for the cement industry in Egypt, has initiated a compre-
hensive program of extensions to existing cement factories and the construction
of new factories. This program is intended to double the supply of cement
by 1981. The three extensions and four new factories planned are listed below.
1.   National Cement Company Extension
10.       This extension to the existing factory is designed to produce an
additional 650,000 tons of Portland cement clinker per year. The new exten-
sion will take up the additional quantities of slag produced by the expansion



ANNEX 3
Page 4
of the nearby iron and steel mills and will produce 850,000 tons per year
of blast furnace cement (65% clinker, 35% blast furnace slag). The contract
for this project was signed in early 1974 and erection of the plant is ex-
pected to start in mid-1975. Commencement of production is planned for the
end of 1976. Financing of the project is planned to be partly through USSR
credits.
2.   Alexandria Cement Company Extension
11.       Raw material analysis for this project has been completed and the
results are reported to be satisfactory. Yugoslavia will supply extended
credit facilities; the contract was signed in mid-1974. Planned production
capacity for the new extension is 300,000 tons yearly and the plant is ex-
pected to come on-stream in early 1977.
3.   Tourah Cement Company Extension
12.       The project being considered for Bank financing is designed to
increase the nominal capacity of the factory by 700,000 1/ tons of normal
portland cement yearly, utilizing the dry process with gas suspension pre-
heaters. Full details are contained in Annex 4-3. The new extension is
expected to be on-stream by the end of 1977.
4.   Cairo New Plant (at Tourah)
13.       Although located almost alongside the existing Tourah cement factory
this project will be an entirely separate development and will take the form
of a joint venture private company. The basic problem to be solved is the
financial arrangement between Kuwaiti investors and GOBM, between whom recent
discussions have been held. The GOBM recommendation is for 40% non-Egyptian
(private Kuwaiti) participation, 40% GOBM and 20% private Egyptian. These
conditions are still under review, but GOBl is optimistic that the program
will be carried out. Meanwhile some raw material analysis has been done but
the final tests have not yet been completed. Presumably, as the raw material
deposits are in the same area as those of the Tourah Cement Company, these
tests will eventually prove to be satisfactory. Raw material availability
may be a problem, however. The new factory is designed to produce 1,000,000
tons of portland cement which, together with the 700,000 tons yearly to be
produced by the new Tourah extension, will require about 2,900,000 tons
yearly of raw materials to be extracted from the deposits. While the lime-
stone deposits are known to be very extensive, there is a scarcity of infor-
mation about the clay deposit reserves, and these should be proved before
any further new project in this area is contemplated. If the financial
arrangements at present under discussion are concluded satisfactorily the
contract is expected to be signed by the end of 1975 and the new plant should
come into operation in mid-1978.
1/   Under given product mix of cement types, this capacity will yield
720,000 tons of cement per year.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
5.   Suez New Plant
14.       This project is still in the early stages of preparation, but GOBM
feels that its implementation program is realistic. Most of the limestone
tests in the nearby deposits have been satisfactory, but some problems have
been encountered with testing clay deposits. One difficulty has been the
delay in obtaining suitable samples due to the recent withdrawal of the
military forces and the problem of disposing of the many unexploded mines
remaining in the area. Detailed analysis of the clay has, therefore, not
yet been undertaken. This plant would also be a joint venture company with
Egyptian and non-Egyptian participation. Discussions are at present being
held with financial organizations in Europe, but details of the discussions
have not yet been disclosed. It is understood that the shareholding of the
new company would be 40% non-Egyptian, 40% GOBM, and 20% private Egyptian.
Nominal capacity will be 1,000,000 tons of cement per year, and if the fi-
nancial arrangements are concluded satisfactorily, it is possible that the
contract will be signed at the beginning of 1977 and production will start
in mid-1979.
6.   Alexandria New Plant
15.       This project will also be a joint venture company but details of
the organization have not yet been revealed. Raw material analysis has been
carried out by Polysius A.G. and found to be satisfactory. The extension is
designed to increase the nominal capacity of the factory by 500,000 tons
yearly and is expected to come on-stream towards the end of 1980.
7.   Assiut New Plant
16.       The original plan for this project included financing with USSR
capital, but it appears that some difficulty has been experienced in the
supply of Russian credit. The general feeling in GOBM was that the project
would be unlikely to go through, but in any case it would not be likely to
come on-stream before 1981.
Total Supply of Cement in the Future
17.       The planned production build up is given in Table 2, which shows
capacity increasing from 3.85 million tons in 1976 to 8.37 million tons by
1983. This is based on the assumption that the capacity of existing
factories will drop to about 3,500,000 tons by 1980, due to the scrapping
of some production units. The reasons for this are increasing antiquity
of some of the units and their small and uneconomical size resulting
in high operating and maintenance costs per ton. Meanwhile, until the new
plants come into operation, the old machinery is being kept in operation
to decrease the supply/demand gap.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
18.       This projection, however, ignores the possibility of delays in
implementation of some of the proposed projects. Raw material tests for
some have not yet been started and the availability of raw materials, pro-
blems associated with their transport and the outcome of the proposed dis-
tribution study could result in the scaling down of some of the plants.
Also, a shortage of funds could postpone or cancel some projects. The pro-
duction capacity build up planned by Egyptian authorities is certainly an
ambitious program which could well prove over-optimistic. Further analysis
of likely future supply will be included in the market and distribution
study which it has been agreed will be carried out by consultants, working
with the Institute of National Planning and the ECO (see para. 62).
B.   DOMESTIC CEMENT CONSUMPTION AND DEMIAND
1.   Historic Consumption
Cement Sales
19.       The sales of all cement produced in Egypt are managed by the
Egyptian Cement Office in Cairo, as described in the section of this Annex
on Distribution and Sales. The history of domestic sales for the 10 years
to 1973 is shown below:
Domestic Cement Sales History
('000 tons)
Ordinary          White
Year                  Cement  /1        Cement         Total
1963/64                 2,486                            2,486
1964/65                 2,143               -            2,143
1965/66                 2,194              20            2,214
1966/67                 2,279              26            2,305
1967/68                 2,286              27            2,313
1968/69                 2,566              28            2,594
1969/70                 2,833              29            2,862
1970/71                 2,854              31            2,885
1971/72                 3,133              37            3,170
1973                     n.a.            n.a.            3,033
/1   Includes all non-white types.
Source:   Egyptian Cement Office, Cairo.
20.       Most of the cement is sold directly to the end-user, but a pro-
portion is sold through dealers, of whom there are thousands throughout the
country. The broad breakdown of sales has been as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Proportion of Cement Sales to Dealers and End-Users
Sectors               1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72
*()       (%)        (%)       (%)        (%)
Housing                11.7       14.6       11.7       9.6        9.0
Dealers                38.4       32.5      26.9       26.1       31.9
Cement Tile Plants      3.0        2.2        2.6       2.9        3.1
Public Sector          46.9       50.7       58.8      61.4       56.0
Total            100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Source:   Egyptian Cement Office, Cairo
21.       The housing and public sector customers include private and govern-
ment contractors as well as government departments. More details on actual
consumption by sector are given later in this section. Sales to dealers are
for resale and differences between sale quantities and consumption quantities
occur due to fluctuations in customer stocks and quantities still in the
distribution system. These stock fluctuations also partially obscure any
trends in consumption by region, which is further distorted by the practice
of recording sales to customers relocated from the war zone under the region
in which they were originally registered. While this may lead to overestim-
ation of consumption in the Suez and Sinai regions, it does not affect the
domination of the heavily populated Cairo and Delta regions, which accounted
for 45.2% and 27.6% respectively of cement sales in 1971/72. In comparison
with those regions, Upper Egypt accounted for only 12.8%, Suez and Sinai
for only 3.5% and Alexandria for 10.9%.
Cement Consumption
22.       The actual consumption of cement, as distinct from sales, has been
estimated by sector of usage by the Ministry of Planning. The level of
cement consumption bears a direct relationship to the volume and type of
building and construction completed, in which concrete is a major material
component. Building and construction volume in turn bears a relationship
to the volume and type of fixed capital investment. A portion of cement
consumption is attributable to maintenance (roads, structures, etc.) and
to the manufacture of concrete products (tiles, pipes, railway ties, etc.),
but these activities are themselves related to the construction industry.
The Ministry of Planning has made separate estimates for these latter areas
of usage, the consumption for maintenance being a function of current ex-
penditure on that activity, and the "indirect" consumption of cement being
a function of the production volume of concrete products. The cement con-
sumption estimates are summarized in the table below. Detailed consumption
figures by sector for the period 1967/68 to 1971/72 are included in Tables
3 and 4.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Historical Fixed Capital Investment, Building and
Construction Expenditure, and Cement Consumption
Cement Consumption (000 tons)
Total Fixed    Construction                                    Tons per
Capital      Expenditure                                     LE '000
Year Investment (Incl. Maintenance) Direct Indirect Total Construction
LE           LE    % of Invest-         (Concrete
millions    millions  ment /1              Products)
60/61   225.6       111.5        49.4    1,144      198      1,342      12.0
61/62   251.1       142.4        56.7    1,427      205      1,632      11.5
62/63   299.6       165.8        55.3    1,704      233      1,937      11.7
63/64   372.4       206.3        55.4    2,035      261      2,296      11.1
64/65   364.3       181.2        49.7    1,972      301      2,273      12.5
65/66   383.8       197.9        51.6    2,134      287      2,421      12.2
66/67   365.8       188.0        51.4    2,106      326      2,432      12.9
67/68   298.0       186.3        62.5    2,014      418      2,432     12.9
68/69   343.5       227.7        66.3    2,369      268      2,637      11.6
69/70   355.5       244.5        68.8    2,776      284      3,060      12.5
70/71   361.0       245.5        68.0    2,804      299      3,103     12.6
71/72   384.0       259.8        67.7    2,639      305      2,944     11.3
/1   This ratio is artificially high, particularly from 1967/68 on as
construction expenditure includes a proportion of current expenditure,
most of which was for defense purposes, and some for maintenance.
23.       Although cement consumption is more directly related to construc-
tion expenditure than to fixed capital investment, some comparison of Egypt's
cement consumption/investment ratio with other countries is interesting.
There can be considerable variation in this ratio due to differing invest-
ment mixes (i.e., construction vs. other investments), different construction
mixes by sector, different design and construction methods, different labor/
material cost relationships, and so on. Nevertheless, it can be seen from
the data below that a number of developing countries in the same region have
a ratio similar to that of Egypt. It should be noted that these data are
also subject to error due to statistical inaccuracies, especially as apparent
cement consumption figures are used (production plus imports less exports).



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Fixed Capital Investment and Cement Consumption
for Selected Countries, 1971-1972 /1
Apparent
Cement
Country         Investment /2        Consumption /3    Consumption/Investment
(US$ Million)        (000 tons)           (Tons per $1,000)
Egypt               883                 2,639                  3.0
Portugal            870                 2,677                  3.1
Turkey            2,000                 7,267                  3.6
Morocco             570                 1,620                  2.8
Syria               330                 1,340                  4.1
Iran              1,870                 3,634                  1.9
Lebanon             310                   960                  3.1
/1   Data are for 1971 for some countries and 1972 for others.
/2   From World Bank country economic reports.
/3   From Cembureau Statistical Review, 1973.
Investment, Construction and Direct Cement Consumption by Sector
24.       The historic consumption data shown in Tables 3 and 4 is dis-
torted by the impact of defense expenditure on "Other Services" and the
concomitant depressant impact on other sectors, particularly housing. Few
of the years in the last decade could be called "typical," especially in
view of the mix of expenditure and consumption likely to take place in the
next decade. The data does serve to indicate the differences between
sectors, as well as the wide range of investments attributable to construc-
tion in any one year, even within the same sector.
25.       Under "normal" circumstances, housing and industry are the largest
cement consuming sectors. It is difficult to make international comparisons
of sectoral consumption rates due to the paucity of comparable data. Such
comparisons would be difficult in any case, due to differences in designs,
costs and practices as well as differing statistical bases, but the data on
housing construction vs. cement consumption in the table below indicate
Egyptian cement consumption per dwelling ratios which seem reasonable in
view of the ratios published I/ for various European countries as follows:
Ireland, Netherlands                  11 tons/dwelling
Greece, Portugal, U.K.                12 tons/dwelling
Finland, Spain                        14 tons/dwelling
/1   European Cement Association; "Where Does the Cement Go?" 1972.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Egypt
Housing Construction vs. Cement Consumption
No. of Housing       Cement          Cement Consumption
Year                  Units Built   /1   Consumed /2            Per Unit
(000's)            (000 tons)           (tons)
1965/66                  48.4               460                   9.5
1966/67                  56.0               396                   7.1
1967/68                  48.8               401                   8.2
1968/69                  34.7               462                  13.3 /3
1969/70                  48.5               379                   7.8
1970/71                  32.9               252                   7.7
/1   Statistical Abstract of ARE; Central Agency for Public Mobilization
and Statistics.
/2   Ministry of Planning, ARE.
/3   Statistics are possibly distorted in this period due to defense
reallocations.
2.   Future Demand Projections
26.       For most of the last six years, the Egyptian economic situation has
been difficult, with defense expenditures at a high level and investment
stagnating. The result has been continuing deterioration in much of the
nation's infrastructure and deferment of many projects in industry, agri-
culture, tourism and other sectors.
27.       Egypt is presently confronting a new era in its economic develop-
ment. The prospects of a continuing peace present an opportunity to trans-
fer resources from military to civilian uses. The government is now
evolving a new development strategy envisaging expansion of the private sector
and the encouragement of private foreign investment, as well as giving priority
to improving the utilization of industrial capacity. Included in this are the
completing of ongoing projects and advancing new projects to expand output in
agriculture, industry, tourism, etc., rebuilding infrastructure, rehabilitating
run-down and obsolete equipment and reconstructing and developing the Suez
region.
28.       Preliminary Development Plans for the next decade are currently
being revised and estimates now available for development programs and growth
even for the next two years are far from definite. Prospects beyond this
are speculative and depend on many factors, the most vital of which is the
availability of investment capital and particularly foreign exchange. The
Bank economic mission to Egypt in May 1974 has estimated that GDP could grow
at 6-1/2% per annum for 1974 to 1980, and at a higher rate in some intervening
years. Average investment growth is projected at 14% annually over the same
period.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
29.       Such a rate of development indicates strong growth in the construc-
tion sector, which, in a now out-dated government projection, was expected to
grow at an average rate of 9% from 1974 to 1982. Present indications are
that this rate may well be exceeded.
30.       In February 1974, the Egyptian Institute of National Planning (INP)
published an Economic Study of the Egyptian Cement Industry, which contained
projections by sector of investment, construction expenditure and cement
consumption to 1992. Particularly ambitious targets were indicated, especially
for industrial investment and for reconstruction and development of the Suez
region. Some modifications have been made to these projections, in light of
the findings of the economic mission and the recent industrial sector and urban
development missions to Egypt. The summarized results for cement consumption
are set out in Table 5.
31.       In view of the highly tentative nature of investment plans and of
the likely supply/demand situation, it has been agreed that a comprehensive
market and distribution study should be carried out for cement which should be
completed in 1976 (see para 62). In the absence of the specific information
that this will be able to provide, the general thrust of development is expected
to be along the following lines:
(a) Agriculture, irrigation and drainage. Agriculture will remain
the most important sector and mav grow at up to 3-1/2% per annum
over the next decade. Based on the INP program, cement consump-
tion should increase to 600,000 tons, excluding plans for Sinai
or other reclamation schemes.
(b) Industry and petroleum. Notwithstanding a recent decline in
output, industry will play a critical role in development,
particularly through expansion of the private sector, both foreign
and domestic. Assuming an average investment growth rate of
12.7%, industrial value added could grow by an annual 10% to
1980 at the same time as exports would increase by 5% per
annum. Cement consumption in this sector is expected to reach
1.68 million tons by 1984.
(c)  Housing.  Plans call for gradual easing of the existing backlog,
particularly by construction of low income units. Even though
large-scale construction might be delayed, the sector should
consume 1.45 million tons of cement in 1981 and 1.88 million tons
annually by 1984.
(d) Public Utilities. Less than 20% of Egyptian towns have sewage
facilites and 3 million people have no access to fresh water.
To alleviate this, it is possible that up to LE 4 million annually
will be spent on programs which will be substantial consumers of
cement.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
(e)  Other.  Substantial infrastructural investments are expected in
railways, an expansion of which has recently been assisted by
the Bank, power, both conventional and nuclear, and telecommuni-
cations.
32.       In addition, a new Ministry of Reconstruction has been established
to coordinate reconstruction of the war-damaged areas of Suez, Port Said and
Ismailia and to develop the Sinai peninsula, the north-west coast, the western
desert and social infrastructure in Cairo and Alexandria. The need for such
investment is readily apparent; it has been estimated that 85% of the buildings
in the Suez region alone will have to be demolished and major replacements to
basic infrastructure will have to be made before substantial resettlement and
economic growth can resume. Should the Government implement a comprehensive
program of rehabilitation and reconstruction on the scale recently indicated,
the magnitude of the necessary investments would dominate economic planning
through at least the mid-1980s.
Summary of Projected Investment, Construction Expenditure and Cement
Consumption
33.       As already mentioned, Table 5 of this annex contains details by
sector of the projected cement consumption in Egypt from 1974 to 1984. The
average growth rate of construction expenditure from 1974-1984 is likely to be
in the region of 10.4%, though the annual variation will probably be wide.
While constructior expenditure in 1974 is expected to be about LE 217 million,
by 1984 it is anticipated that it will have grown to about LE 685 million.
This should, in turn, generate an average growth in cement consumption of
about 11.4% for a 1984 consumption figure of about 8.3 million tons.
34.       The sectoral investment priorities and projections take into account
the government's outlook and objectives as at early 1974, adjusted somewhat
in light of the findings of various Bank missions during the year, particularly
for the earlier part of the forecast. The government is still in the process
of revising its ten-year plan, but indications are that the revised projections
for the later 70s and early 80s will be similar to those assumed for this re-
port. The construction expenditure/investment and cement consumption ratios
used to compile projected cement demand reflect historic ratios in Egypt as
outlined earlier, with some modification to allow for the shift in emphasis
from defense to civilian works and the different mix of projects envisaged for
the future.
Alternative Method of Demand Projections
35.       The cement demand projections by sector depend on a number of assump-
tions about the growth and pattern of investment in Egypt over the next 10
years, as well as on several implicit assumptions about the more specific
nature of projects, the nature and methodology of construction involved, and
so on. Furthermore, the projections rely heavily on figures supplied by the
Institute of National Planning, the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Housing and Reconstruction. It is difficult to confirm these figures as Egypt's
future development plans are still very much in a state of flux and subject to
further review.
36.       In order to apply some check on sectoral cement demand projections,
an alternative approach has been taken to prepare another set of overall
forecasts, using Egyptian and international macro-economic figures as a basis.
It has already been demonstrated that there is a direct relationship between
cement consumption and construction expenditure. The latter variable is in
turn related to fixed capital investment, which it has been shown is related
to cement consumption in a similar way for a number of developing countries.
The consumption of cement per capita is often used as one index of the level
of development in a country, which is in turn reflected in the Gross National
Product per capita. Egypt's future growth ambitions are reflected in the
fairly rapid rise in GNP per capita already projected in the earlier part of
this section on demand. To relate cement consumption per capita to GNP per
capita, a number of countries were chosen whose level of development ranges
both below and above that of Egypt's at present and its expected level at the
end of the forecast period. Furthermore, the countries chosen are primarily
in the Europe, Middle East and North Africa region, and those countries have
been excluded where GNP per capita figures are substantially distorted through
the combination of low population levels and GNP greatly increased by oil
revenues. The countries chosen, with their respective data on cement con-
sumption and GNP, are shown in Table 6.
37.       Using linear regression analysis, the data in the table resulted in
a relationship as follows:
CCPC = 0.652 (GNPC) - 82.380
where      CCPC = cement consumption per capita in kilograms
GNPC = gross national product per capita in US$
38.       Using this relationship, together with alternative GNP and population
projections for Egypt, alternative projections of cement demand were determined
as shown in the table below:



ANNEX 3
Page 14
Egypt
Projected GNP per Capita and Cement Consumption
Total            Cement
Projected          Consumption
Projected            Cement                     Cement          Projection by
Year     GNP/Capita /1    Consumption /2             Consumption /3  Sectoral Analysis
(US$)             (kg/capita)               (000 tons)        (000 tons)
A    B    C      A       B        C        A        B      C
1974    252  252  252   81.9   81.9    82.9   2,987   2,987  2,987           3,029
1975    264  264  264   89.7   89.7    89.7   3,350   3,350  3,350           3,109
1976    281  281  281  100.8  100.8   100.8   3,855   3,855  3,855           4,138
1977    291  293  303  107.3  108.7   115.2   4,203   4,257  4,512           5,778
1978    301  304  315  113,91 115.8   123.0   4,568   4,644  4,933           6,196
1979    312  317  330  121.0  124.3   132.8   4,969   5,105  5,453           6,533
1980    323  329  344  128.2  132.1   141.9   5,391   5,555  5,967           6,581
1981    334  342  361  135.4  140.6   153.0   5,830   6,054  6,588           6,774
1982    346  356  376  143.2  149.7   162.8   6,314   6,601  7,178           7,515
1983    358  370  391  151.0  158.9   172.5   6,818   7,175  7,789           7,827
1984    370  385  411  158.9  168.6   185.6   7,347   7,795  8,581           8,325
/1   Case A assumes 6.0% growth rate for GNP, Case B - 6.5%, Case C - 7.0%
for the period 1977-84. All cases are based on a rate of population
growth of 2.4%.
/2   From regression analysis.
/3   Per capita consumption x population.
39.       The median macro-economic projection falls short of the sectoral
projection, including Suez reconstruction. The macro-economic approach, how-
ever, is linked entirely to total GNP and population growth, and does not
reflect variations in the investment level and mix or the proportion of GNP
contributed by the construction sector. It is obvious that these factors
are liable to considerable variation in Egypt over the next 5-10 years, largely
due to the impact of the reconstruction activity being planned.
C.   IMPORT/EXPORT
40.       Although for many years Egypt was an importer of cement, since 1967
its own industry has produced sufficient quantities of the types of cement
required for its market and imports have been negligible. Indeed, since 1962
Egypt has exported considerable quantities of cement. Tables 7 and 8 show
details of cement exports which, together with imports, are summarized below:



ANNEX 3
Page 15
Egypt: Cement Imports and Exports (000 tons)
Year      1950 1960 1961 62/63 63/64 64/65 65/66 66/67 67/68 68/69 69/70 70/71 71/72
Imports    8   17    1       -    90   245   223   126    -         -     -      -      -
Exports    -    -    -   258   132   211   353   271   600   868   629   900   971
Source:   Tourah Feasibility Study
41.        Traditionally cement exports were regarded as a means of disposing of
surplus output, but from 1967 more emphasis was placed on earning foreign ex-
change, and a greater export effort was made, to the extent that there was some
conflict between satisfying the need for foreign exchange vs. the demand for
cement in the domestic market. Since 1973, domestic demand has increasingly
come into conflict with the desire to increase exports, as the static capacity
of the industry was becoming pressed to the limit. The result has been that
in 1974, exports have been embargoed, and export activity confined only to
completing contractual commitments. This situation has resulted in part due
to the curtailment of production caused by the shortage of paper bags.
42.        In the past, Egypt's participation in various export markets had been
sporadic. In more recent years, emphasis has been mainly on the Arab States
and West Africa, as shown in Tables 7 and 8. Exports to Libya, Saudi Arabia,
Syria, West Africa, Yugoslavia and Poland constituted 79% and 83% of Egypt's
total exports in 1970/71 and 1971/72 respectively. Export pricing is covered
in the later section dealing with cement prices.
3.   Future Export Prospects
43.        In a reversal from having been a substantial cement exporter, Egypt
now faces a period where importation will become necessary, with demand ex-
pected to climb rapidly over the next few years and capacity being virtually
static until early 1977. This situation is examined in more detail in the
section on supply and demand.
44.       Aside from Egypt's future ability to resume exports from a domestic
demand/capacity viewpoint, the prospects for exports must be considered in the
whole Middle East and Mediterranean region, which includes many current cement
importers that are becoming substantial investors in cement production ca-
pacity within their own borders.
45.        Although various studies 1/ have been made of the demand/supply
situation in the Mediterranean and Persian Gulf region, these are very super-
ficial and wide-ranging in their estimates. While reasonable projections of
1/   IDCAS (Industrial Development Centre for the Arab States); ARE Institute
of National Planning; Polysius AG; Holderbank.



ANNEX 3
Page 16
of demand might be made for preliminary estimates, there is a lack of reliable
information on the supply prospects, with a considerable number of substantial
plants planned, being considered, or proposed. Additional information was
obtained on this from cement equipment manufacturers and consulting firms
during a recent Bank mission to Europe. There is no doubt that most of the
Arab States and France have both the raw materials and financial resources
to provide not only self-sufficiency in cement but export capacity as well,
but the rate at which plants are actually established will depend, among other
factors, on technical capabilities, other investment and development priorities,
and the availability of cement-making equipment. Nevertheless, cement equip-
ment suppliers are receiving a substantial volume of orders from the Arab
countries and Iran.
46.       A review of the preliminary information obtained for the Mediterranean
and Persian Gulf indicates that nearly all the current cement importing countries
in the region could be self-sufficient in cement by the early eighties, with
only Kuwait being significantly deficient in cement-making capacity. There
appears to be little risk of chronic over-capacity in the region although some
areas could have surplus capacity from time to time. It would appear that
some of the traditional European exporters e.g. Spain, Greece, will continue
to be active in regional trading. More detailed information and analysis would
be required to make more reliable projections.
47.       It would therefore seem prudent that Egypt should plan to have no
more than one million tons capacity available for export in any one year up
to 1984, and then only if it secures at least half that amount contractually,
as per the agreement currently contemplated with Kuwait, i.e., linking Kuwaiti
investment in cement producing capacity in Egypt directly to export commitments
for 500,000 tons annually. It is obvious that joint planning arrangements are
desirable, particularly with other Arab countries. Most of the countries in
the region appear to be aiming at self-sufficiency, and it is probable that
others besides Egypt will have export capacity available.
D.  THE SUPPLY/DEMAND SITUATION
48.       As already indicated in the relevant sections, the planned cement
supply expansion and the projections of construction investment and cement
consumption in Egypt over the next decade are extremely ambitious targets.
The completion of cement plant projects as currently envisaged still depends
on Egypt's ability to secure the necessary financial and organizational agree-
ments, on the results of raw material testing, on project management perform-
ance, and on the availability of cement manufacturing equipment. Any or all
of these factors could act to slow down the implementation of the supply
program.
49.       On the other hand, projections of demand are at least as imponder-
able. Here again, the availability of finance, materials, project management
and equipment are factors which could act to curtail Egypt's ambitious de-
velopment program. As regards the cement supply/demand situation projected



ANNEX 3
Page 17
from all this, it is felt that the projections done by the Egyptians have
been modified consistently on both sides of the equation. The net results
of these projections are shown below. The projections of supply and demand
are shown in Chart 1 and summarized in Table 9.
Projected Supply and Demand Situation in Egypt: 1974-1984
(000 tons)
Domestic    Domestic   Committed            Import       Uncommitted  Total
Year     Production    Demand       Exports  /1  Requirements /2   Exports   Exports
1974       3,500         3,030                         -               470       470
1975       3,850         3,110         -               -                740      740
1976       3,850         4,140         -              290               -         -
1977       4,540         5,780         -            1,240               -         -
1978       5,350         6,200        150           1,000               -        150
1979       6,330         6,530        350             550               -        350
1980       7,070         6,580        430              -                 60      490
1981       7,870         6,770        500              -               600    1,100
1982       8,200         7,520        500              -                180      680
1983       8,370         7,830        500              -                 40      540
1984       8,370         8,330        500             460               -        500
/1   50% Kuwaiti share of output of Cairo's new plant, if Kuwait participates
in the financing as proposed.
/2   Including allowance for committed exports.
50.       During the second half of the 1970s, the projections for Egypt
indicate substantial cement import requirements, with a cessation of exports
for about two years until the Cairo new plant comes on stream in 1978. If
this plant goes ahead as presently envisaged with joint Kuwaiti-Egyptian
financing, one-half of its output will be earmarked for export to Kuwait.
By 1980, imports should cease, and there may be some export capacity in
addition to the Kuwait commitment for a year or two. However, at present,
it is difficult to predict whether the country will in fact be able to ex-
ecute its overall investment and construction program as well as the com-
pletion of all the proposed cement plants with the speed now envisaged.
Should cement demand not grow as predicted, new plants could be scaled down,
implementation of sectoral plans could be delayed and, in addition, there is
the possibility of continued exports to the Arab world or even to West Africa.
However, owing to the uncertainties surrounding the supply and demand situ-
ation, terms of reference for a comprehensive market and distribution study
will be agreed upon with the Government and assurances have been obtained that,
should such a study indicate the likelihood of chronic imbalance, the Govern-
ment would revise its investment program accordingly. In addition, further
assurance has been obtained that the Bank be consulted before the Government
would set in motion any new proposals which would result in increased pro-
duction beyond that contemplated in the investment program.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
E.   DISTRIBUTION AND SALES
1.   Channels of Distribution
51.       The sales operations and distribution of Egyptian cement to both
the domestic and export markets are controlled by the Egyptian Cement Office
(ECO), which is based in Cairo. This body is responsible to the General
Organization for Building Materials and its activities are directed by the
Committee for Organizing the Marketing of Cement. The Committee consists of
the General Manager of the ECO, the chairmen and finance managers of the
four cement companies, and one delegate from each of the Ministries of
Housing, Supply and Interior Trade, and Economics. One of the company chair-
men acts as the committee chairman for a period of two years.
52.       The organizational structure of the ECO is shown in Table 10.  The
office has no capital and does not publish a balance sheet. Its operating
expenses are covered by contributions from the four cement companies in
proportion to their annual cement production as follows (for 1973):
Tourah Cement Go.          32.9%
Helwan Cement Co.          31.8%
Alexandria Cement Co.    15.5%
National Cement Co.        19.8%
53.       The ECO has about 800 employees, including transport, maintenance,
planning, personnel, financial and commercial staff. There are no agents or
regional distribution centers used, but some 7,000 dealers are registered
with the Office. Customers place their orders with either dealers (for
amounts less than 10 tons) or directly with the ECO. Cement is allocated
among dealers and Egypt's 25 governates according to a budget. Customers
must have a permit from their Governate's Department of Housing for quan-
tities exceeding 10 tons and must pay for their orders in advance. Cement
is subsequently dispatched directly from the appropriate plant according to
the ECO's instructions. Vehicles operated by the ECO transport a substantial
proportion of the cement, as described below.
2.   Physical Distribution
54.       Nearly all Egyptian cement is transported in bagged form by truck.
Small and declining amounts of bagged cement are carried by the Egyptian
railways and by barge (primarily to points along the Nile), as shown in the
table below:
Proportion of Cement Transported by Mode
1970/71       1971/72       1973
Truck                             91.2          94.3        94.9
Railway                            3.9           3.2         3.3
Barge                              4.9           2.5         1.8
100.0         100.0      100.0



ANNEX 3
Page 19
55.       The decline in barge transport, which involves only bagged cement,
has been caused primarily by the paper bag shortage which has continued
since 1972, resulting in some shift to bulk road transport. Shipping cement
in bulk has not been significant in Egypt, as major continuing usage centers
such as ready-mix concrete plants have not developed and the development of
bulk-handling technology has not been so necessary. The move to increase
the bulk-shipped proportion has been almost entirely instigated by the bag
shortage. This recent trend is illustrated in the table below.
Bulk Shipping of Cement
Total              Bulk          % of
Year             Domestic Sales       Shipments    Total Sales
(000 tons)         (000 tons)
1972               3,170                 15             0.5
1973               3,033                 46             1.5
1974               3,000 (est.)         200 (est.)      6.7
56.       The ECO currently operates fifteen 15-ton and two 12-ton bulk
trucks. There are plans to acquire an additional 40 trucks during 1975
and 1976. Steel silos of 30-50 ton capacity are being made for sale to
some Cairo customers, mostly cement product manufacturers. Twenty silos
are expected to be distributed during 1974.
57.       Including the bulk units, the ECO owns and operates some 180 trucks
and 97 trailers. The bag trucks and trailers have a capacity ranging from
8 to 12 tons each, with most units being of 8 tons. The total carrying
capacity of the fleet is 2,617 tons. About 43% of the fleet is 10 years old
or more, and considerable problems are encountered keeping many of the units
roadworthy, due mainly to a shortage of both skilled maintenance staff and
imported parts. The ECO fleet is augmented by about 300 to 400 trucks operated
by a number of private and government controlled transport companies. The
proportion of cement transported by these contractors has been about 55% to
62% during the last few years.
58.       Some larger customers and government departments can arrange their
own transport directly from the plants. Customer pick-up has been curtailed
from former levels due to the congestion which resulted.
59.        Transport tariffs are set by Government decree and were recently
revised in March 1974. Tariff levels to various points in Egypt from the
plants south of Cairo (Tourah, National and Helwan) are set out in Table 11.
Ton-kilomter costs range from LE 0.04 - 0.05 for the short haul to Cairo
down to LE 0.01 for longer hauls, i.e., over 200 km. Transport costs add
from LE 0.60 to LE 8.00 per ton to ex-factory cement prices and are passed
on directly to the customer.



ANNEX 3
Page 20
60.       Although rail and barge transport costs per ton-kilometer are
generally lower for longer hauls, various constraints have restricted greater
usage of these modes. There appears to be little control or influence on
the part of ECO, particularly for rail deliveries, resulting in lengthened
delivery times. Customers frequently wait up to three months between ordering
and receiving their shipments, and therefore favor the faster and more flexible
road transport.
61.       Shipment by barge, although the cheapest means, is obviously re-
stricted to waterway points and, above Assuit, trans-shipment to shallower
draft barges is required due to the inadequate river depth (1.35 meters for
8 months of the year). Also, as previously mentioned, barge shipping has
been restricted by the paper bag shortage. Although barge shipping is not
set up for bulk handling at present, the ECO plans to expand the movement
of cement by water and pneumatic handling facilities are being established
at Tourah and Helwan. The waterside plants south of Cairo are located on
a waterway system which includes 910 km of the Nile from Cairo to Aswan and
three canals, two from Cairo to Alexandria (220 km and 250 km) and one from
Cairo to Ismailia (133 km). The ECO arranges all water transport through a
private contractor who owns three barges and sub-contracts others.
3.   Scope for Improvement:  Proposed Market and Distribution Study
62.       As already indicated, the cement distribution system in Egypt has
a number of shortcomings. In view of the substantially increased demand
which will be placed on it in the future, coupled with the major impact of
distribution costs on delivered cement prices, it is imperative that the
market and distribution study requested by the Bank, be carried out. This
will allow more definite estimates to be made as to the likely balance between
future demand and supply and will, further, permit a rational distribution
system to be developed in line with these projections. Assurances have been
obtained that, upon completion of the study, the Government will prepare an
investment program which will include developing the distribution system for
cement in line with the updated demand and supply forecasts. It is not
apparent that the Institute of National Planning and the ECO have the re-
sources to carry out such a comprehensive study, which must take into consider-
ation not only major growth, but a significant future shift in the pattern of
regional demand, the bottlenecks caused by poor rail delivery control and
inadequate bulk handling facilities, the lack of regional distribution depots,
inadequate and poorly maintained truck fleets, and so on. It has been agreed
that the best means of expediting planning to meet these problems and to imple-
ment needed improvements would be to engage consultants to study Egypt's future
cement distribution needs and help prepare the necessary distribution plans.
Training of ECO staff to continue these planning efforts and effect their
implementation should also form part of this program.



ANNEX 3
Page 21
F.   PRICING
1.   Historic Pricing Policy
63.        Since 1946, cement prices in Egypt have been controlled by the
government. Between 1965 and March 1974, only one increase was allowed (in
1969) in the ex-factory price to the companies. Prices to the customer
were increased in addition to this by the addition of an Equalization Tax
of LE 1.00 per ton for the purpose of financing housing projects. The
domestic price structures since 1965 to the present day are set out in Table
12 and export prices are shown in Table 13. The development of the price of
Ordinary Portland Cement is shown below:
Ordinary Portland Cement: Domestic Price History
Price/Ton Ex-Factory       Price/Ton Ex-Factory,
Period                                 Excl. Tax                   Incl. Tax
--------------------- LE ---------------------
1965-69                                  4.10                          5.50
1969-72                                  5.10                          6.50
Feb. 1972 - March 1974                    5.10                         7.50
After March 8, 1974                       6.25 /1                      9.50 11
/1   Bulk price; earlier prices include cost of bags; this is now an additional
charge.
64.        Bagged cement prices have included the cost of bags at a constant
figure of LE 0.50 per ton and dealers' margins were LE 0.4 per ton above
their purchase price until the 1974 round of increases described below. In
1967, a price increase of LE 0.56 per ton was allowed for cement produced by
the Alexandria Cement Company and any other cement sold in the Alexandria
Region due to the higher production costs of the local company. Delivered
cement prices have always included transport costs directly passed on to the
customer.
65.        Until 1973, Egyptian export prices were below domestic prices while
heavy emphasis was placed on foreign exchange earnings and international
prices were significantly below their more recent levels (see Table 3 for
Egyptian Export Prices to 1973). The companies received an export subsidy
of LE 1.00 per ton.
66.        The rigid pricing policies adopted in the past have of course
resulted in eroding profit margins for the Egyptian companies, especially in
more recent times, when inflationary pressures have increased substantially.
A new pricing policy effected by government decree as from March 8 is described
below.



AiNEX 3
Page 22
2.   Present and Future Pricing Policies
67.       The prices resulting from the new government policy are detailed
in Table 12. The new prices are listed by product below:
EGYPT
Domestic Cement Prices from March 8, 1974
(Bulk, Ex-Factory)
Product                    Before Taxes               After Taxes
--------------- LE -----------------
Ordinary Portland                     6.25                       9.50
Supercrete                            7.25                      10.50
Superfine 4100                        8.25                      11.50
Seawater                              8.25                      11.50
Low Heat                              8.25                      11.50
Blast Furnace and Karnak              6.15                       8.00
White                                17.25                      20.50
68.       The basis of the new policy is as follows:
-    ex-factory bulk prices are based on total product costs,
allowing a margin of 30% of the price; annual adjustments
based on cost increases will maintain the margin; the
Alexandria increment of LE 0.56 per ton will be retained;
-    the cost of bags will be passed on directly to the customer
(plus LE 1.30 per ton in March, increasing to LE 1.70 by
June-July and likely to go much higher with the soaring
cost of Kraft paper);
-    transport costs have been fixed at higher levels and will
continue to be passed on directly to the customer (see
Table 11 for transport costs to selected points);
-    the retail dealers' margin has been increased to LE 1.00
per ton;
-    the Equalization Tax has been increased from LE 1.00 to
LE 1.10 per ton; a Reinvestment Tax of LE 0.75 per ton
will be collected by the ECO to help finance future
industry expansion;
-    the export subsidy has been removed.
69.       The new pricing policy has of course significantly improved company
profit levels, but the delivered price to customers has increased greatly
due to the higher factory prices, additional charges for bags, additional



ANNEX 3
Page 23
taxes, hieher transport charges and, for those buying from dealers, increased
retail margins. The resulting delivered prices for Ordinary Portland Cement
at various points in the country are shown below:
Delivered Prices per Ton for Ordinary Portland Cement
(LE)
Maximum              Wholesale               Retail
Town/Area           Transport          Delivered Price       Delivered Price
Cost /1            Bagged /3  Bulk      Bagged /3  Bulk
Cairo                1.10              12.30       10.60    13.30        11.60
Alexandria /2        2.40               14.16      12.46    15.16        13.46
Suez                 1.90               13.10      11.40    14.10        12.40
Port Said            2.60               13.80      12.10    14.80        13.10
Assillt              4.00               15.20      13.50    16.20        14.50
Aswan                8.00               19.20      17.50    20.20        18.50
/1   Transport charges can vary according to the plant of origin and the
location of the point of delivery even within Cairo.
/2   For cement from plants other than the Alexandria plant; includes
LE 0.56 per ton premium.
/3   Extra charge of LE 1.70 per ton for bags at June-July Kraft prices.
70.       The regional differentials are illustrated in the table.  The
extremely high prices in the more remote areas are obviously potential in-
hibitors to development. Establishing more decentralized plants (Assiut,
Suez) will help to alleviate this imbalance but in the meantime the importance
of efficient and economical distribution is emphasized.
71.       The ex-tax prices of Egyptian cement compare favorably with domestic
prices in other cotntries as well as with the higher international trade price
levels. Increasing world wide inflation and in particular the higher oil
price levels have resulted in cement price increases over 1972/73 levels of
the order of 20%-40% in most countries. Egypt's reasonable price levels are
permitted mainly through a substantial oil price subsidy, resulting in an oil
cost to the cement companies of about 35% of world prices. Also, the
Egyptian plants have comparatively low depreciation charges, and although the
plant labor forces are relatively large, low wage rates yield another cost
advantage.
72.       During 1974, international cement prices reached unprecedented
levels, reflecting not only higher costs of manufacture and transport, but
the high levels of international demand in relation to export capacity. Bagged
prices in September, 1974 ranged around US$30-35 per ton F.O.B. European ports
with bulk prices $9-12 lower. It is generally expected that the regional



ANNEX 3
Page 24
supply/demand imbalance will be substantially corrected over the next few
years, with a number of new plants coming on-stream, particularly in the
Mediterranean and Persian Gulf area. Trading price levels for bulk cement
could then fall back to about $16-20 per ton F.O.B. For bagged cement the
most likely price is between US$25-30 per ton. Export prices are unlikely
to fall substantially below the general level of domestic prices in the long
term, although they have generally been at somewhat lower levels and during
some periods the combination of strong international competition and domestic
supply/demand imbalances has resulted in marginally costed export prices.
Owing to the recent astronomical rise in shipping rates, the C.I.F. Alexandria
price is hard to assess. However, assuming a future lowering of time charter
rates and unloading costs to US$7 per ton for bagged cement, the C.I.F. long-
term Alexandria price could be about US$32 (September, 1974 prices). This
compares with a bagged price at the Alexandria plant of LE 11.75 (US$29.99),
including the Alexandria premium.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



ANNEX 3
Table 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEENT EXPANSION PROJECT
CEMENT PRODUCTION CAPACITY IN EGYPT
AND ACTUAL PRODUCTION (1900-19731
Installed         Total Annual           Actual
Capacity           Theoretical           Arnnual
Year               Incremental          Capacity          Production
1900                 100,000          100,000                n. a.
1929                 160,000          160,000               70,484
1930                 180,000          340,000              196,000
1932                 110,000          450,000              252,000
1936                 175,000          625,000              330,000
1947                 140,000          765,000              641,000
1948                 120,000          885,000              780,000
1949                 130,000        1,015,000              876,000
1950                 120,000        1,135,000            1,,019,000
1951                 135,000        1,270,000            1,118,000
1955                 150,000        1,420,000            1,375,000
1957                 500,000        1,950,000            1,415,000
1960/61              360,000        2,310,000            2,295,000
1961/62                 -           2,310,000            2,266,000
1962/63              150,000        2,460,000            2,376,5000
1963/64               40,000        1,500,000            2,622,000
1964/65                -            2,500,000            2,411,000
1965/66                -            2,500,000            2,578,000
1966/67              200,000        2,700,000            2,661,000
1967/68            1,000,000        3,700,000            2,904,000
1968 69                -            3,700,000            3,485,000
1969/70              300,000        4,000,000            3,627,800
1970/71                -            4,000,000            3,813,800
July 1971)18
Dec. 1972))months                   6,000,000            5,772,600
1973                   -            4,000,000/1          3,617,000
/1   Actual production capacity has been revised downward to 3,850,000
tons per year due to the extreme age of some of the equipment at
the Tourah and Helwan plants.
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT                                      ANNEX 3
PL,NENSD EXTENSION AND NEW CI1ENT PLkqTS/2                               Table 2
Ncirii nal
Capacity                            Expected Production Per Year (000 to11s
Projects         (000 tons)     1974    1975    1976    1977    1970    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    198L-
Existing Plants      3,850       3,500/2 3,850   3,850   3,850   3,700o3 3,600   3,500   3,500   3,500   3,500   3,500
1.  Natio nal
Tabiew             850                                   510     600      850     850      850     850      G,;     850
2.  Alex.
bxtension         300                                    180     240      300     300      300     300      3G0     300
3.  Tourah
Extension          72U                                           430      580      720     720      720     7LO     720
4.  Cairo/L
New Plant        1 ,000                                          300      700      850   1,000   1,000   1 ,00W    1 Oa
5.  Suez
New Plant        1,000                                                    300      700     850   1,000   1 ,000   1,0C0
6. Alex.
New Plant           500                                                             150     350      425     50] XC
7. Assiut
New Plant           500                                                                     300      400     500      J00
Total Capacity/-
and Production-         -         3,500   3,850   3,850   4,540   5,350   6,330   7,070   7,870   8,195   0,370   d,3?&
Notes:
/1  This is contingent upon the findings of the proposed Market and iCistributiori Study, to be carried GUt by or cr
behalf of the Government.
/2  During 1970 production may be reduced to about 90% of capacity due to shortages of paper sacks anc spare parts.
/3  A gradual decrease of production from existing plants can be expected because of the decline in efficiency of
old machinery.Production is expected to level off as replacement parts becane available.
/   50i of the production from the  Cairo    new plant will be exporteu to Kuwait by contract aereemer a.
/  Production figures for the new projects are based on
60;a output in 1 st year
80     "      2nd
100,5  '       3rd
Industrial Prcj,ects Department
October, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT                      ANNEX 3
Table 3
INVEST11ENT, CONSTRUCTION AND DIRECT CEMENT 500SUMPTION BY
SECTOR (1971/72) WITH TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Range of Coefficients
Direct             (1967/68 to 1971/72)
Invest-    Construc-        Cement                      Cement Consumption
ment      tion hxen.  Consumtion  Constr. Expend.  Constr. Expenditure
Sector         (LE mill.)  (LE mi.)  (000 t.)           Investment      (tons/LE 000)
Agriculture,
Irrigation
& Drainage     44.0         20.5       297   11.3       47-60            10.9-15.1
Industry,
Mining &
Petroleum     145.4         49.2       850   32.2       25-40            15.6-17.3
Electricity     21.3          1.6        22    0.8        8-46            13.8-16.3
Transport &
Communication  79.6         37.1       262    9.9       34-47             7.1- 7.9
Trade &
Finance        11.0          2.1        24    0.9       15-71            10.0-11.4
Housing         29.8         28.7       302   11.4       88-98            10.5-10.9
Public Utilities 16.9        10.1       100    3.8       51-80             9.'i-10.0
Other Services
(incl. Con-
struction &,
Defense        27.0         81.0       580   22.0         -/1             7.2-10.5/1
Installation
of Machinery     -           9.5        -      -          -
Maintenance &
Other Uses       -          20.0       200    7.6
375.0       259.8     2,639  100.0       63-69            10.2-11.4
L   Construction expenditure exceeded investment from 1967/68 due to current
expenditure on defense installations.  Prior to this time the coefficients
for "other services" were 46%-52% and abcut 10-11 respectively. The total
construction expenditure to investment ratio is therefore also distorted.
Source: Ministry of Planning
Industrial Projects Department
October, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
HISTORIC INVESTMENT, CONSTRUCTION EXPENDITURE AND CEMENT CONSUMPTION BY SECTOR
1967/68                        1968/69                            1969/70                         1970/71                                  1971/72
Direct
Cement                        D.C.                             DnC.                                D.C.                                      D.C.
Sector~Constr. Consump-                             Constr. Consump-                 Constr. Consump-                 Constr.   Consump-                       Constr.     Consump-
Sector           Invest.l/  ExF 1/   tion        Invest.  E        __ ion        Invest.   Exp.      tion          Invest.                  on            Invest.     Exp_ tion
- - - LE Mill. - -  000 t.)   - -LE Mill.--    (000 t.)          - - LE Mill.- -  (000 t.)        - - LE Mill. - -   (000 t.)            -  -  1.E Mill. - -    (000 t.)
Agriculture,
Irrigation
& Drainage            62.5       35.0        383       67.6    39,1      449          61.3       36.5         454       53.3       24.3         368           44.0        20.5          297
7ndustry &
Mining                85.8       26.1        430      101.1    25.3       418        123.1       47.0          731     125.7        50.4        867           145.4       49.2          850
Electricity            52.9       17.8        270       31.9    14.8       219         27 .3       7.3         119       23.1        4.8          68           21.3         1.6           22
Transport &
Communication         38.3       15.4        121       69.5    23.7      185          71.4       29.5         230       81.2       34.8         267           79.6        37.1          262
Trade &
Finance                0.7        0.5          5        2.7      1.2       12          3.6        2.4          24        9.5         1.4         16           11.0         2.1           24
Housing                41.7       36.9        401       46.9    42.5       462         36.5       35.7         379       26.5        24.0        252           29.8        28.7          302
Public
Utilities              4.)        2.3         23        5.8      3.6       35         10.9        5.6           51       16.8       13.4        126            16.9       10.1          100
Other Services
(incl. Con-
struction)           11.9       35.3 3/    257        18.0    ;9.7 3/  448           21.4       61.1 3/      640       24.9       67.4 3/    644             27.0       61.0 31        580
Installation
of Machinery            -         3.7        -          -        3.8                    -         4.4           -          -         6.0         -               -         9.5           -
Maintenance &
Other Uses              -        13.3        134        -       34.0      led           _        15.0          148         -        19.0        196              -        20.0          200
Sub-total   2/        298        186.3      2.014      343.5   227 .7   2.369         355.5      244.5       2,776       361.0      245.5      2,804           375.0      259.8        2,639
Cement Products                               4L -b                        268                                  284                              299                                      305
Tota'                                 2,432                        2.637                                3,060                            3,103                                    2,944
1/ Investment and construlctiOn figtures at current prices.
2/  InvestmenL totals exclude adjustment for land purcnases
3/  "Other Services" incluides defense:  -onstrLction expenditure higher than investment (1967/68)    due to  current expenditures on construction for defense purposes.
c 3
Industrial Projects Department
August. 1974



C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~T1  5 
4              N    E    o    N    4    4       D    N                oo t N    -f    0    40    4 
_OI            o J CC  CC  oC  *t   CC                         N        I       ,C   4    CS   NO        N 
a a2
CC   4    N    -    N    4    CC                    N        u      ,      C 4         C C   N  4  N1 N    4    Ul  C
40             N_   .C   0    No   _C                                                   0
4    N    Ns o  u,                         N r                         Nt   rC   N1    oN _     Nn z
_ °cC)                                   -=O                    X        |       m    
_~~ ~ ~                                 N g4      tN                            0       4    N     4
4U                       N          C               4                 N     C    4    NCO
Oo             N V 91           N 1_ 14N  N     CC%        N                CC a  C N  °   4N Rl
4.   CC                  N          CC    N o ~      <N  0 N    CC                             1- N
CC)I Nl                  Os    0 o  C   N    CC   CC           CC No   CC   0 cl 401   c
-|                  N    N    N      C 4              N        C-  N l            C_,N   4  N| N  'C| Ul| 
0              N    0    4l2C 4 <    N    k0C   4    CC    1N                          t 0|    
I  1 NoN N CC I CCC                                                                     0    NO uCr    oC     il.10
_C o                                                                                      No                        -   h n N O 1   I) 0  l o   l c 
C    CC-                 C ,C4 0                     _       I        _          , i  O    .
00 CC C                  CQC
oCC            'C    C    CC         C)    > C    ,C)   '     CC       C    C    NC        C                  C
-CC C      N    C    C,               0 a    C    C     CC      CO vC   .<'o <> ,    
NCo.,    C.  'C    C    =    CC                  0.0        NC      C        C    q o ~ C                S                 CCv
01 CDC    C    C    C    C    C    4    oC                   . C        CC            C   '  oC  CC                     CCo
Cr      CON        C    N    C    IC    C  - C    C'C           CC       CO            C     CC                         CCO



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT                        ANIMEX 3
Table 6
CEMENT CONSUMPTION PER CAPITAL vs. GNP PER CAPITA FOR
SELECTED COU4TRIES/1I - 1971 & 1972
Apparenrt Germerit~
Country               Consumptiron/Cap./2(.kg)      GNP/CaPita (us$) A
1971         1972           1971/L.2.72
Egypt                     7L            84            220          240
iMorroco                 104           102            260          270
Algeria                  102           117            360          430
Turkey                   178           197            340          370
Yugoslavia               295           305            780          810
-ormania                 371          404            740           810
Portugal                 275           300            730          780
Tunisia                  110           122            320          380
Sudan                     12            12            120           120
Ethiopia                   6             7             80           80
Somalia                   24            19             70           80
Kenya                     35            44            160          170
Jordan                   139           149            260          270
Syria                    199           201            290          320
Lebanon                  334           407           660           700
Yemen                     20            21             90          100
Iraq                     125           128            370          370
Iran                      96           119            L50          490
India                     27            28            110          110
Pakistan                  47            5             130          130
/1  Countries with GAP/Capita less than U6TS1 ,000 per annmrn; emnhasis on E-urope,
Middle East and N. Africa; excluding those countries where high oil revenues
and small population substantially distort figures.
1   Gerabureau Statistical Review, 1973.
/ World Bank Atlas, 1973.
_ IBRD: Economic Analysis and Projections Dept.; base data for 'world Bank
Atlas, 1974.
Industrial Projects Deoartaeort
October, 197h



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENTI EXPANSION PROJECT                  ANNEX 3
Table 7
EGYPT' S EXPORT MARKET SHARE - SELECTED COUNTRIES
Country                                             Year
1969         1970         1971         1972         1973
(68-69)      (69-70)      (70-71)      (71-72)
Libya
Lmports (total)/1     750,000      405,000      538,000    1,354,000    1,803,000
From EgrptL            49,500       67,236      102,824       257,915      353,005
% share                 6.6         16.6          19.1         19.0         19.6
West Africa
Imports                 n.a.     2,180,000    2,930,000    2,550,000    2,654,000
From Egypt             84,998      135,414       216,405      124,986     = 20,489
% share                  -           6.2          7.4           4.9          0.8
Saudi Arabia
Ixmports              560,000      464,000      550,000       299,000      350,000
From Egypt            2400,826      1 4,700      31,129       124,088       91,590
, share                43.0          3.2           5.7         41.5         26.2
Lyria
Imports                 n.a.        75,000      374,000       400,000      600,000
From Egypt             24,755       50,255      101,104       110,872        2,298
% share                  -          67.0         27.0          27.7          O.li
Yugoslavia
Imports             1,075,000    1,643,000    1,395,000       892,000      869,oOo
From Egypt             67,470      262,169       258,636       53,985        nil
% share                 6.3         16.0          18.5          6.1          nil
Poland
Imports               320,000      311,000      614,000    1,240,000    1,633,000
from Egypt                            -             -         129,482       19,400
% share                 nil          nil           nil         l0.4          1.2
/1  Total import figures fromn Gembureau Statistical Review, 1973.
77  Egy-tian figures from Tourai feasibility study.
Industrial Projects Departrment
October, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
EGYPTIAN CEMENT EXPORTS AND EXPORT MARKETS
Year
Country                 1962-63    1963-64    1964-65    1965-66    1966-67    1967-68    1968-69    1969-70    1970-71    1971-72
Sudan                    16,498      11,865     72,900      11,200     15,885         500     13,559       2,000      1,280         500
Palestine (Gazza)        30,046      38,651     43,153      63,965     63,866         -          -           -          -           -
Saudi Arabia             79,239      20,131     39,880     82,330      48,220    107,213    240,826      14,700      31,129    124,088
Libya                    22,405       2,510      2,000      11,250      9,250    104,695      49,500     67,236    102,824    257,915
Cyprus                    7,315       2,000        -           -          -          -            40      6,420         600        -
Aden                     46,310       4,855      3,465      16,980     15,100     41,024      27,012       5,450      2,750       5,600
Yemen                      9,100      9,838      4,933      25,193     45,200      31,740     17,150       9,490     35,489      15,725
Kuwait                    4,280       2,378        -        60,800     31,750    109,721      87,884         -          -           -
Somalia                   2,469         -          -           -        1,500         -        5,900       1,000      7,400       6,775
Ceylon                       -                -          -                -        5,630      51,057         -          -        17,550
West Africa               25,015      8,850     24,878      51,270     23,665      28,900     84,998    135,414    216,405    124,986
Lebanon                      500        -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -
San Morinas                  -          -          -        10,305      3,360         -          -           -          -           -
Djibouti                     -          -          -         1,500      3,500       8,761      7,700         _          _        14,000
Qatar                        -          -           -          -       10,000      24,200     36,140         -          -           -
Al Makla                     -          -           -          -          -         2,800        -           -
Al Bahrain                   -          -           -          -          -        20,700        -           -          -           -
Dubai and Abu Dhabi          -          -          -           -          -        25,027     71,340      25,270     19,572      39,030
Tanzania                     -          -           -          -          -           700        -           -          -           -
Cambodia                     -          -          -           -          -         4,500        -           -          -           -
Syria                        -          -          -           -          -           -       24,755      50,255    101,104    110,872
Turkey                       -          -           -          -          -           -       70,890     41,200         -           -
Yugoslavia                   -          -           -          -          -           -       67,470    262,169    258,636       53,985
Iraq                         -          -          -           -          -           -        4,000         -          -           -
Albania                      -                                 -          -           -          -         4,000     12,470       4,420
Hungary                                 -          -           -          -           -          -           -       44,350
Malta                        -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -        2,400         690
Brazil                                  -           -          -          -           -          -         4,500      9,300
Bulgaria                     -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -       49,960      49,650
Spain                        --                     -          -          -           -          -                    3,650         -
Poland                                  -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -       129,482
Germany                      -          -           -                                                 _                           9,000
Panama                                                                                                       -          -         5,500
Jordan                            -                -           -          -           -          -           -          995       1,232
Other Countries           15,000     31,000     20,000      18,100     17,000       4,000        -           -          -           -
TOTAL      258,177    132,078    211,209    353,093    271,296    600,111    867,686    629,104    900,314    971,000
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CE1'NT EXPANSION PROJECT
PROJECTED CJ&ENT SUPPLY/DEMAND SITUATION: 1974-1984
(000 tons)
Year              1974     1975     1976      1977     1978     1979     1980    1981      1982     1983      1984
Projected
Production     3,500    3,850    3,850    4,540    5,350    6,330    7,070   7,870    8,195    8,370    8,370
Projected
Domestic
Demand         3,029    3,109    4,138    5,778    6,196    6,533    6,581   6,774    7,515    7,827    8,325
Import
Requirements     -        0        288    1,238       996      553      -       _ -                -        460
Exports-           471      741      -         -        150      350      489   1,096       680      543      500
/1 Including committed exports to Kuwait.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                     CDO 
October, 1974



ANNEX 3
Taib2e 10
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF EGYPTIAN CEMENT OFFICE
G. 0. B. M.
PATONRAH             PESNHELWAN              N                  L                     EXPGRTSALES               A        LEXA NDRIAM
CEMIENTCO.            CEIMENTCO.                                                                              CEMENT CO.           CEMENTCO.
|COMMITTEE FORt ORGANIZING|
GENERAL
MANAGER
MANAGER
COMMERCIAL  |TRASPR
PLANNING 1              PERSNE                FINANCIA;L71         LOCAL SALES             EXPORT SALES         AEXANDRIA             MAINTENANCE
| MANAGER                 MANAGER                                        MANAGER            MANAGER    |      RNH MANAGER ||           MANAGER
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
AUGUST, 1974                                                                                                                             World Bank-8936



EGYPT
TOURAH CE1ENT EXPANSION PROJECT                     ANNEX 3
Table 11
CEMENT DISTRIBUTION COSTS BY REGION
Cement/             Approx.            Official          Approx.
Sales /1         Distances-/          Transporl        Cost Pq
Region                (1971-72)       Place         _Km       Tariff.5-L       Ton-Km--
t000 tons                               LE/ton             LE
Cairo                   1,434       Cairo         12-30       0.60-1.10       0.04 - 0.05
Delta                     875       Menofia          80         1.65             0.02
Damietta        210         2.30             0.01
Alexandria-               346       Alexandria  210-230       1.85-1.40           0.01
Suez and Sinai            110       Port Said   230-250       2.00-2.60           0.01
Ismailia       150          1.75             0.01
Suez           160          1.90             0.01
Upper Egypt               404       Bani-Suef    80-100       1.30-2.00          0.02
Assuit      320-340       3.30-4.00          0.01
Aswan          900          8.00             0.01
/1  Shipped by all modes.
7i  Not necessarily typical or average distances to points in each region, but
indicative of range and order of magnitude. Distances are by road from
plants south of Cairo (Helwan, National, Tourah).
/3  By truck as from March, 1974.
7T  Data does not include shipments from Alexandria plant.
Industrial Projects Department
October, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CGEENT EXPANSION PROJECT                            AdNEX 3
Table 12
CEMENT PRICES AND TAXES
Price/ton                     LE                                         Price/ton
Bulk                   Treasury Tax                                      Bulk
Ex-factory      Production   Equalization   Total      Reinvestment      Ex-factory
Type of Cement           Before Tax         Duty          Tax          Tax           Tax           After Tax
(LE)                                                                    (_LE)
CEMENT PRICES AND TAXES 1965-1969
Ordinary Portland          4.10             1.40           -          1.40            -              5.50
Supercrete                 5.10            1.40            -          1.40            -              6.50
Superfine 4100             5.60             1.40           -          1.40            -              7.00
'Seawater                  5.65             1.40           -          1.40            -              7.05
Low Heat                   5.60             1.40           -           -              -              7.00
Blast Furnace & Karnak     5.0o              -             -           _              _              5.00
'kiite                    16.10             1.40           -          1.40            -             17.50
CEMENT PRICES AND TAXES 1969-1972
Ordinaty Portland          5.10             1.40           -          1.40            -              6.50
Supercrete                 6.10             1.40           -          1.40            -              7.50
Superfine 4100             6.60             1.40           -          1.40            -              8.oo
Seawater                   6.65             1.40           -          1.40            -              8.05
Low Heat                   6.60             1.40           -           1.40           -              8.00
Blast Furnace & Karnak     5.00              -             -           -              -              5.00
Wihite                    17.10             1.40           -          1.40            -             18.50
CS4ENT PRICES AND TAXES, FEBRUARY 12, 1972 TO MARCH 8, 1974
Ordinary Portland          5.10             1.40           1.00       2.40            -              7.50
Supercrete                 6.10             1.40           1.00       2.40            -              8.50
Suoerfine 4100             6.60             1.40           1.00       2.40            -              9.00
Seawater                   6.65             1.40           1.00       2.40            -              9.05
Low Heat                   6.60             1.40           1.00       2.40            -              9.00
Blast Furnace & Karnak     5.50              -             1.00       1.00            -              6.50
Itite                     16.60             1.40           1.00        2.40           -             19.00
C7NEBNT PRICES AND TAXES AFTER MARCH, 1974
Ordinary Portland          6.25             1.40           1.10       2.50            0.75           9.50
Supercrete                 7.25             1.40           1.10       2.50            0.75          10.50
Superfine 4100             6.25             1.40           1.10       2.50            0.75          11.50
Seawater                   8.25             1.40           1.10       2.50            0.75          11.50
Low Heat                   8.25             1.40           1.10       2.50            0.75          11.50
Blast Furnace & Karnak     6.15              -             1.10       1.10            0.75           8.oo
'White                    17.25             1.40           1.10        2.50           0.75          20.50
Source: Egyptian Cement Office
Industrial Projects Degartment
October, 1974



EGYPT                              ANNEX 3
Table 1Y3
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
EXPORT PRICEASL PER TON
PORTLAND AND -WHITE CEMENT 1965766-1 971/72
Portland           White
Year              Cement             Cement
- _     (E)- - - -
1965/66            5.189               11.900
1966/67            5.322               10.900
1967/68            4.617               11.606
1968/69            4.810               13.4oo
1969/70            4.076               10.800
1970/71            4.094               11.50o
1971/72             4.486              12.300
1973               8.114              12.900
Source: Egyptian Cement Office
/1 F.O.B. prices; bagged cement.
Industrial Projects Department
October, 1 974



ANNEX 3
Chart 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
SUPPLY/DEMAND COMPARISON
9                                                                        9
8~~~~~~~~
ProJ ected
Production
(Capacity)
a   6                            - ""/ ;0 -                                         6
0
Sectoral Project-, 
ion (incl. Suez) -'                            Macro-economic
00 \,'  /    ##lPojections
high
5                 0                        ~~~~~~me diu m5
0                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow 
o iX  *    *  #> J Sectoral Proiection
(excl. Suez
~ 4 _4
o~~~~~~~~o
3                                                                    _   3
2                                                                        2 1
I   t_   |    I     .                                               1 
1 974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Year
Industria a7 rojects Department
August, 197h



ANNEX 4-1
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
RAW MATERIAL AVAILABILITY AND ANALYSIS
A.   Introduction
1.        TCC draws its limestone from the virtually unlimited reserves of
an immense deposit which stretches about 30 km along the east bank of the
Nile and extends eastward into the Eastern Desert. The deposit belongs to the
well-known 'Mokkatam Formation" (DJebel Moccatam), which shows outcroppings
stretching from the east bank of the Nile from Cairo down to Minia, south of
Helwan (see Map IBRD 11196). The deposit was already well known in ancient
times; in fact, the Tourah limestone quarry ranks among the oldest in the
world: Papyrus notes from the VI Dynasty about 2000 B.C. in Egypt bear
witness to the daily life of quarry men at Tourah. At this early time,
Tourah limestone was quarried as building stone and later on for small-scale
lime production. Since 1928, the deposit has been exploited for the prod-
uction of Portland cement by the Tourah Portland Cement Company (TCC).
2.        In 1969, TCC hired the Polish Foreign Trade Enterprise, Polimex-
Cekop, to carry out a study to establish the suitability of the limestone
as raw material for the production of lime in modern production facilities.
This study included (i) a geological exploration of the Tourah limestone
deposit, (ii) an evaluation of accessible proven reserves both for the
existing cement factory and a lime plant, projected for a rated capacity of
upto 1,000 tpd, and (iii) a technical feasibility study for the lime project.
Within the framework of this study, detailed geological and topographical
maps were prepared, samples collected and analyzed, and the results of the
study recorded in a substantial report. No problem is envisaged with regard
to the limestone reserves.
3.        Formerly, clay did not represent a problem for cement production
along the Nile, as nearly each year, prior to the construction of the Aswan
High Dam large amounts were deposited by the river. Since then, however,
TCC is limited to the clay deposit, presently exploited. GOBM asked Tourah
to investigate this deposit in detail in order to establish its recoverable
reserves.  It is planned that a new cement plant under separate management
with a rated capacity of 1.0 million TPY would exploit the same deposit as
that used by TCC. However, clay deposits may be limited. TCC is, therefore,
presently carrying out a detailed study of the clay deposit which includes
geological exploration and chemical analyses of samples in the laboratories
of TCC.
4.        TCC's geologists and chemists routinely carry out deposit investiga-
tions in both quarries within the process of quarry operations to establish
chemical and mineralogical composition of each batch of materials for quality



ANNEX 4-1
Page 2
control and determination of material variability and resulting short-term
exploitation plans. The personnel are well qualified and ensure smooth
quarry operation.
B.   Limestone Deposit
5.        The Mokkatam Series, an Eocene Carbonate Formation stretching for
more than 30 km along the east bank of the Nile from Cairo, south to Helwan,
Tabbien and Minia, extends eastward into the Eastern Desert to Suez and the
Red Sea. At Tourah, the deposit is between 100 and 120 m. The highest
elevation in the TCC quarry is 195 m above sea level, the exploitation level
at 99 m above sea level. The terrain of the region is rather even. The
current quarry face is located 3 km from TCC's plant. The strata lie
virtually horizontally, their inclination varying between 2° and 5°. One
can clearly distinguish four different layers: the top layer (25 m) consisting
of very homogeneous and hard "building limestone", followed by a layer (40 m)
of soft, flour-like whitish limestone with loaf-like hard embeddings; the
third layer (20 m) from the top, consisting of chalky, snow-white, soft
limestone of great homogeneity, and finally the bottom layer (2 m) of marly
light grey to white limestone of chalky consistency. Compressive strength
varies between 150 and 900 kg/cm2 and density between 1.8 and 2.6 t/m3. The
average physical and chemical composition and other details are given in
tables 1 and 2. Although there is great lateral variation regarding lithology
and faunal contents, the chemical composition shows little variation in lateral
direction. The medium hard material is very brittle and shows a compact,
fine, crystalline structure. It fractures irregularly with a tendency to
sharp-edged splintering. Fracture surfaces are rough and irregular. Scratch
hardness according to Mohs is about 3. A sub-water storage test shows
relatively low water absorption in spite of the chalky structure.
6.        The boring campaign of the Polish investigation of the limestone
quarry included 12 borings with a total length of 600 m. This campaign
blocked out reserves of about 42 million m3 (750 x 800 x 70). Because of
the homogeneity of the material, one can safely assume a reduction factor
of 0.9 for this material to account for waste materials and fissurations.
The cement plant after expansion (2.07 million TPY of cement, equivalent to
1.96 million TPY of clinker) would require 2.65 million TPY of limestone
(1.35 tons of limestone per ton of clinker). At an average density of 2.2
t/m3, this amount is equivalent to 1.16 million m3 per year. The lime plant,
with a rated capacity of about 90,000 TPY of lime, would require another
0.15 million tons (0.07 million m3) of limestone per year. Using the above
determined reserves of 42 million m3, a reduction factor of 0.9, and an annual
limestone consumption of 1.23 million m3 per year, adequate supply for both
plants is assured for 30 years from confirmed limestone reserves. However,
beyond these conformed reserves, there are millions of cubic meters of reserves
to be investigated which would allow operations to continue for a much longer
time. Detailed calculations on limestone reserves are shown in Table 3.
7.        The limestone quarry face, currently worked upon, is about 500 m
long and has an average height of 70 m. With a reduction factor of 0.9 and



ANNEX 4-1
Page 3
a yearly requirement of 1.23 million m3, the quarry face will advance about
25 im per year after full utilization after the expansion project.
i~; Clay Deposit
6.        The clay deposit exploited by TCC is located between the east bank
of the Nile, bounded by a small limestone cliff in the west and the steep
step of the Mokkatam series (limestone) in the east. Within this peneplanation,.
three different layers can be identified, which.result from different geolo-
gical periods: the lower strata built up by oligocene swamps and interrupted
here and there by small sandlenses. This layer was covered by frequent al-
luvial deposits of the Nile floods. Finally, another layer was built by loose
s3urface deposits of eocene limestone erosion. Accordingly, from bottom to
top, a plastic clay layer, followed by a mixed clay layer and a sandy clay
layer are clearly identifiable along the quarry face.
9.        The sandy clay is reddish to yellowish-brown, with a porous and
lumpy structure and irregular grain sizes. The mixed clay is yellowish-brown,
with irreaular grain sizes, but of a dense structure. The fracture sarface
is smooth and is scratchable by fingernail. The plastic clay varies from
greenish grey to dark grey in color, has an irregular grain size and a porous
structure. Surfaces are strongly cleaved. All materials can be crushed by
hand. Under water, the sandy clay disintegrates to a fine sand slurry,
whereas mixed and plastic clay become sticky and somewhat greasy. The physical
andi chemical analyses of the three types of clay are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
10.       The detailed investigation of the clay deposit, currently carried
out by TCC, is supervised by Dr. 14owad Ibrahim Yousif, Professor of Geology
at the Ain Shams University in Cairo.  Currently, the deposit is investigated
vithin the boundaries of TCC's concession area (see Hap IBRD 11196) which
has been split into several lots of varying sizes and shapes. In Area A,
adjacent to the current quarry face, the study has been fully completed,
including boring campaign, sample-taking and chemical analysis of the samples;
thc distance between bore holes is a 50 m grid. WJithin the other plots, the
dis-ance between bore holes varies between 100 and 400 m grids. Samples are
being taken and properly stored for subsequent chemical analyses. Borings
are carried out by manual Auger borers, which are effective in clay. Drilling
cannot continue when the machine hits a sand lens. In such a case, a new
boring must be carried out at another spot. Working depth is up to 75 m.
Borings and sample-taking are carried out with professional expertise.
Table 4 shows details of boring in the various plots and estimated clay
quantities. With the fully investigated plot A reserves, the expanded plant
'iould be able to operate over 30 years whereas, with total quantities
currently researched (including reduction factors), the expanded plant
could operate for over 100 years, provided the chemical analyses show fea-
sil)le composition.
D.   Sand Deposit
11.       Within the concessionary area of TCC there is a sand deposit of
an estimated reserve of more than 3.5 million tons. Sand is used as a third
componenit in some special cement clinkers for the production of (a) high



ANNEX 4-1
Page 4
sulphate resisting cement (specific consumption: 0.168 tons of sand per ton
of clinker); and (b) low heat cement (specific consumption: 0.125 tons of
sand per ton of clinker). The total production of these types of cement is
limited to a maximum of 50,000 tons per year; the total quantity of sand
required per year for this purpose will, therefore, not exceed 7,500 tons
per year. Sand is also used as an additive to clinker and gypsum to be ground
to mixed cement (Karnak). Per ton of cement produced, 0.25 ton of sand is
required. Projected production of Karnak cement after the project is set at
280,000 tons per year. Resulting requirements are projected at 70,000 tons
per year. Thus, total sand consumption after implementation of the expansion
project will be limited to 80,000 tons per year. Therefore, the above deposit
would be sufficient for a period of more than 40 years.
L.   Pyrite Ash
12.       All types of cement produced by TCC regularly require pyrite ash
to increase the iron content of the clinker to improve the characteristics
of the cement. The important chemical components Qf the pyrite ash used
by TCC are as follows:
Iron percent                    58-65
Sulphur percent                  2-3
Humidity, maximum percent       10
The iron component improves the silica and aluminia ratios and is particularly
necessary for low heat cement and sulphate resistent cement. Currently, TCC
buys about 11,000 tons of pyrite per year to produce the following clinker
types: (i) Ordinary Portland cement, clinker (specific consumption: 0.003t
pyrite/t clinker), (ii) Sulphate resistant cement, clinker (specific consump-
tion: 0.021 t pyrite/t clinker), and (iii) Low heat cement, clinker (specific
consumption: 0.035 t pyrite/t clinker). After the expansion project, total
requirements will increase to about 16,500 tons per year. This will not
constitute any problem.
F.   Gypsum
13.       Gypsum is ground together with clinker to act as a retarding agent
in the hydration process of cement. TCC uses on an average about 5 parts of
gypsum with 95 parts of clinker to produce 100 parts of cement. TCC quarries
gypsum in the desert at a location about 20 km south-east of Tourah. Natural
gypsum is available there in abundance as an overburden layer of 40 to 50 cm
thiickness. The material is transported by TCC-owned or hire(d dumping trucks
to the gypstum storage yard within the plant. Currently, TCC consumes about
70,000 tons per year. The consumption will increase to about 105,000 tons
per year after implementation of the expansion project. Meeting this need
will not create a problem.
C.   Blast Furnace Slag
14.       Blast furnace slag is sometimes purchased from the nearby steel
plant at Helwan, if it has a surplus which cannot be sold to the Tabbien or



ANNEX 4-1
Page 5
Helwan cement plants. This is ground in 35 parts with 60 parts of clinker
and 5 parts of gypsum to blast furnace cement.
H.   Raw Material Composition
15.       With the given raw materials as described above, TCC has successfully
produced cement according to internationally-accepted standards for 45 years.
Table 5 shows the types of cement presently produced by TCC and the specific
quantities of raw materials required for these types. Existing facilities
have operated on the wet process, whereas the expansion project will operate
using a dry process. Suitability of the existing raw materials used in the
dry process facilities has been investigated by TCC and three different
equipment suppliers in Europe (F.L. Smidth, Polysius/Krupp, and Humboldt/Wedag).
All these suppliers (who would have to give guarantees on their equipment)
have concluded from various tests and analyses 1/ carried out on samples of
TCC's raw materials that these materials are well suited for the dry process
technology. By means of chemical calculations of theoretical raw mixes, the
suppliers determined similar composition requirements and typical moduli as
are achieved by TCC's wet slurry and the resulting clinker.
16.       The Cl-content of binary clinker (between 0.07 and 0.12%) produced
from the raw materials, combined with an average amount of alkalies (between
0.6 and 0.9%) will, however, probably require a by-pass arrangement for any
short kiln with preheater system to partially discharge gases. Otherwise,
disturbing chloride circuits will form and clogging of the preheater system
through crystallization of alkalies and chlorides will almost certainly take
place and lead to serious disruptions of operations. TCC has sent raw material
samples to equipment suppliers interested in participating in the bidding for
mechanical cement machinery and equipment. This will enable bidders to
analyze and test the materials within their own laboratories and to design
equipment according to the specific characteristics of TCC's raw materials.
Technical bid evaluation will particularly focus on dry process choice and
appropriate design to accomodate TCC's raw material properties.
17.       The fuel oil used for firing the kiln contains about 2.4% of
sulphur. This means that about 0.26% S03 content can be expected in combi-
nation with the raw mix. This rather low component will be balanced by the
existing alkalies so that no disturbing sulphate circuits should occur.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974
1/   Physical, chemical, mineralogical, volatility test.



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
PHYSICAL ANALYSIS OF RAW MATERIAL
LIMESTONE                         SANDY CLAY                                MIXED CLAY                                  PLASTIC CLAY
AVERAGE  LOT 1   LOT 2            AVERAGE   LOT 1  LOT 2                      AVERAGE   LOT 1   LOT 2                     AVERAGE   LOT 1   LOT 2
PHYSICAL COMPOSITION
a.   Moisture
Natural Moisture (%)            3.4     n.e.1l)    .e.             24.0     n.e.  n.e.                        21.5      n.e.    n.e.                       26.7       n.e.   n.e.
Moisture (%) after 24 hours   n.e.    n.e.    16.6                  n.e.   35.1   n.e.                         n.e.      n.e.   36.6                        n.e.      n.e.  44.0
storage under water
Moisture (%) after 3 days       n.e.    6.3       n.e.              n.e.   48.3   n.e.                        48.3       n.e.    n.e.                       n.e.    45.1    n.e.
storage
b.   Exterior Characteristics
Color                           Snow white to yellowish            Reddish to yellowish                         Yellowish brown                          Greenish to dark grey
white                              brown
Structure                       Fine - crystalline, com-           Irregular grain, lami-                       Irregular grain, com-                    Irregular grain, porous
pact, chalklike, dense             nated, porous but compact                    pact, bumpy                              but compact
Surface                         Rough, irregular                   Smoth                                        Smooth                                   Cleaved
Hardness                        Brittle, medium hard               Softish                                      Softish                                  Somewhat plastic, disintegratable
(3 as per Mohs)                    Disintegratable by hand                      Disintegratable by hand                 by hand
Splintering with sharp
c.   Grindability Test               edges
Grinding fineness in            n.e.    n. e.    9.8               n.e.       n.e.  15.2                        n.e.    n.e.    9.6                      n.e.  n.e.          10.6
% residue on 0.09 screen
Resulting spec. power           n.e.    n.e.      9.6              n.e.       n.e.   5.4                        n.e.    n.e.    9.6                      n.e.  n.e.          10.5
requirement in KWh/t
1) n.e. = not executed.
Industrial Projects Department
July) 1974



EGYPT
TOURA8 CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT                                                  Table 2
CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF RAW MATERIALS
LIMESTONE                          SANDY CLAY                         MIXED CLAY                            PLASTIC CLAY
i/    V       3
AVERAGE  LOT 1 LOT 2                AVERAGE  LOT 1 LOT 2               AVERAGE LOT 1  LOT 2                  AVERAGE  LOT 1  LOT 2
CHEMICAL COMPOSITION (l)
SiO2                 4.29  2.41    2.36                54.3  58.37   61.19                 53.9   56.73   55.29                   52.3   52.14   51.40
Al203                 0.64  0.11    1.44                16.5   17.94   14.19                17.2   18.64   19.32                  16.5   18.04   21.52
Fe203                 0.32  0.16    0.28                10.3   8.98    9.04                 10.6    9.42    9.72                   9.38    9.58    9.55
CaO                  50,8  53.38   52.01                 2.19   2.00    2.54                 2.41    2.10    1.60                  2.05    3.85    1.92
mgo                  0.81  0.97    1.21                  2.07   2.73    3.60                 2.01    3.14    3.05                  2.00    3.44    3.35
Loss on Ignition     42.0  42.63   42.54                 8.08   5.53    5.15                 9.05    6.00    7.43                 10.20    8.92    9.37
Subtotal        98.86 99.66   99.84                 93.44  95.55   95.71                95.17   96.03   96.41                 92.43   95.97   97.11
TiO2                  0.06  0.03    0.08                 1.85   1.88    1.87                 1.74    1.56    1.90                  1.78    1.82    1.63
Mn203                  _     _       _                    _      _       _                     _      _       _                     _       _       _
K20                   0.09  0.04    0.06                 1.41   1.30    1.39                 1.31    1.25    1.39                  1.35    1.23    1.17
Na20                  0.24  0.09    0.14                 1.57   1.32    1.58                 1.4    1.25    1.17                   1.25    1.12    1.17
C1                    0.18  0.07    0.11                 0.078  0.09    0.16                 0.074   0.08    0.09                  0.04    0.04    0.08
So                    0.08  0.10    0.33                0.04   0.03    0.22                  0.08    0.03    0.19                  0.17    0.22    0.60
2°5                 0.06  0.02    n.e.4)                0.04   0.15    n.e.                 0.04    0.15    n.e.                  0.03    0.18    n.e.
Total            99.57]M.01  100.56                 98.43 100.32  100.93                99.81  100.35  101.15                 97.05  100.58  101.76
Caco3 Titrated       93.4  97.00   84.3                  2.5    1.25   n.e                   2.1     2.00    n.e.                  3.3    4.50    n.e.
CaCO3 Calculated     90.7195.28   92.88                  3.91   3.57   1.57                  4.30    3.75    2.86                  3.66    6.87    3.43
MgCO3 Calculated      1.69  2.03    2.53                 4.32  5.71   7.52                   4.20    6.57    6.37                  4.18    7.20    7.00
Silica Ratio         4.5   8.93    1.4                   2.0   2.03   2.63                   1.9    1.92    1.90                   2.0     1.77    1.65
Alumina  Ratio        2.0  0.68    5.1                   1.6   2.21   1.57                   1.6    2.14    1.99                   1.8     2.07    2.25
1/  Average:  Sample test run 2 years ago by TCC.
2/   Lot 1: Sample test run by European Equipment suppliers in 1973
3/  Lot 2: Sample test run by European Equipment suppliers in 1974.
br n.e. - not executed.
Industrial Projects Department
July,197L



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
LIMESTONE DEPOSIT -- RESERVES
I.   RESERVES OF LIMESTONE
1.)  Blocked-out, investigated reserve (m3):  750 x 800 x 70 = 42 million m3
2.)  Blocked-out, investigated reserve (t)        42 x 2.2 t/m3 = 92.4 million tons
3.)  Reduction factor                                              90%
4.)  Reduced quantity confirmed          (t)                       83.2 million tons
5,)  Further reserves within concession
area                               (m3): 1200 xllOO x 70 = 92.5 million m3
6,.)  Further reserves within concession
area                               (t)                    =203.3 million m3
7.)  Reduction Factor                                              60%
8.)  Reduced quantity indicated          (t) :                    122.2 million tons
II.   DEMAND FOR LIMESTONE
1.)  Specific Requirement:                                 1.35 tons of limestone per ton of clinker
2.)  Annual Output of plant:                               2.07 million tons of cement
1.96 million tons of clinker
3.)  Annual Requirement:                                    1.96 x 1.35 = 2.65 million tons per year for cement plant
0.15 million tons per year for lime plant
2.80 million tons per year in total
4.)  Number of years from confirmed
reserves:                                            83.2 : 2.80 = 29.7 years
5.)  Number of years from indicated
reserves: (Within concession area only)                122: 2.80 = 43.6 years
(D N4
Industrial Projects Department
July,1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
CIAY DEPOSIT -- RESERVES
Sub-
I.   RESERVES OF CLAY                      AREA DESIGNATION       A          B      C          D         E          F         G        Total       Z      Total
1.   Square Area (104 m2)                                    14       23.5   17.5         8.1    25.7          8         32        128.8     60      188.8
2.   Minimum Depthl)                                         17        33.5   24         21       32          27         23                 n.a.
3.   Maximum Depth                                           61        70.5   72         58       61          61         54                 n.a.
4.   Average Depth2)                                         42        66     51         40       43          37         35                  30
5.   Resulting Cubic Meters (106 m3)                          5.9      15.5    8.9        3.2    11.1          3.0       11.2                 18
6.   Quantity Wet ($pecific Weight 2.0 t/m3) (million)   11.8          31.0   17.8        6.4    22.2          6.0       22.4      117.6     36      153.6
7.   Quantity Dry (Reduce by 20%) (million)                   9.5      24.8   14.2        5.1    17.8          4.8       17.9       94.1     28.8   122.9
8.   Number of Borings                                       48        16      5         15        7           4         18                 n.a.
9.   Borings per Area (No.|104 i2)                            3.4       0.7    0.3        1.9      0.3         0.5        0.6               n.a.
10.   Total Length of Borings (row 4 x row 8)               2000      1050    250        600      300         150        630      4980       n.a.
11.   Reduction Factor for Dry Quantities (%)                 95        70     70         85       70          70         50                   30
12.   Reduced Quantity, Dry (million t)           .            9.0      17.4   10.0        4.4    12.5          3.3        8.9       65.5       8.5    74
II.   DEMAND FOR CLAY
1.   Specific Requirement:  0.3 tons of dry clay per ton of clinker
2.   Annual Output:           2.07 million tons of cement
Annual Output:          1.96 million tons of clinker
3.   Annual Requirement:    0.59 million tons of dry clay
4.   Number of years from Reserve A.            9.0    0.59  =   15.3 years
5.   Nutber of years from Reserve A & C:    19.0:  0.59  =   32.2 years
6.   Number of years from Subtotal A to G:  65.5:  0.59           111.0 years
7.   Number of years from Total Reserves:   74   :         O.59  =  125.l years
1)  Minimum, maximum depth as achieved with "Auger" manual borer.
2)  Average depth has b.en prepared on the basis of all borings carried out in the particular area.
Current height of working face in existing quarry is 35 m on the average.
Indus trial Project-s Depa'tircnt
July 1974



EGYPT
TCRJRAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
COMPOSITION OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF CLINKER AND CE4ENT IN TOC s PRODUCTION
I.  Cement Types                    Ordinary        Rapid      Mixed       Blast       Super-   Sulphate         Low
Portland    Hardening   Cement       Furnace      Fine      Reaisting      Heat
Cement       Cement    (Karnak)    Cement        Cement      Cement       Cement
II. Clinker used and
Composition of Raw Materials       --Ordinary Portland Cement Clinker ---                    Special       Special
(tons per ton of clinker)                                                                 Clinker       Clinker
1.)  Limestone                          1.340       1.340       1.340      1.340       1.340       1.326        1.365
2.)  Clay                               0.310       0.310       0.310      0.310       0.310       0.126        0.198
3.)  Pyrite Ash                         0.003       0.003       0.003      0.003       0.003       0.021        0.035
4.)  Sand                                -           -            _         -           -          0.i68        0.12%
Total                             1.653       1.653      1.653       1.653       1.653       1.641        1.723
III.  Cement Composition
(Tons per ton of cement)
1.)  Clinker                            0.95        0.95        0.70       o.60        0.95        0.95         0.95
2.)  Gypsum                             0.05        0.05        0.05       0.05        0.05        0.05         0.05
3.)  Sand                               -           -           0.25       -           -           -            _
4.)  Blast Furnace Slag                 _           _                      0.35
Total                              1.00        1.00        1.00       1.00        1.00        1.00         1.00
Industrtal Projects Department
July 1974
VI 



ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
A.   Utilities
I.   Fuel (Mazout)
1.        Heavy fuel oil (Bunker C -- called "mazout" in Egypt) is supplied
by a pipeline of a diameter of 8" from a Cairo refinery, owned by the General
Organization for Petroleum and is stored in the plant in one of five storage
tanks with a total capacity of 23,000 tons. Currently, TCC uses about 220,000
tons per year. Existing installations are fully sufficient to provide for
the existing as well as expanded plants.
2.        The project design takes into account possible use of gas from the
Abu Gharadig gas fields which already serve industrial complexes around
Cairo. If gas is used in the future as heating fuel, the mazout installations
would be maintained as standby. Table 1 of this Annex gives chemical and
physical characteristics of both "mazout" and gas.
II.   Electricity
3.        TCC is supplied with power by the Cairo Electricity and Gas
Administration (CEGA) and by the Company's own power station. Currently, the
annual power consumption of the existing facilities amounts to about 120
million kWh. Two-thirds of this amount are withdrawn from the Cairo grid
which is owned and operated by CEGA. The sub-station is fed by underground
feeders carrying 11 kV and 300 Amps each. Cost per kWh purchased is LE 0.0062.
The in-plant power station consists of a steam generating plant with a
capacity of 11.8 MW (5 boilers), and a gas generating plant of 3.0 MW (with
5 free piston gas generators). As the power plant is expensive to operate
requiring much maintenance and repair, its load shall be shifted to a new
sub-station (to be supplied under the expansion project) which will also
provide power for the expansion plant itself. The total capacity of this new
sub-station is estimated to be 30 MVA and it will be fed by 6 parallel under-
ground feeders each carrying 300 Amps at 11 k. CEGA is aware of TCC's ex-
pansion plans and related power requirements and will provide the feeder
cables up to the plant site.



ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
III.   Water
4.        Water is currently drawn from the Nile at a rate of 1.28 m 3/sec by
a Company-owned sub-station. This water is used for the following purposes:
(a) preparation of clay slurry;
(b) cooling of miscellaneous machines:
(c) boiler feed in the power plant; and
(d) tap water.
For feeding the power plant boilers, water is demineralized in a new water
treatment unit (1968) by ion exchange at the rate of 10 m3/h. For drinking
water (item (d)), three Peterson filters with a total capacity of 100 m3/h
are used to clean the water. Daily consumption is about 100-180 m3. Further
treatment is provided by adding chlorine. Table 2 of this Annex shows the
analysis of a Nile water sample. The project will replace the old pumping
station by a new one with four pumps of a total capacity of 1.6 m3/sec.
This quantity will be more than sufficient to provide for the requirements
of the expanded plant, as the expansion will operate on the dry process.
B.   Infrastructure
I.   Transportation
5.        TCC's plant is ideally located with regard to transport facilities.
It has road, rail and inland water transport connections at the plant site.
All three modes of transportation provide immediate access to trunk lines:
road:     4-lane highway Cairo-Helwan;
rail:     fast line Cairo-Helwan; at the plant, a station for
passengers is available; and
waterway: the Nile is the main transportation artery through Egypt.
6.        Transportation of cement is the responsibility of Egyptian Cement
Office (ECO - see Annex 3) which owns some road transport equipment and
leases or otherwise contracts for required transport equipment (see distri-
bution chapter of the Annex 3). Tourah has its own fleet of trucks to
carry some raw materials, parts and other items to the plant.
II.   Housing and Recreation Facilities
7.        TCC owns two housing complexes, one situated near the plant site
for management and another near the clay quarry for workers. The majority
of workers live in Tourah and surrounding areas. The plant includes a



ANNEX 4-2
Page 3
building, containing canteen, staff meeting rooms and hospital facilities
for emergencies.  A large public hospital is located about 2 km from the
plant. These facilities are adequate.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



ANNEX 4-2
Table 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSIW FROJECT
FUEL OIL AND GAS ANALYSIS
1)   Fuel Oil Specifications:
Specific gravity at 60°F:  0.952
Viscosity Redwood at 50OC: 721 min.
Viscosity Redwood at 80OC: 180 min.
Flash point (closed):       95.6 0C
Water:                       0.1%
Higher calorific value:    10310 K. cal/Kg
Net calorific value:        9650 K. cal/Kg
Sulphur:                      2.4%
2)   Gas Specifications:
Gas from Abu Gharadig almost free of dust, and available at the
factory at a pressure of 7 atmospheres, has the following compositlol;:
volume:
Methane                     90.93%
Ethane                       6.68%
Ethylene                    0.63%
Propene                      o.60%
Nitrogen                     1.11%
Total                  99.95%
Calorific
Value                      9000 K. cal/Nm3
Industrial Projects Department
August,1974



ANNEX 4-2
Table 2
EGYPT
TOURAH CBMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
NILE WATER ANALYSIS
Total alkalinity as CaCO3          118       ppm
Total hardness as CaO              114"
Calcium hardness as CaO             70
Magnesium hardness as MgO           44
Iron as Fe+                        0.10
Sodium as Na+                       30
Potassium as                        5.5
Chlorides as Cl                     30
Silica as SiO2                     14-5
Conductivity                       345 micro x  1
ohm
Total dissolved solids             236       ppm
Suspension matter maximum          250-300    "
Industrial Projects Department
August 1974



ANNEX 4-3
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.   Process Choice
1.        For the plant expansion facilities, dry process technology has been
selected. The Company's existing facilities, including 6 kilns with a total
capacity of 3,800 TPD of clinker, operate on the wet process technology. In
this process, water is added to the raw materials to form a slurry, but the
water must subsequently be removed by increased heat input. Thus estimated
fuel consumption for the dry process, given TCC's particular raw material
characteristics, will be only 55% of the currently reported consumption of
the existing facilities. At the current world market price of US$57.4 per
ton (US$8.2 per barrel) for heating fuel, this represents a saving of US$3.80
per ton of cement. On the other hand, investment costs are somewhat higher
for a dry process plant (between 5% and 10%) than for a wet process plant of
comparable capacity. Regarding other operating costs, electricity consump-
tion is about 15% higher; and maintenance costs could be slightly higher
(10%) for the dry process operation. All other operating costs are about
the same. See Annex 6-2 for a detailed description of operating costs.
During the first two years, one might also count on a lower output of the
dry process plant due to the fact that the personnel are less familiar with
the new process than with the wet process. Finally, the comparison should
take into account the possibility that if the dry process technology is used,
the particular characteristics of TCC's raw materials might require a by-pass
to prevent build-up of alkali-chloride circuits. This would result in a
loss of production of an estimated 3% to 5% from the same amount of raw
materials used for the two alternatives. In other words, in the dry process
alternative, about 3% to 5% more raw materials must be used to get the same
output and this has been taken into account in the production cost calculations.
2.        An economic analysis has been carried out to compare the merits of
each process in quantitative terms. This includes above considerations and
compares the wet and dry process alternatives in the following fashion:
Capital cost requirements are expressed in constant 1974 prices. Duties and
taxes have been omitted. Operating costs are also expressed in constant
1974 prices. Revenues, at constant 1974 prices, have been calculated based
on an "economic price" of US$32 per ton of bagged cement (see Annex 7-1). The
analysis compares NPV's for the two alternatives and gives the IRR for the
differential cost/benefit streams. The following results have been obtained:



ANNEX 4-3
Page 2
Dry Process          Wet Process
Discount Rate                     Net Present Value    Net Present Value
-------------- LE '000 ---------------
10                                 14,209                10,706
12                                  9,320                 6,773
15                                  4,087                 2,562
17                                   1,585                  549
3.        The incremental economic rate of return of the differential is about
24.4% in favor of dry process even after taking into account losses from a
possibly required bypass. Detailed calculations are shown in Table 1.
4.        The advantages of the dry process expansion become even more pro-
nounced if one considers the possibility of subsequent conversion of existing
wet kilns. Such conversions have been carried out on more than a hundred
kilns throughout the world in recent years. A relatively modest investment
is required to convert the kiln, thereby reducing its specific fuel consump-
tion while, at the same time, increasing its nominal output between 30% and
50%. Based on very tentative quotes from suppliers as well as TCC's own
estimates, capital cost for a conversion would amount to about LE 6 million
at constant 1974 prices (excluding duty and taxes). The economic advantage
of dry process over wet process can be clearly seen from the above table and
this tends to indicate that a conversion of existing facilities should be
considered seriously after the implementation of the expansion project.
B.   Description of New Facilities
5.        The project basically consists of two distinct parts:
Part 1:   The expansion project, designed to increase the capacity
of TCC by 700,000 TPY (from 1.35 million TPY to 2.05
million TPY) including a complete line of cement producing
equipment and related modifications in the plant; and
Part 2:   Independent modifications and modernization of some of
the existing facilities. Naturally, some overlapping
occurs between the two parts of the project, where
overaged equipment is replaced by new equipment which
will accommodate the requirements of the existing as
well as new facilities. The following description will
distinguish the two basic parts of the project wherever
possible and explain any overlapping parts.
I.   Storage Capacity and Flow Rates for Expansion Project by Department
6.        These items are shown in Table 1 of Annex 2-3 and are contrasted
with existing equipment.



ANNEX 4-3
Page 3
II. Summary Description of Project by Procurement Packages
Equipment
7.   (1)  IBRD Package (Package D):  Complete cement machinery and equipment
excluding electrical motors, cabling, and control, but including
supervision of erection, start-up and performance tests; tech-
nical assistance during two years after start-up and training
of key personnel abroad.
(2) Arab Fund Packages:
(a)  Drilling rigs and compressors                   (Package A)
(b)  Shovels, bulldozers and loaders                 (Package B)
(c)  Diesel tractors and semi-trailers               (Package C)
(d)  Electrical equipment and substation             (Package E)
(e)  Laboratory equipment                            (Package F)
(f)  Lathes and tools                                (Package G)
(g)  Milling, shaping and drilling machines          (Package H)
(h)  Hydraulic presses and pipe bending machines  (Package I)
(i)  Heat treatment furnaces                         (Package J)
(j)  Electrical repair workshop                      (Package K)
(k) Replacement of electrostatic filter of
Kiln 6                                        (Package L)
8.        Packages A, B and C comprise equipment for the quarries as described
in section III. Package E includes the substation equipment, electronic control
equipment and all electrical equipment for Package D above, such as motors,
switches, controls and cabling. Packages G, H, I, J and K are required for
mechanical and electrical workshops.
CivilJiee
9.        Buildings and civil works such as foundations for stationary
equipment, cableducts, etc., are to be executed by one of the three civil
engineering contractors, with whom TCC has had previous experience in the
execution of other projects within the plant.
Services
10.       Training of personnel, detailed engineering of equipment, super-
vision of erection, start-up and taking over tests, and technical assistance
during two years after start-up are included in the IBRD package.
11.       Erection, installation and start-up tests are to be carried out by
TCC under the supervision of the equipment supplier.



ANNEX 4-3
Page 4
Ill. Description of the Expansion Project by Department
Department No. 1: Limestone Quarry
12.       The limestone quarry is operated in the conventional way, with an
average working face of 70 m, slightly battered. Drilling rigs drill holes
for dynamite charges; after blasting, oversize blocks are reduced to a certain
maximum size by plaster shooting. Face shovels load the blasted rock onto
semitrailers pulled by diesel tractors, which are discharged by means of a
semi-automatic overhead dumping mechanism, installed at the crusher hopper.
Two drilling rigs, two face shovels and seven diesel tractors with semi-
trailers are needed to replace existing obsolete equipment and also to cater
for the expansion project.
Department No. 2: Clay Quarry
13.       The clay quarry also operates in the conventional fashion, with
bulldozers and front loaders removing overburden, with face shovels digging
intco slightly battered working faces of up to 10 m height which are set in
terraces, and with dump trucks loaded by the shovels and discharging their
loads into the central clay crusher. Currently, trucks have to transport
the clay to the plant, but by the end of the year a new belt conveyor system
will move the clay from a new clay crusher within the clay quarry to the
intermediate stockpile and from there to the clay storage yard (or directly
to the respective hoppers) within the plant. The expansion project will
requiire a heavy duty bulldozer, a face shovel and two tractor loaders.
-Department No. 3: Crushing
14.       One of the existing two limestone crushers, a 1956 F. L. Smidth,
200 t!h limestone crusher will be replaced by a 500 t/h crusher of the
single-stage, double swing-hammer type. It will reduce the medium hard
limestone with a humidity of 3.4% from a maximum size of 1200 mm on any side
to a maximum size of 25 mm. The complete crushing equipment, including a
concrete hopper of at least 70 t capacity, will be installed below quarry
level, thereby reducing noise and dust pollution. Noise pollution will be
further reduced by an appropriate, wear-resisting lining material on the hopper
walls. Dust pollution will be reduced by cyclone and dry filter of suitable
type.
Department No. 4: _Raw Material Handling
15.       The crushed limestone is fed by the crushers' discharge belts onto
an existing system of flexible belt conveyors with a capacity of 500 t/h of
crushed limestone. This system needs modification to accomodate the increased
quantity of limestone required for the expansion project. For this purpose,
the system's capacity would have to be increased to about 750 to 800 t/h.
However, a future possible conversion of existing kilns from wet to dry pro-
cess would increase their output capacity by an estimated 30% to 50%. A



ANNEX 4-3
Page 5
respectively higher production of the existing facilities would require an
appropriate increase in raw materials. Therefore, it has been decided to
increase the conveyor belt system's capacity from 500 t/h to a maximum of
1000 t/h. This is to be achieved by increasing the width of the belt system
from 800 mm to 1000 mm and the speed to a maximum of 2.5 m/sec.
16.       About halfway between limestone quarry and the plant an existing
limestone stockpile of 30,000 t capacity is located. The extraction arrange-
ment, using vibrating feeders which are installed under the center of the
stockpile can only extract 10,000 tons of material, as the crushed limestone
reposes at an angle of about 70° rather than the angle of 45° which had been
assumed to design and calculate the extraction equipment. The expansion
project will modify this design and layout, so that the existing stockpile
capacity can be fully utilized.
17.       Clay will be crushed and then transported on a new belt system of
300 t/h originating at the new clay crusher and meeting the limestone belt
system prior to entering the plant. An intermediate clay stockpile of 10,000
ton capacity is provided in this system which is to be finished by early 1975
and will replace the truck operation currently used.
18.       The belt conveyor systems for limestone and clay will deposit the
raw materials in the existing stockpiles within the plant close to the raw
mill building or directly into the feeding hoppers of the raw mills and wash
mills.
Department No. 5: Raw Material Grinding
19.       The expansion project, using the dry process technology requires
dry raw mills rather than wet slurry mills. Based on preliminary grinding
tests carried out by TCC in different, well-known laboratories, TCC has
decided on two tube mills of 110 t/h capacity each, with at least two
compartments, air separators and adequate heating arrangements. These will
fit into the existing raw mill building. Each will be equipped with elec-
trostatic precipitator for dedusting exhaust gases. The limestone feeding
arrangement for all mills will be modified, as the existing travelling
swivel crane has insufficient capacity. TCC has suggested a belt conveyor
system with vibrating feeders but tender documents invite alternative designs.
20.       The new dry mills will be fed with clay by a special clay feeding
arrangement with a clay feed hopper and weighing facilities. For the wet
process, clay is fed into the mills in the form of slurry which is produced
in wash mills and slurry basins. A necessary modification, independent of
the proposed dry process plant but included in the expansion project, concerns
four slurry elevators to replace overaged equipment in the existing grinding
plant.



ANNEX 4-3
Page 6
Department No. 6: Raw Meal Homogenization and Storage
21.       The ground raw materials (raw mix) will be discharged from the raw
mills by means of pneumatic conveyors and thus be transported to the Homogeni-
zing and Storage Plant.  This plant wil consist of several pairs of double
decker concrete silos, one of each pair serving as homogenizing silo, the
other one as a storage silo for the homogenized raw meal. Homogenization will
be achieved by forced air stirring and mixing. The total capacity will be
about 14,000 tons of raw meal, the appropriate number and dimensions of silo
pairs will be suggested by tenders based on factors such as the timing of
homogenization, chemical control (sample taking) and discharge.
Department No. 7: Kiln Plant
(a) New Facilities
22.       The blended proportioned raw meal will be conveyed by an appropriate
handling system (pneumatic system, screw conveyor, elevator) to a buffer bin
with level indicators. A dosing valve coupled with a weigh feeder will
continuously discharge controlled amounts of raw meal onto a pneumatic conveyor
from where the raw meal is introduced into the preheater system. A dust
collection system, consisting of bag type filters shall be provided for the
feed arrangement. The preheater type has not been decided upon as yet. It
shall be designed to suit the available raw materials regarding alkalies and
chlorides. A by-pass with evaporation cooling tower may have to be provided
to withdraw controlled amounts of dust to avoid build-up of alkali/chloride
circulLs. Tenderers have to state the amount of dust to be withdrawn and
have to make suggestions for adequate disposal of the waste dusts. TCC will
take into account internationally accepted environmental standards for dust
and waste gas disposal. Waste gases are to be cleaned by electrostatic
precipitator down to a level of 200 mg of particles per Nm3 of gas. The
kiln shall be a rotary short kiln, of all welded design, with a nominal
capacity of 2,000 tons of clinker per 24 hours and to operate 330 working
days per year. The kiln shall have a planetary cooler with cooler tubes
incorporated into the kiln shell. The firing system shall provide for
alternative gas and mazout (Bunker C - fuel oil) firing. The size of the
clinker which leaves the clinker cooler will be reduced by a clinker crusher.
The crushed clinker will be conveyed by chain conveyor to the existing clinker
storage yard or directly to the mill feed hoppers. The existing chain con-
veyor system will be modified.
(b) Replacement of Electrostatic Precipitator for Kiln 6
23.       The existing electrostatic filter of Kiln 6 (wet process) operates
at rather poor efficiency due to defects in the inside equipment, deformation
of electrodes and cracks in the concrete casing which have developed over time.
However, the high tension aggregates and the automatic regulators are in
proper conldition. The project will provide for a modification of the existing
filter so that it can attain its optimum efficiency and provide dust control
in line with internationally accepted environmental standards.



ALNEX 4-3
Page 7
Department No. 8: Gypsum Crushing and Handling
24.      tUnder the existing system, a hopper is fed either directly by trucks
coming from the nearby gypsum quarry, or by a crane from the gypsum stockpile.
The uncrushed gypsum is withdrawn from the hopper outlet by an elevator and
conveyed to an existing gypsum crusher of 25 t/h capacity. The crushed gypsum
is discharged into the clinker mill hoppers by a drag chain. The crusher
which is designed to cater to expansion as well as existing facilities
(capacity 75 t/h). The Dragchain Conveyor will also be replaced by a new
one with a capacity of 100 t/h.
Department No. 9: Clinker Grinding
25.       Clinker and gypsum will be fed by chain conveyor into the cement
mill hoppers. Clinker, gypsum and possibly additives will enter the mill via
electronically controlled, separate weigh feeders installed under the appro-
priate mill feed hoppers. Two closed circuit ball mills of a capacity of
65 t/h (Blaine value of 3,000) will be installed in the existing cement mill
building. The capacity of the mills is about 40% higher than the nominal
capacity of other equipment to allow for special cements (higher Blaine
number, or addition of slag or sand for mixed cement). The mills will be
equipped with air separators and cooling system (water). One electrostatic
filter for each mill shall clean exhaust gases down to a level of 50 mg/Nm3
of gas.
26.       Within the old plant, two ball mills from 1932 and 1936, with
capacities of 12 t/h and 15 t/h respecitvely, will be replaced by one ball
mill of 40 t/h with open circuit, complete with two weigh feeders, cooling
system and electrostatic precipitator. The increase in capacity is to
compensate for production of special cements.
27.       From the two new mill outlets cement will be transported
pneumatically to three cylindrical concrete silos of 4,000 t capacity each,
and equipped with bulk loading devices. Cement produced in the old plant
will be conveyed pneumatically, either to the existing cement silos within
the old plant, or to two new cement silos, to be installed at the Nile Bank
for Nile dispatch (distance 600 m).
Department No. 11: Packing and Loading
2S.       Cement produced in the expansion facilities will be withdrawn from
one of the three silos by conveyors and from these it will be taken up by
bucket elevators to the feed hoppers of two rotary packers of 100 t/h
capacity each. The two packers shall feed a new horizontal belt conveyor
(about 2,000 bags/h) with deflectors and end skids or, alternatively, three
existing portable loading belt conveyors, to load trucks.
29.       Until recently Nile barges were loaded along one quay by portable
conveyor belt from trucks which had carried the bags out of the plant (about
800 m road). Currently two new berths are being built for Nlile barges.



ANNEX 4-3
Page 8
Cement will be transported via pneumatic pipeline with a total capacity of
85 t/h from the old plant to two new silos of 1,500 t capacity each, to be
installed at the quay. An extraction system will be provided which shall be
capable of feeding two rotary packers of 100 t/h capacity each. This will
allow simultaneous loading of two barges with bagged cement via an adjustable
belt conveyor system.
Department No. 12: Nile Pumping Station
30.       This comprises necessary replacement of the existing pumping
station (old pumps of a total capacity of 1.28 m3/sec) by 4 new pumps of
0.4 m3/sec each. The increase in water supply will be sufficient to provide
cooling water for mills and driers of the expansion plant and modified
machinery. The replacement of the old equipment would have been required
soon even without the project.
Department No. 13: Substation
31.       Details of the new substation are given in Annex 4-2.
Department No. 14: Control Station
32.       The existing control room shall house equipment and apparatus
needed to centrally control and supervise the new installations (except for
the crushing department which will have an independent control station). A
diagram shall be provided to show, by means of indicator lamps, the status
of all equipment and electric motors involved in the production process of
the expansion.
Department No. 15: Workshops (Mechanical and Electrical)
(a) Mechanical Workshops
33.       Equipment will be procured to replace obsolete equipment in the
existing workshop. Furthermore, a new workshop building, which will cater
to the existing plant as well as to the expansion, will be equipped. Required
equipment will include lathes, milling, drilling and shaping machines, mis-
cellaneous other machines and tools.
(b) Electrical Workshop
34.       An electrical workshop will be established to repair about 300 motors
per year. It will include both the required electrical and mechanical equip-
ment, such as lathes, milling, drilling, cutting machines, welding equipment,
furnaces, etc.
Department No. 16: Laboratory
35.       The existing laboratory is to be modernized and expanded for
quality-control and improvement of both existing and expanded production.



MANEX 4-3
Page 9
For lack of foreign exchange, TCC has to carry out an extensive raw material
investigation and the regular production control with overaged and obsolete
equipment.  The project is to improve this situation by providing    mis-
cellaneous laboratory equipment from a long list.
Services
36.       Training is discussed in Annex 4-7.
37.       Technical assistance for a maximum of two years after start-up of
the expansion will be included in the project. This may appear somewhat
"generous' but should be taken into account in the case of initial problems
of operations and maintenance with a process, new to most of TCC's operating
and maintenance staff.
38.       Detailed engineering of equipment is to be provided by the respec-
tive equipment suppliers.
39.       Supervision of erection, installation, start-up and performance
tests will be provided by the equipment supplier. The personnel to carry
out erection, installation, start-up and tests will be provided by TCC.
40.       Detailed civil engineering will be done by one of the Egyptian
engineering firms which will also be responsible for the supervision of civil
works and buildings.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



EGYPT                                                             ANNEX 4-3
TOU RA  CEINT EXPANSION PROJECT
PROCESS CHOICE: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES (WET AND DRY PROCESS)
Alternative I: Wet Process Expansion                                     Alternative II:  Dry Process Expansion                                 Alternative II - I
Pro-    Require%)              Costs                                  Additional   Additional   Operating
Capital  Operatng                                   duction1) ImportsZ)  Capital        of    Operatis*                       Capital      Import         Cost
Pro-      Costs2)   Costs3)  Revenue4)                         (hillion  (Million   Costs3)  imports2)   Coats    Revenue5)                Costs      Costs        Savings
Year  duction1i) (E 000)  (LE 000)   (LE 000)                         Tons)        Tons)  (ILE 000)  (IE 000)  (LE 000)   (LE 000 ((E 000) (LE 000)                      (LE 000)
1974               50        -           -                               -          -         55         -         -          -                    5           -             -
1975     -      5522         -           -                               -          -       6136         -         -          -                  614           -             -
1 976    - .    7739         -           -                               -          -       8599         -         -          -                  860           -             -
1977     -       3230        -           -                               -          -       3589         -         -          -                  359           -             -
1978    500     2053       3213        6275                             430       70        2204       1100      2352       6275                 151         1100           861
1979    650        39      4229        8158                             580       70          39       1100      3132       8158                  -          1100          1097
1980    720        37      4669        9036                             720                   37                 3655       9036                  -                        1014
1981    720                4741        9036                             720                                      3722       9036                                           1019
1982    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1983    720                484o        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1984    720                484o        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1985    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1986    720                484o        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1 987    720               4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1988    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1989    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                          1051
1990    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1991    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1992    720                k84o        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1993    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1994    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1995    720                48kg        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1996    720                4840        9036                             720                                      3789       9036                                           1051
1997    720     -772       4840        9036                             720                 -772                 3789       9036                                           1051
1)  Startup assumed in January 1978. Utilization                      1)  Production as explained in Annex 6-2.
of capacity:
First year 70%                                                 2)  Required imports:  to make alternatives comparable,
Second year 90%                                                     appropriate quantities are assumed imported at a
Third year and thereafter 100%.                                      price of LE 12.55/Ton of  cement.
2)  Capital costs as used in dry process case but                     3)  Capital costs as used in the Economic Evaluation,
reduced by 10%                                                        Annex 7-1.
3) Operating costs based on fuel costs of XE 3.66 per ton            4)  Operating costs as per Annex 7-1.
of cement,electrioity costs of LE 0.55 per ton of cement,
spare parts costs of LE 0.26 per ton of cement.  All other   5)  Revenue as per Annex 7-1.
items as in dry process case.
4) Revenue based on LE 12.55/ton of cement as per
Economic Evaluation in Annex 7-1.
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



TOUATA- EXPANSION PROJECT
/                                       --                                     --           --------
/ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                  P00 PUSSNANT
_~~~~ N                                                                                                                  -                       I-            at                                                              0
U CMNTTMTL N   1PLNT      '<                                       _ EDCA(F
-  I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ L 



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
FLOW CHART FOR EXPANSION PROJECT
L-T-L
-LAl QUAR Y                                         _                                                                             ,
L~~~ 0S
IMEST-N .A-AMY            CLAY ACCOS                                AT-YN- N-NTDCEPI INC                -PM-PTSCNI  ND SAWG-TIDIN              MAWEALOOMACYNIOINEL  ETO
_   I~ ~ ~~~~1L
S-CMPD .-MMEH                                                 CA- IE  CLYI- -        11  LA I    APPED                       1             TSOE INASIYTSAAESLS    2PESAE
3 DAMPED                                                             S LIMENWONS -YOEP                 ISIT  NAY CANCVM                                                             D
S IMPLANYSTOOXPILE         /       3 / INDING MILL                                                                IN
S  LAY -YOPL                      SCNOSI-ALALAI--PAD-AM2  PLAEAYCOE
-PLANT STCP-                                                                                                           I   CAS
-MAR OUC NING AAnDL INGE            PRP-IINA   RAN AINA ANDR GIPDINA
PI1 DORIN ACHINE                                                   AD CLI2EEM H OMMRFSHErS tLMSOE        GIIETAN SALPER LISIN  MAILEIZTDNSORG DNAO YSLCERGTTI 
2 LY  E I5A                                                       TNMPER  7YM HAMMER     &CAPPER                  CI -ANAIN ANI  LA -TD A-         SAI ATRACE
D CE PLAR OTHE  A-TG TPILA                   52 G AINDNN   AN2T AND NAG L0ADINS  AARAD
9D CNIAAALL AI SEPARATOR
27 CEMENT SILAILSAD D-
25 CE-N-RUA l- RSPAAO



ANNEX 4-6
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
ECOLOGY
A.   Introduction
1.        Potential ecological problems posed by cement plants are normally
water pollution (if wet scrubbers are employed), air pollution from both
dust as well as toxic gases, and noise pollution. The Egyptian Ministry of
Public Health has established standards regarding pollution control, which
are specific as concerns effluents into the Nile but which are vague and still
under study as far as gaseous effluents, dust and noise are concerned.
B.   Tourah Cement Companv
Existig Facilities and    oing Prpects
2.        TCC does not currently use water to cool polluted kiln gases (wet
scrubber system) and, therefore, has no chemical effluents which would be
harmful to discharge. TCC does operate a sewage plant to treat the sewage
of sanitary facilities in the factory and staff quarters before discharge
into the Nile.
3.        Dust pollution is the major problem in TCC's factory.  The management
is aware of this fact and has taken steps to improve the situation: Kilns I &
2, the only kilns which did not have electrostatic precipitators to date, are
currently equipped with modern machines, which will reduce the dust output to
200 mg/Nm3 of kiln gas released (maximum permitted value when running above
nominal capacity). Electrostatic Drecipitators of Kilns 3, 4 and 5 are being
modernized under the same contract. 1/  Finally, this contract also includes
electrostatic preciDitators for three existing cement mills which have previ-
ously caused dust pollution problems, and a complete multicyclone system
(meclhanized filter) for the "fuller cooler.'
Exyansio 2 Project
4.        The expansion project will include the modification and replacement
of the electrostatic precipitator of existing Kiln 6. It will replace two
old cement mills, wqhich do not have electrostatic filters by one large new
mill fully equipped with air separator and electrostatic filter. It will
further replace an old limestone crushLer which operates in two stages and is
ill-suited for TCC's limestone as it produces nearly 70% dust and only 30%
aggregate. Transportation of the dusty material over 2 kan via open conveyor
1/ Contract between TCC and the Polish Foreign Trade Company for Electrical
Equipment in cooperation with Walter & Cie, A.G. Cologne, Federal Republic
of Germany. Total cost of project including civil works is estimated at
L.E. 450,000.



AINEX 4-6
Page 2
belt tends to create a very dusty atmosphere on windy days and causes much loss
of raw material. The new crusher will be of a single stage type and will have
very little dust output--which will mostly be retained in a mechanical filter
system.
5.        Regarding the expansion project, TCC will ensure that the new
equipment will adhere to internationally accepted standards. For this purpose,
tenderers are requested to give detailed particulars regarding performance
guarantees of pollution abatement equipment. Tender documents set upper limits
for solid effluents acceptable under standards prevailing in Switzerland. All
crushers, silos and packing plants will be equipped with appropriate mechanical
filters such as cyclones and/or bag filters. All raw mills, cement mills and
the kiln will be equipped with electrostatic filters.
6.        The use of the dry process technology may require use of a bypass
within the preheater system to discharge harmful quantities of chloride and
alkalies which might otherwise clog the preheater system when crystallizing.
Disposal of the dust collected in the bypass system may be difficult; there-
fore, tender documents require tenderers to propose suitable and acceptable
means for disposal. One reasonable suggestion at this time is to mix this
dust with the slurry for the existing wet process plant, and as dust quantities
are expected to be small this would not significantly affect the quality of
the existing plant's clinker. Noise pollution within the existing plant is
within acceptable limits. For the expansion project no problems are expected,
as crushers will be installed below surface, with feed bins lined by shock and
noise absorbent material, and raw cement mills will have partly closed build-
ings.
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



ANNEX 4-7
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
LABOR FORCrE PROJECTIONS AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
A.  Labor Force
General
1.        The factory and service facilities of TCC are run and operated by
a staff of about 2,050 persons. The payroll shows a total number of employees
around 2,500, which includes, according to Egyptian law, 450 persons seconded
to the military, attending university or serving in public functions. The
active staff of 2,050 persons may appear high by international comparison with
similar factories, particularly privately-run operations. However, consider-
ing the many special activities performed by the staff which in similar com-
panies abroad are uncommon (such as foundry, training center, fire department,
security department, etc.), and taking into account the Egyptian employment
system, these figures are acceptable.
Projections
2.        For the expansion project, the Company plans to hire about 200
additional persons. In 1980, when the project reaches capacity production,
the labor productivity of the operational staff within the plant will increase
by over 40%.  The following additional personnel for the various departments
will be recruited, of whom some will be trained; this program is considered
reasonable.
Total
A.   Quarries                               40
B.   Raw material handling                  10
C.   Raw mills                              25
D.   Kiln plant                             45
E.   Cement mill                            25
F.   Bagging-Dispatch                       35
G.   Maintenance and control                20
Total                                 200
B.   Training
General
3.        TCC operates a training program with a long standing tradition.
Since the beginning of the plant's operation, in-plant training has been
practiced, particularly in the workshops. Since 1973, a special building
has been provided which gives room for the following training activities:



Ai\NEX 4-7
Page 2
(1) Testing of recruits, testing of staff for new positions,
promotions, transfers.
(2)  Training of new staff.
(3) In-plant training courses (upgrading courses);
-    Upgrading courses for workers, unskilled workers;
-    Maintenance course;
-    Foreman training;
-    Kiln operator training;
-    Mill operator training;
-    Training of mobile equipment operations; and
-    Pre-vocational training for semi-skilled welders, fitters,
drivers;
-    Miscellaneous (Induction course, Safety course, Labor
Culture, "Fight against Illiteracy').
(4)  Training of personnel from other companies in Egypt and other
Arab Countries; and industrial training of students.
4.        Programs can be full or part-time, or after w,orking hours and have
varying durations from a week to three years (apprenticeship for boys).
Average duration of upgrading courses is 6 to 8 weeks. The training center
is well prepared to train thle majority of the new staff required for the
expansion project.
Training for the Expansion Project
5.        Of the 200 new persons required for the expansion project, about
20 will be trained by the supplier of the new equinment, as most operating
personnel of TCC are not vet familiar with dry process operations. Particu-
larly the required raw mill and kiln operators should have sufficient training
on similar equipment. The project provides for training of 20 persons out-
side Egypt for about one year.  This part of the training will be the res-
ponsibility of the equipment supplier and is included in the IBRD financed
package of cement machinerv and equipment.
6.        The remaining 130 new employees will be trained by TCC, either
through on-the-job training in the plant, combined with theoretical courses
in the training center or in ELyptian institutions outside TCC, such as the
DeDartment of Mlining (for training drilling machine operator), the Mlobil Oil
Co. (for training oilers), Department of Roads and Bridges (for training
tractor loader drivers). The proDosed training schemes are considered satis-
factory.
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1974                      1975                      1976                       1977
RELEASE OF TENDER DOCUMENTS,                               1 ff
SUBMISSION OF TENDERS.
ANALYSIS OF TECHNICAL BIDS.
TECHNICAL DISCUSSIONS AND TWO STAGE
BIDDING.
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL BIDS.
NEGOTIATIONS & AWARD OF CONTRACT.                                                       A
ENGINEERING DRAWINGS SUBMISSION.
DELIVERY OF EQUIPMENT.                                                                                 _   _       _                  _   _
CIVIL CONSTRUCTION                                                                                     _                                   _
ERECTION OF EQUIPMENT.                                                                                      _      m   m
START-UP AND COMMISSIONING
wom--m    FOR CEMENT MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
- _ _ FOR ALL OTHER EQUIPMENT.
Induatrial Frojects Department    AORDER PLACEMENT                     PROJECTCOMPLETION
DecemberS,  1974                        0 RELEASE OF DOCUMENTS                                                                              World Bank-8934



EGYPT                       ANNEX 5-1
Page 1
TOURAH CENENT EXPANSION PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
A. SUMMARY
1.         The capital cost estimates are based on the technical studies undertaken
by the Company and are summarized below:
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
(000 LE)                      (000 US$)
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total    %
1.  Building & Civil'Works       4750       -       4750      12113       -      12113  13.0
2. Equipment                       -     13759    13759          -      35085    35085  37.8
3.  Freight & Insurance          1000       -       1000       2550       -       2550   2.8
4. Duties & Taxes                1470       -       1470       3749       -       3749   4.0
5. Erection & Installation        430       130      560       1096       332     1428   1.5
6.  Testing & Startup             125        75      200         319      191       510   o.6
7. Training & Technical
Assistance                   15      155       170         38       395      433   0.5
8.  Preoperating Expenses          80       -         80         204      -         204   0.2
Total Base Cost Estimate    7870    14119    21989        20069    36003    56072  60.4
9.  Contingency (10%)             787      1412     2199        2007     3600     5607   6.0
10.  Price Escalation (32.9%)    3087       4862     7949       7872    12398    20270  21.8
Total Fixed Assets          11744    20393    32137       29948    52001    81949  88.2
11.  Working Capital               772       _        772       1969       -       1969   2.1
Project Cost                12516    20393    32909       31917    52001    83918  90.3
12.  Interest during Cons-
truction                    1410    3137      3547       1045      8000     9045   9.7
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED   12926    23530    36456        32962    60001    92963 100%
Above figures reflect direct local and direct foreign costs.
B. DETAILED ESTIMATES
The following  table shows detailed capital cost estimates and their direct
local and foreign components, as well as their total local and foreign components.
Background information is contained in the footnotes as appropriate.



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROGRAM
*
DETAILED CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
(IN LE 000)
2/  3/                4/                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6/  7/
1/    PHYSICAL        PRICE             TOTAL          DIRECT         DIRECT-                            TO1AL-          TOTAL-
DESCRIPTION                         BASE COST    CONTINGENCY       ESCALATION          C(ST        LOCAL COST  FOREIGN COST   TOTAL COST            LOCAL COST    FOREIGN COST   TOTAL COST
1.   CIVIL CONSTRUCTION & BUILDING -
Crusher Plant                                       250            25              108             383
Raw Grinding Plant & Storage                       1050           105              454            1609
Kiln Plant                                         1150           115              497            1762
Clinker Grinding Plant                              880            88              380            1348
Loading Packing, Nile Dispatch                      360            36              156             552
Substation, Cableducts, Waterworks                  260            26              112             398
Miscellaneous Buildings                             290            29              125             444
Modification Existing Facilities                    510            51              220             781                                                                                1/
Total Civil Constr. & Buildings               4750           475            2052             7277           7277              0            7277                6186         1091-            7277
9/
2.   EQUIPMENT & SPARES-
a)   Cement Plant Mechanical Equipment
Crusher                                             390            39              135             564
Raw Material Handling                               275             28              95             398
Raw Material Grinding                               960             96             332            1388
Raw Meal Transport & Storage                        281             28              97             406
Kiln Plant                                         2770           277              939            3986
Clinker Transport                                   275            28               95             398
Clinker Grinding                                   1680           168              581            2429
Cement Transport & Storage                          505            50              175             730
Packing, Loading, Nile Dispatch                     445            45              154             644
Various Modifications                               405            40              140             585
Spares for two years                                450            43              149             622
Miscellaneous (pipes, mill plates, etc)             690            69              239             998
Subtotal A                                    9106           911            3131            13148            -              13148         13148                1315        11833            13148
b)   Other Equipment
Quarry Equipment                                   1127           113              390            1630
Electrical Equipment                               1386           139              480            2005
Substation                                          871            87              302            1260
Lab Equipment                                       200             20              69             289
Workshop Equipment                                  783             78             271            1132
Electrostatic Precipitator (Kiln 6)                 286             28              99             413
Subtotal b                                    4653           465            1611             6729                            6729          6729                 135          6594            6729
Total Equipment & Spares                        13759          1376             4742           19877             _             19877          19877                1450        18427            19877
3.   FREIGHT & INSURANCE                                      1000            100             310            1410            1410              -            1410                 200         1210             1410
4.   DUTIES & TAXES-                                          1470            147             508             2125           2125              -            2125                2125          -               2125
5.   ERECTION & INSTALLATION- 12/                              560             56             194              810            620              190           810                 620          190              810
6.  TESTING & STARTUP EXPENSES-13/                             200             20              70              290            180              110           290                 180           110             290
7.   TRAINING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE1'4/                       170             17              49              236             20              216           236                  20          216              236
8.   PREOPERATING EXPENSES-15/                                  80              8              24              112            112              -             112                  77            35             112
GRAND TOTAL                                       21989           2199            7949            32137          11744           20393          32137               10858        21279            32137
o     e
Pootnotes explained on following page 



ANNEx 5-1
Page 3
/1   Base cost estimates in End 1974 prices.
/2   Physical contingency:  10% for civil construction, 10% for equipment,
10% for all other items.
13   Price escalation: Escalation iates for foreign equipment:
First year:        15%
Second year:       12%
Third year and
thereafter:      10%
Escalation rates for civil works:
First year:        25%
Second year:       20%
Third year:        15%
Fourth year and
thereafter:     10%
Escalation rates for remaining items as appropriate.
/A   Direct Local Costs excluding indirect local components3 if any.
15   Direct Foreign Costs excluding indirect foreign components, if any.
/6   Total Local Costs, including direct and indirect local components, if any.
For the cement machinery and equipment package, clearly identifiable items
amount to 10 percent of total cost could be provided locally. For
the other equipment packages, this percentage has been estimated to
arount to 2 percent.
/7   Total Foreign Costs, including direct and indirect local components, if any.
For the civil construction costs about 15 percent are eastimated to repre-
sent imported material and equipment. Of the direct local cost of
freight and insurance, about 75%, are estimated to consist of indirect
foreign exchange. Of the preoperating expenses about 30 percent are
estimated to be expanded in indirect foreign exchange.
/8   Civil Construction & Building Costs:
Cost estimates based on the Company's8 experience with recent similar
projects. These cost estimates in terns of 1973 prices were increased
by 30 percent to arrive at end 74 base prices, reflecting the recent
strong price increases in the Building Material Sector of Egypt.



ANNE 5-1
Page 4
/9 Equipment & Spares Cost:
Cost estimates based on two firm offers received by the company during
1973 and on comparisons with similar projects in North Africa. Price
quotes of the offers were adjusted upward by about 30 to 35 percent
to derive base prices in end 74 terms, reflecting the inflationary
impact of price hikes of fuel and other raw materials.
/10 Freight & Insurance Costs:
Estimates based on the Company's experience as well as quotes for prevailing
tariff rates.
/11 Daties & Taxes:
Calculated based on prevailing tariff rates currently in effect in Egypt.
/12 Erection & Installation:
Cost estimate based on (i) 60 man months of foreign supervision personnel
including travel and allowances, (ii) about 900 man years of local
personnel and renting of equipment.
/13  Testing & Startup Expenses:
Cost estimates based on (i) 35 man months of foreign superrision personael
including travel and allowances, (ii) one and a half month of direct
operating cost plus equipment rental for teating.
/14 Training and Technical Assistance:
Cost estimates are based on
(i) 20 persons to be trained abroad
(ii) 140 persons to be trained locally for an average period of two
months
(iii) one expert to be provided for two years after startup of plant
(iv) consultants to assist during technical bid evaluation
/15 Preoperating Expenses:
Estimates include costs for Company's project engineering staff, related
travel expenses, issuance of tender documents, as well as costs for a
raw material survey.
Industrial Projects Department
Decemberj 1974



ANNEX 5_1
Table 1
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
COST BREAKDOWN OF ALTERNATIVE PROJECT L
Capital Cost Estimate
(LE 000)
LOCAL     FOREIGN   TOTAL
1.)  Building & Civil Construction    660          -        660
2.)  Equipment                          -        3917      3917
3.)  Freight & Insurance               400         -        400
4.) Erection & Installation             65         41       106
5.)  Duties & Taxes                    617         -        617
Subtotal                   1742        3958     5700
6.)  Contingency                        66        392       458
7.)  Price Escalation                  283       1347      1630
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS          2091       5697     7788
8.) Working Capital                    _          -         _
PROJECT COSTS               2091       5697     7788
/1 This program would be necessary to keep the production at current rated
capacity, if the expansion project did not go ahead.
Industrial Projects Department
Decembers, 1974



ANNEX 5- 2
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
Basic Assumptions:
A. Base Case (Without Expansion)
1.  Cash LE 40,0O0 - minimum cash required
2. Accounts Receivables - 30 days of sales
3. Inventories:
(a) Raw materials
Bags - 30 days of requirement
Fuel - 23,000 tons (present capacity of storage tanks)
(b) Work in Progress - 15 days of clinker cost
(c)  Finished Goods - 20,000 tons of bagged cement and 42,000 tons
of cement in bulk.
(d)  Spare parts - LE 2.67 million worth of spare parts and stores.
4. Accounts Payable - 60 days of sales in 1974
45 days of sales in 1975, and
30 days of sales in 1976 and thereafter.
B. Expanded Case (With Expansion)
1. Cash LE 600,000 minimum cash required after expansion
2. Accounts Receivable - 30 days of sales.
3. Inventories
(a) Raw materials
Bags - 30 days of requirements
Fuel - 23,000 tons (present capacity, no increase in storage
capacity for fuel is envisaged in the project because
there will be a direct pipeline connection to the main
fuel supply line)
(b) Work in Progress - 15 days of clinker cost.
(c) Finished Goods - 30,000 tons of bagged cement and 88,000 tons
of cement in bulk.
(d) Spare parts - LE 2.67 million worth of spare parts for the
existing facilities.. Spare parts required for the project are
included in capital cost.
4. Accounts Payable - 60 days of sales in 1974,
45 days of sales in 1975, and
30 days of sales in 1976 and thereafter.



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PFOJECT
WORKING CAPITAL REQUIRNT
(In 000 L E )
1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982      1983       1984
A.  BASE CASE (Without Excpansion)
1.  Cash                                                 40        400.0    1400.0      1400.0     1     400.0           400.0      400.0      400.0     1     400.04
2.  Receivables                                         935.5      996.4    1015.2    1022.7    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5
3.  Inventory
a) Paper for bags (L.E.1.14/ton of cement)          151.7      157.5     157.5      157.5      157.5      157.5      157.5     157.5      157.5      157.5      157.5
b) Fuel (L.E.7.5/ton)                               172.5      172.5      172.5     172.5      172.5      172.5      172.5      172.5     172.5      172.5      172.5
c) Work in Progress (L.E.3.52/ton of clinker)    190.7         198.0      198.0     198.0      198.0      198.0      198.0      198.0     198.0      198.0      198.0
d) Finished Goods (20,000 tons at L.E.8.22/
ton)                                             164.4      164.4     164.4      164.4      164.4      164.4     164.4      164.4      164.4      164.4      164.14
e) Finished Goods (42,000 tons at L.E.6.52/
ton)                                             273.8      273.8     273.8      273.8      273.8      273.8     273.8      273.8      273.8      273.8      273.8
f) Spare Parts                                     2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0
Total InventorY                               3623.1    3636.2    33636.2       636.2    3636.2    3636.2    3636.2    3636.2    3636.2    3636.2    3636.2
Total Current Assets                          4958.6    5032.6    5051.4    5058.9    5064.7    5064.7    5064.7    5064.7    5064.7    5064.7    5064.7
4.  Accounts Payable                                   1871.0    1494.6    1015.2    1022.7    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5    1028.5
Working Capital Requirements                  3087.6    3538.0    4035.2    4036.2    4036.2    4036.2    4036.2    4036.2    4036.2    4036.2    4036.2
Change in Working Capital                    +1159.6    +450.4    +498.2         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
B.  EANDED CASE (With Exansion)
1.  Cash                                               400.0        400.0     400.0      400.0     600.0      600.0      600.0      600.0      600.0     600.0      600.0
2.  Receivables                                        935.5       966.4    1015.2    1022.7    1323.1    1425.8    1521.7    1521.7    1421.7    1521.7    1521.7
3.  Inventory
a) Paper for bags (L.E.1.14/ton of cement)         151.7       157.5      157.5     157.5      207.7      225.2      241.5      241.5     241.5      241.5      241.5
b) Fuel (L.E.7.5/ton)                              172.5       172.5      172.5     172.5      172.5      172.5      172.5      172.5     172.5      172.5      172.5
c) Work in Progress (L.E.3.52/ton of clinker)   190.7          198.0      198.0     198.0      261.1      283.1      303.6      303.6     303.6      303.6      303.6
d) Finished Goods (30,000 tons at L.E.8.22/
ton)                                            164.4       164.4     164.4      164.4      246.6      246.6      246.6     246.6      246.6      246.6      246.6
e) Finished Goods (88,000 tons at L.E.6.52/
ton)                                            273.8       273.8     273.8      273.8      573.8      573.8      573.8     573.8      573.8      573.8      573.8
f) Spare parts                                    2670.0      2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0    2670.0
g) Spare parts fbr project!-                         0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0    1285.0    1285.0    1285.0    1285.o    1285.0    1285.0    1285.0
Total Inventory                              3623.1     3636.2    3636.2    3636.2    5416.7    51456.2    5493.0    5493.0    5493.0    5493.0    5493.0
Total Current Assets                         4958.6     5032.6    5051.4    5058.9    7339.8    7482.0    7614.7    7614.7    7614.7    7614.7    7614.7
4.  Accounts Payable                                  1871.0      1494.6    1015.2    1022.7    1323.1    1425.8    1521.7    1521.7    1521.7    1521.7    1521.7
Working Capital Requirements                 3087.6      3538.0    4036.2    4036.2    6016.7    6056.2    6093.0    6093.0    6093.0    6093.0    6093.0
Change in Working Capital                   +1159.6      +450.4    +498.2        0.0   +1980.5       +39.5      +36.8       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Working Capitta  Increase due to
the Project2/                                  0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0    +695.5       +39.5      +36.8       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      s
1/ These are irrluded with the Capital Cost estisates.
2/ Excludes spare parts included in the Project Capital cost.
Industrial Pm jects Depsrtment
July 1 974



ANNE3X 5-3
BEYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
*~~ ~ ion,    1 v X i_
CATEflORY                                                 Amount of Loan Allocated
(Excpressed in US$ Equivalent)
(000 US$)
A    Mechanical equipment and machinery for:
I.  Crushig Plant consisting of complete                           1,339
mechnical equipment for limestone
crusher plant and clinker crusher
plant.
II.  Raw Material Handli,g, including modification                    944
o  te lestone stockpile and conveyor belt
III.  Raw Material Grinding Plant and Raw Meal                       4,259
Storage comprising of mechanical transport
equipment, two grinding mills with air separators
raw meal transport and mechanical equipment
for raw meal storage in homogenization silos
IV. Kiln Plant including preheater equipment, kiln                10,401
and drive, cooler electrostatic precipitator
and Qlinker transport
V. Clinker Grinding Plant & Cement Storage  including              7,5 00
necessary transport equipment, tw Ball mills
electrostatic precipitator and storage equipment
for expansion and transport equipment, one ball
mill, electrostatic precipitator and transport
equipment for the modification of the existing
plant
VI. Packing, Loading, Nile Despatch and                             1,527
ping Station comprising 4 packing machines
and related equipment and a pumping station
VII. Various Modifications in existing plant, such                   1,390
as modified slurry elevators, weigh feeders and
conveyors
VIII. Spares for Two Years for above equipment                        1,476
Ix.  ,Iiscell-iq.ous 1t.e-ns (Chutes, Pines,                       2,369
Mill plates, grinding media, refractories)
Subtotal A                                               31,205
B   Services
Supervision of Erection Installation,                          1,265
Testing and Startup; Training of
Personnel abroad; Technical Assistance
during bid evaluation and for two years
after startup
C   Technica' Consultant                                                  100
D   Interest during Construction                                        5,000
E   Unallocated                                                         2,430
Total (B+B+C+D)                                               40,O0
Industrial Projects Depart-ment
December, 1 9741



ANNEX 5-4
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
DISBURSEKENT SCHEDULEA/
Disbursemrent    Amount Outstanding     Undisbursed Am1nmt
1_ -97- - 5$ O                                              )-----
I Quarter            -                   -                    35,000
II Quarter           100                 100                   34),900
III Quarter         8,350               8,t450                  26,550
IV Quarter         6,o421             14,871                  20,129
1976
I Quarter           477              15,348                   19,652
II Quarter         2,522              17,870                   17,130
III Quarter         2,088              19,958                   15j042
IV Quarter         3,119              23,077                   11,923
1977
I Quarter           885              23,962                   11,o38
IT Quarter         4,985              28,9147                   6,o53
III Quarter           160              29,107                    5.893
IV Quarter         1,460              30,567                    4s433
1978
I Quarter            80              30,647                    4,353
II Quarter            50              30,697                    4303
III Quarter            50              30,747                    4,253
IV Quarter         4,253              35,000
1/ This is based on the following assumptions:  20% down payment;
S  progress payments; 30% on delivery; 1% on start-up; and
10% after the oempletionof performance guarantee.
The amounts shown include the cost of the technical assistance for prowurement
and exclude the interest capitalized to principal during construction perioid
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
REVENUE PROJECTIONS
(000 LE)
YEAR                           1974         1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981         1982        1983        1984        1985
ITEMS
BASE CASE
Production Program
Ordinary Portland Cement (000 tons)                 900         900         900         900          900         900         900         900         900          900         900         900
Rapid Hardening Cement (000 tons)                   250         250         250         250          250         250         250         250         250          250         250         250
Mixed Cement (000 tons)                             150         200         200          200         200         200         200         200         200          200         200         200
Total Cement (000 tons)                         1,300       1,250       1,350        1,350 50               1,350        1,350 1,3                           50 50        1,350       1,350
Weighed Rfleen.e per ton of cement sold
(LE/Ton)-                                         8.02        8.22        8.22        8.22        8.22        8.22        8.22         8,22        8.22        8.22        8.22         8.22
(1) Total Revenue from Cement Sales (OOOLE)    10,426          11,097      11,097      11,097      11,097      11,097      11,097       11,097      11,097      11,097      11,097       11,097
Production of Lime (000 Tons-)                     0          12          57          75          89           89          89          89          89          89           89          89
Revenue per ton (LE/Ton)                        5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00         5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00         5.00
(2) Total Revenue from Lime Sales                       0          60         285         375         445          445         445         445         445         445          445         445
(3) Other Revenue]/  (L E  000-)                      800         800         800         800          800         800         800         800         800          800         800         800
(4)   Total Income (1) + (2) + (3)                 11,226      11,957      12,182      12,272      12,342      12,342      12,342    1Y,4           122,342     12,42 1,342  12,342      12,342
EXPANDED CASE
Production Program
Ordinary Portland Cement (000 Tone)                 900         900         900         900       1,210        1,310       1,400       1,400       1,400        1,400       1,400       1,400
Rapid Herdening Cement (000 Tons)                   250         250          250         250         330         360         390         390         390          390         390         390
Mixed Cement (000 Tone)                             150          200         200         200         240         260         280         280          280         280         280         280
Total Cement (000 Tone)                         1,300       1,350       1,350       1,350       1,780        1,930       2,070       2,070       2,070        2,070       2,070       2,070
Weighed Revenue per ton of Cement Sold
(L E /Ton)l/                                      8.02        8.22        8.22        8.22        8.22        8.22         8.22        8.22        8.22        8.22         8,22        8.22
(5) Total Revenue from Cement Sales (000 LE)   10,426          11,097      11,097      11,097      14,632.6   15,864.6   17,015.4   17,015.4   17,015.4   17,015.4   17,015.4   17,015.4
Production of lime (000 Tons)                       0          12          57          75           89          89          89          89           89          89          89          89
Revenue per ton (LE/Ton)                         5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00         5.00        5.00        5.00        5.00         5.00        5.00        5.00
(6) Total Revenue from Lime Sales (000 LE)              0          60         285         375          445         445         445         445         445          445         445         445
(7) Other Revenue2/ (000 LE)                          800         800         800          800         800         800         800         800         800          800         800         800
(8)   Total Revenue (5) + (6) + (7)                11,226      11,957      12,182      12,272      15,876 6   17,109.6   18,260.4   18,260.4   18,260,4   18,260.4   18,260.4   18,260.4
(9) Incremental Revenue (8) - (4)                       0            0°0         0°0         0.0    3,534.6    4,767.6    5,918.4    5,918.4    5,918.4    5,918.4    5,918,4             5,918.4
1/ Ordinary Cement (9.50/T)
Rapid Hardening Cement (10.5/T)
Mixed Cement (8.0/T)
Weighted Average Price (9.52/Ton)
Less: Weighed Average Tax (3.00/Ton)
Plus: Cost of Bags (1.70/Ton)
Total Revenue to Company per ton (8.22)         8.02w    8.22
Until mid-1974 total revenue to the company per ton of .ement sold was 7.82 and would be L E  8.22 per ton thereafter because bag price wes
increased from 1.3 to 1.7 in mid-1974
2/  Revence from foundry and workshop operations as well as technical services.
Industrial Projects Depa.Lment
July 1974



VNNL,S 6 - 2
Page 1
ECYPT
T'OURIW  CEHIENT EXPAINS IOi PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND OPERATING COST PROJECTIONS
A.  Production Plan
1.        As a result of the project, cement production in TCC's plant is
expected to increase as follows:
Projected Cement Production (iLillion Tons)
1974   1975-77   1978    1979       1980-85
Ordinary Portland Cement              900      900    1,210   1,310        1,400
Rapid Hardening Cement                250       250      330      360        390
M4ixed Cement                         150       200      240      260        280
Total                          1,300    1,350    1,780   1,930        2,070
Thus by 1980, when fully operational, the expansion project will help increase
TCC production by 53.3 percent over tne current rated capacity of 1.35 mil-
lion tons. Furthermore, the implementation of the project is not expected to
affect the production of existing facilities and the project will help the
existing plan to maintain production levels at rated capacity, since the proj-
ect includes some modernization of some existing facilities.
2.        Output figures have been calculated on the assumption, that the
expansion will start production in January 1978 and reach full production
capacity by 1980. Utilization of the capacity to be installed under the
project (0.72 million TPY) 1/ has been assumed as follows:
Capacity Utilization of Expansion (Percent)
1978      1979       1980-85
Utilization of capacity (%)           60         80          100
However, to account for any loss in production during early stages of the
operation of the plant, operating cost projections are based on a conservative
utilization rate of 75 and 90 percent for 1978 and 1979 respectively. The
capacity of the existing plant (1.35 million TPY) is assumed to remain con-
stant during the entire forecast period. This is reasonable, as the plant is
kept in good condition, the maintenance crews are well experienced, and the
project includes some modifications.
3.        The lime plant project currently being implemented by the Company,
is to be carried out in two phases. Phase I, with a capacity of 20,000 TPY,
is scheduled for start-up in January 1975, whereas Phase II, with a capacity
of 69,000 TPY is expected to start operations in January 1976. The same
utilization of capacity has been assumed for these two phases as was used
21   Under given product mix.



ANNEX 6-2
Page 2
for the cement expansion project (para 2). This yields a production build-up
as follows:
Projected Production of Lime (000 tons)
1975      1976       1977      1978-85
Total Lime Production           12         57        75           89
B.   Production Costs
4.        Detailed production costs by type of cement produced are difficult
to establish for TCC because of the lack of detailed information required for
such calculations due to the peculiarities of the accounting system. As the
composition of cement types within the annual production shows very little
change over time and is also forecast to remain virtually constant, operating
costs are based on total production.
5.        Cost projections, with the exception of labor costs and costs of
imported spare parts, have been expressed in constant 1974 prices. However,
an increase of 5% per annum for wages and 10% per annum for imported spare
parts have been taken into account for projections until 1978. Any increase
thereafter is assumed to be compensated for by increases in product prices.
Considering the present pricing system in ARE, these assumptions are reason-
able as the cement prices will be adjusted upward periodically depending on
the increase in operating costs as a result of increase in input prices.
Thus effects of production cost increases beyond the control of the Company
are expected to be offset by selling prices.
6.        Based on the proposed product mix, the total production cost by
material and other inputs as well as per ton cost of these items for existing
plant and the expansion project are detailed in Table 1 and summarized below.
They are in 1974 price at full production capacity.
OPERATING COST ESTIMATES
Existing Plan        Expansion (Incremental Costs)
Total          Cost    Total                   Cost
Cost         Per Ton   Cost                  Per Ton
(000 LE)        (LE)   (000 LE)                 (LE)
A.  Material, Utilities
and Supplies /1        4,369         3.24      2,035                2.83
B.  Labor /2                  465         0.34          85               0.12
C.   Maintenance /3         1,689         1.25         738                1.03
Cost of goods sold    6,523         4.83       2,858                3.98
/1   Includes fuel, electricity, pyrite, slag and paper.
/2   Includes direct labor only.
/3   Includes maintenance labor, refractories, grinding media, supplies and
spare parts.



ANNEX 6-2
Page 3
I.   SupliesJ Materials and Utilities
7.        Fuel (for Kiln only):  This is the most important cost element in
the operating costs and is a major measure for the efficiency of the plant.
Fuel consumption of the existing plant amounts to about 0.162 tons of Mazout 1/
per ton of cement produced, given the current product mix. This figure is
consistent with the consumption of comparable wet process-operated plants
and is equivalent to a caloric consumption of 1,565 keal per ton of cement
produced. For the dry process expansion project, a caloric consumption of
about 870 kcal per ton of cement has been used conservatively. (Such a figure
would result, if the more heat consuming semidry process were used, whereas
the installation of a dry process kiln would result in a caloric consumption
of 750 to 800 kcal per ton of cement produced.) This caloric consumption
would require 0.090 tons of Mazout per ton of cement produced. The Company
buys Mazout at a subsidized price which is LE 7.5 per ton (equivalent to about
US$2.75 per barrel). Although world market prices run about three times as
high for this type of fuel, the Government is hesistant to remove the subsidy
because of the down stream effect this would have on consuming industries.
For this reason and the reason described in para. 5 of this Annex, the fuel
price has been kept constant throughout the projection period. On the other
hand, if subsidies were eliminated for the fuel, cement selling prices would
be adjusted accordingly.
8.        Electricity:  Another major measure of plant efficiency, which is
also an important cost element, is the consumption of electricity. In the
existing plant, this is at present between 94 and 95 kwh/ton of cement pro-
duced. This consumption compares favorably with similar wet process plants.
For the dry process expansion, a consumption of about 110 kwh/ton of cement
is estimated, which is consistent with other producers using this process,
and is used for cost projections.
9.        Currently the Company is purchasing two-thirds of total power
requirements from the Cairo Grid at an average cost of LE 0.0062 per kWh.
The remaining one-third of TCC's power requirements are generated in its own
power plant at a variable cost of LE 0.0050 per kWh (equivalent fuel cost
excluding costs of labor, parts, depreciation and overhead). The project
will provide for a new substation, so that all required power can be purchased
from the grid. The existing power station will then be maintained as a stand-
by unit. Savings will be realized by the Company in two ways: (i) the in-
creased amount of electricity purchased will reduce cost per kWh; and (ii)
maintenance and operation of the power plant will greatly be reduced. For
this reason, the weighted average electricity cost of the existing plant, as
currently incurred (LE 0.0058 per kWh) has been kept constant throughout the
projection period for the existing plant. Nevertheless projections for the
new expansion are based on a kWh price of LE 0.0062.
1/   Mazout = heavy fuel oil (Bunker C), average net caloric value:  9,650
kcal/ton of Mazout.



ANNEX 6-2
Page 4
10.       Pyrite and Slag:  TCC buys pyrite at a price of LE 1.25 per ton.
With a total current requirement of 11,000 tons per year, this yields a cost
of LE 53,000 per year or LE 0.047 for pyrite per ton of cement produced.
For the expansion project the same figure is used. Slag is purchased from
Helwan Steel plant for the production of mixed cement (blast furnace cement).
The cost of this material amounts to LE 0.022 per ton of cement.
11.       Refractories:  For the existing plant, the cost of refractories is
about LE 0.015 per ton of cement. For the expansion project the same figure
is used. As one year's supply of refractories is included in the project's
capital cost estimates; necessary adjustments in calculating operating costs
with respect to such materials are made for 1978 and 1979.
12.       Grinding Media:  For the existing plant the cost for grinding media
amounts to about LE 0.195 per ton of cement produced. The same cost is used
for the expansion project, since consumption of grinding media is generally
directly proportional to the production of cement. Since one year's supply
of this material is included in the project, appropriate adjustments have
been made in calculating the cost of production due to this material during
1978 and 1979.
13.       Spares:  Cost of spares for the existing plant in 1974 is estimated
at LE 0.29 per ton of cement. These costs have been increased until 1978 by
10% per annum to reflect the market situation for such items in industrialized
countries. Spare part costs for the expansion project have been estimated on
a different basis: At full production, the total annual requirement for spare
parts in the expansion is estimated to amount to 2% of the gross fixed invest-
ment, equivalent to LE 0.31 million.
14.       Other Materials and Supplies:  This item includes fuel for trucks,
grease and lubrication materials, explosives and miscellaneous items for
workshops, laboratory, foundry, etc. It currently amounts to LE 0.250 per
ton of cement produced. This figure has been used for the existing as well
as the expansion project.
15.       Paper:  Paper has experienced tremendous price hikes within the
last year.  Therefore, GOBM has excluded paper from the regular cost calcula-
tions for setting selling prices for cement. Cost of paper bags, instead,
has been added as a separate item on top of the ex-factory cement price and
can thus be passed along directly to the consumer. The current paper bag
price of LE 1.30 per ton of cement will be increased to LE 1.70 per ton by
July 1974. These prices do, however, include operating costs, depreciation
and interest of the paper bag factory. The actual cost of paper to the
Company, used within the cost projections, is derived as follows: 1 ton of
kraft paper is sufficient to bag 250 tons of cement. 1/ Average CIF price of
kraft paper at the plant in early 1974 was close to LE 265 per ton of paper,
1/   1 bag, weighing about 180 to 190 g. contains 50 kg. of cement.  To in-
clude unavoidable wastes of paper, the weight of the bag has been cal-
culated at 200 g.



ANNEX 6-2
Page 5
or LE 1.06 per ton of cement. Recently this price has increased to about
LE 350 per ton of paper, or LE 1.40 per ton of cement. In the projections
it is, therefore, assumed that the average paper bag price for 1974 is LE
1.23 1/ per ton of cement, whereas from 1975 onward a price of LE 1.40 per
ton of cement is used. As mentioned earlier, any future increase in kraft
paper prices will not be a factor in the profitability of the Company because
according to the new pricing system, this entire cost of paper bags will be
passed on to the consumer. Production costs are calculated under the assump-
tion that the entire cement production will be sold in bags. However, any
shift from bagged to bulk cement sales, which is quite likely, would not
affect the profitability of TCC for the same reasons mentioned above.
16.       Miscellaneous Overhead:  This item is mostly related to maintenance
and includes "servicing necessaries" such as outside contractors' services,
renting of equipment, hiring of short-term labor, etc. This item has been
left at current levels for the existing plant. For the new expansion it has
been estimated at 10% of the existing plant's requirements, which is reason-
able.
17.       Others:  They include estate taxes, rents, donations and the like.
They have been kept constant throughout the projection period for the existing
plant. As no additional rents and taxes are to be paid for the expansion
project, no costs are shown in the forecasts for the project.
II.   Labor
18.       According to TCC's records the annual total labor bill can be split
into the following categories:
Percent         1974 Labor Bill
(million LE)
Direct Labor                       40                465
Maintenance                        35                411
Administration                     25              _294
Total                        100              1,170
To reflect recent increases of wages, particularly of minimum wages, the
labor bill of 1973 has been increased by 7 percent to arrive at 1974 figures.
Thus the average annual wage per man, including social benefits, has in-
creased from LE 438 in 1973 to LE 470 in 1974 at TCC. From 1974 to 1978,
wages have been assumed to rise at 5 percent per year to reflect a trend
confirmed by Government sources. The labor force of the existing plant is
assumed to remain at the current level.
1/   1.23 = (1.06 + 1.40) . 2.



ANNEX 6-2
Page 6
19.       For the expansion project, an additional labor force of about 200
persons will be required (180 direct labor and 20 for maintenance). The
average wage, applicable to the existing plant, has been used to project the
related labor costs.
20.        Comparison:  The comparison of operating costs between the existing
plant and expansion project is not readily possible, as the costs shown for
the expansion are incremental (infrastructure costs, maintenance labor,
administration and overhead are much lower for the extension than for the
existing plant). However, fundamental differences can be identified for
major direct cost elements, such as for fuel and electricity. As fuel is
subsidized (LF 7.5 per ton of Mazout against a world market price of more
than LE 22.5 per ton) the big advantage to TCC of the dry process expansion
shows only feebly. But even so, savings in operating costs from fuel alone,
also taking into account slightly higher electricity cost for dry process,
even at the subsidized price for fuel, work out to LE 0.41 or US$1.05 equiv-
alent per ton of cement produced. Using a world market price of LE 22.5 per
ton, these savings jump to LE 1.49 or US$3.80 equivalent per ton of cement
produced.
21.       Detailed operating cost projections by year from 1974 to 1985 are
shown in tables 2 and 3 of this Annex.
III.   Lime Plant
22.        Operating costs for the lime plant are based on estimates of TCC
and suppliers and updated for 1974. Table 4 of this Annex shows the projec-
tions of production and operating costs from 1975 to 1985 based on the assump-
tion that Phase I of the plant (rated at 20,000 TPY) would commence operation
in 1975 and Phase II (rated at 69,000 TPY) in 1976. The following table gives
the operating costs, expressed in 1974 prices, at 100% capacity (89,000 TPY).



ANNEX 6-2
Page 7
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
OPERATING COSTS FOR LIME PLANT
Total Costs          Cost Per Ton
(000 LE)               (LE)
1.   Raw Materials         (A)       50.7                  0.57
2.   Fuel                  (A)       92.6                  1.04
3.   Electricity           (A)       32.0                  0.36
4.   Spares & Maintenance(C)         58.1                  0.66
S.   Labor (120 persons) (B)         57                    0.64
6.   Administration        (D)        6.4                  0.07
7.   Others                (E)        6.4                  0.07
Total 1 to 7                   303.2                  3.41
SUMMARY OF OPERATING COSTS
1.   Materials & Supplies(A)        175.3                  1.97
2.   Labor                 (B)       57                    0.64
3.   Maintenance           (C)       58.1                  0.66
Cost of Goods Sold             290.4                  3.27
4.   Administration        (D)         6.4                 0.07
5.   Others                (E)         6.4                 0.07
Total 1 to 5                   303.2                  3.41
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



EGYPT                               AiNEX 6-2
Table 1
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
OPERATING COSTS FOR CEMENT PLA14T
1v
Existing Plant     Expansion (Incremental CostsY
Code for               Cost                   Cost
Summary Total Cost  Per Ton  Total Cost   Per Ton
(000L E7)  (L E )  (000  L E )    (L u%)
I. DETAILED OPERATING COSTS
1. Labor
Direct                 (B)       465        0.34      84.6         0.12
Maintenance            (C)       411        0.31       9.4         0.01
Administration         (D)       294        0.22        -
Subtotal 1                  1,170                               0.13
2. Materials, Supplies, Spares
Pyrite, Slag           (A)        94        0.07      50.0         0.07
Refractories           (C)       156        0.12      83.0         0.12
Grinding Media         (C)       264       0.19      140.0         0.19
Other Mat. & Supplies (C)        338        0.25     180.0         0.25
Spares                 (C)       396        0.29     215.00.30
Subtotal 2                  1,2L8       0.92      668.0        0.93
3.  Fuel                       (A)     1,641        1.22     486.o         0.68
4.  Electricity                (A)       744        0.55     491.0         o.68
5.  Paper                      (A)     1,890        1.40   1,008.0         1.40
6.  Miscellaneous              (C)       124        0.09      12.0         0.02
7.  Other                      (E)       163        0.12        -
Total 1 to 7                6,90        5.1T   2,85.            3.98
II. SUEDNARY OF OPERATING COSTS
1.  Materials, Utilities       (A)     4,369        3.24   2,035.0         2.83
& Supplies
2.  Labor                      (B)       465        0.34      84.6         0.12
3.  Maintenance                (C)     1 689        1.25     738.4         1.03
Cost of goods                 64.83   2,8.W                       3.98
sold
4.  Administration             (D)        294       0.22        -
5.  Other                      (E)       163        0.12        -          _
Total 1 to 5                  6,980        5.16   2,858.0         3.98
1/  These costs relate only to the Expansion, excluding existing facilit½es.
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



ANNEX 6-2
Table 2
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND OPERATING COST PROJECTIONS i  A. EXISTING PLANT ONLY
rITFS                         CODE 2/            1974       1975       1976      1977       1978-85
I.   PRODUCTION (in Million TPY)
1.   Ordinary Cement                        0.90       0.90      0.90       0.90        0.90
2.   Rapid Hardening  Ceeent                0.25       0.25      0.25       0.25        0.25
3.   Mixed Cement                           0.15       0.20       0.20      0.20        0.20
Total 1 - 3                          1.30       1.35      1.35             1.351-
II.   OPERATING COSTS (LE 000)
1.   Labor
a)   Direct Labor           (B X        465        488       513        538         565
b)   Maintenance & Support (C)          411        432       453        476         500
c)  Administration          (D)         294        309       324        340          57
Subtotal 1                  1170       1229       1290     1T354       +12
2.   Materials & Supplies
a)   Pyrite, Slag           (A)          91         94        94         94          94
b)   Refractories           (C)         150        156        156       156         156
c)   Grinding Media         (C)         254        264       264        264         264
d)   Other Materials &      (C)         325       338        338        338         338
Supplies
e)   Spare parts            (C)         382       436        480        528         581
Subtotal 2                  1202  .0128             12
3.   Fuel                         (A)       1580       1641       1641      1641        1641
4.   Electricity                  (A)        716        744        744       744         744
5.   Paper                        (A)       1599       1890       1890      1890        1890
6.   Miscellaneous Overhead       (C)        124        124        124       124         124
7.   Other                        (E)        163        163        163       163         163
Total 1 - 7                       gT7079               7184       72 72417
III.   SUMMARY OF OPERATING COSTS (LE 000)
1.   Mat. Utilities & Supply    (A)         3986       4369      4369       4369        4369
2.   Labor                        (B)        465        488        513       538         565
3.   Maintenance                 (C)        1646       1750       1815      1886        1963
Costs of Goods (Subtotal 1 to 3 60         B9 6697                My         ZB77
4.  Administration                (D)        294        309        324       340         357
5.   Other                        (E)        163        163        163       163         163
Totsa  1 to 5                                                                 76 70791 7T8  729  7417
IV.   COST PER TON (LE/Ton)                        5.04      5.24       5.32       5.40       5.49
1/   For detailed explanations refer to text of this Annex.
2/ Code letters indicate where detailed cost items belong in the "Summary of Operating Costs"
(Item III).
Industrial Projects Department
July '74



ANNEX 6-2
Table 3
Et;YPT
TOURAH CIMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
PRODUCTION OPERATING COST PROJECTIONS : B. PLANT EXPANSION ONLY
ITEKS                                 CODE 2/   1978        1979      1980       1981     1982-85
I.   PIODtUCTION (in Million TPY)
1.   Ordinary Cement                    310       41o        500       500        500
2.   Rapid Hardening Cement              80       110        140       140        140
3.   Mixed Cement                        40        60         80         80        80
Total 1-3                  O.1o       o0ro      b72        0.720 0.720.
II. OPERATING COSTS(LE 000)
1.  Labor
a)   Direct                 (B)         104       104        1014       104        1014
b)   Maintenance &          (C)          12         12        12         12         12
Support
c)   Administration         (D)          -          -         -          -          -
Subtotal 1                   116        116       1-16       TTs         ig
2.   Materials, Supplies, Spares
a)   Pyrite, Slag           (A)          37        45         50         50         50
b)   Refractories           (C)          -          75        83         83          83
c)   Grinding Media         (C)          -         91        140        140        140
d)   Other Materials &      (C)         135       162        180        180        180
Supplies
e)   Spare Parts            (C)          -        104        157        235        31h
Subtotal 2                   172       177        To                    767
3.   Fuel                        (A)         365       437        486        486        486
4.   Electricity                 (A)         368       442        491        491        491
5.   Paper                       (A)         605        806      1008       1008       1008
6.   Miscellaneous Overhead       (C)         12         12        12         12          12
7.   Other                       (E)           -          -         -          -           _
Totsa  1 to 7                    i          2290        723
III.  SUMMARY OF OPERATING COSTS (LE 000)
1.  Mat., Utilities, Supply    (A)          1375       1730      2035       2035       2035
2.  Labor                        (B)         104        104       104        104        104
3.   Maintenance                 (C)         159        456       584        662         741
Costs of Goods Sold                 2290             2723       2-9         TWO
(Subtotal 1 to 3)
4.   Administration               (D)         -          -         -          -
5.   Other                       (E)        12                   2723
Total (1 to 5)                   1638       2290       2723      21R-1       2350
IV.   COST/TON  (LE/Ton)                          3.81       3.95      3.78       3.89         4.0
.1 For detailed explanations refer to text of this Annex.
El Code letters indicate, where detailed cost items belong in the "Summary of Operating Costs"
(Item TII).
Industrial Projects Department
July '74



EGYPT
TOURAH CE21ENT EXPANSION PROJECT
PRODUCTION AND OPERATING COST PROJCTIONS1  C. LM  PLANT ONLY
ITEMS                  YEAR                        1975      1976      1977       1978      1279-1985
I.   PRODUCTION
1.  Phase I (Tons 000)                              12        16         20        20          20
2.  Phase II (Tons 000)                             -         41        55         69      -  69
Total Production                          12        57        75         89         89
II. COST OF PRODTJCTION (000 L E )
1.  Material & Supply                               29       138        161       175         175
2.  Labor                                           11        52        64         69         69
3.  Maintenance                                      9        46        54         59          59
Cost of Goods Sold (Subtotal 1 to 3)      49       236       279        303        303
4.  Administration                                   1         5          6         6           6
5.  Other                                            1         5          6         6           6
subtotal 4 to 5                            2        10        12         12         12
TOTAL 1 to 5                51        246       291        315          5
III.   TOTAL PRODUCTION COST PER TON (LE/T)               4.25      4.32       3.88      3.54        3.54                 & 
For detailed explanations please refer to the text of this rnnex.
Industrial Projects Department
July 1974



ANNEX 6-3
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
NOTES TO FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.        The financial projections are based on the production plan outlined
in Annex 6-2.  The expansion project is expected to start operating in early
1978 and to reach full production capacity by 1980. Since the cement prices
are expected to be periodically revised to reflect the increase in input
costs in order to maintain the financial viability of the cement companies,
any increase in input costs will be compensated for by a corresponding in-
crease in selling prices. Therefore, 1974 prices are used for the financial
projections with the exception of capital costs. However, financial rates of
return calculations are based on 1974 prices for capital costs as well.
2.        Net Sales.  Cement is sold on an ex-factory price basis and the
customer pays for the transportation costs. Details of revenue projections
are contained in Annex 6-1. Taxes, which are directly remitted to the Govern-
ment by ECO, are netted out from the sales price to show the actual revenue
to the Company. Net sales are also calculated on the basis of the product
mix given in Annex 6-2. Revenue from other sources, such as sales of foundry
products and revenue from services, which are based on the Company's previous
experience, is also included in the net sales.
3.        Operating Costs.  These costs are calculated on the basis of the
Company's past performance as well as the improvements that can be reasonably
expected due to the project. Assumptions used in calculating these cost
projections are elaborated on in Annex 6-2.
4.        Depreciation.  This follows the legally required rates and accord-
ing to the Standarized Accounting System in force in Egypt, assets must be
depreciated at the following rates:
5 years              -    for rolling stock, light moving equipment,
office equipment, pre-operating, startup
expenses and training expenses, interest
during construction;
8-10 years           -    for heavy moving equipment, drilling rigs,
etc;
20 years             -    for plant and equipment; and
33 years             -    for buildings and civil works.
5.        Financial Charges.  Financial charges are based on the following
assumptions. Financial charges due to the project during the construction
period are charged to the balance sheet:



ANNEX 6-3
Page 2
IBRD            -    The Bank Loan of LE 15.686 million (US$40 million)
will be onlent to the Company for 15 years includ-
ing 5 years of grace, at an effective interest
rate of 10 percent per annum. Interest on the
onlent funds during construction will be financed
by the Government. Repayment of the loan is assum-
ed to be on equal principal plus interest.
Arab Fund       -    LE 6.667 million (US$17 million) for 20 years
including 5 years grace, at 6% interest. Arab
Fund will finance interest on its loan during
construction. Repayment of this loan is based
on annuity payments.
Government
Participation  -    Assumed to be in the form of equity.
It is also assumed that the company will gradually reduce its Bank overdrafts
and by the time the project comes into operation, the Company will have no
short-term debt outstanding. Interest on short-term borrowings is assumed
to be 6% per annum.
6.        Taxes. Tax payable by the Company is calculated at 8.89% of net
profit before taxes. This is calculated on the following basis:
(i) At present income tax is 39.7% of the retained earnings; and
(ii) 85% of the net profit after taxes is distributed.
Let NP    -    Net profit before taxes
D    -    Distribution of profits  =    .85(NP-T)
T    -    Taxes                      -    .397(NP-D)
T    =    .397 NP - .397 x .85 NP + .397 x .85 T
=    .05953NP             NP x .0898
-    NP x 8.98%
7.        Retained Earnings.  It is assumed that 85% of the net profit after
taxes is paid out, as detailed in page 2 of Annex 2-4, to the Government and
to the Company's employees. Of the remainder, 5% is used for compulsory
purchase of government bonds in the following year. Payments of taxes as
well as distribution of profits are also assumed to be made in the following
year.
Industrial Projects Department
January, 1975



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS (With Expansion)
(LE 000)
1974        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979       1980       1981        1982         1983          1984
Cement Production ('000 tons)                      1,300/1    1,350        1,350       1,350        1,780       1,930      2,070       2,070      2,070        2,070         2,070
Net Sales
(1) Cement                                    10,426      11,097      11,097       11,097      14,632      15,865    17,015       17,015    17,015         17,015       17,015
(2) Lime                                           0           60         285         375         445          445        445        445        445           445          445
(3) Others                                       800          800         800         800         800          800        800        800        800           800          800
Total Net Sales                        11,226      11,957      12,182      12,272       15,877      17,110    18,260    18,260    18,260           18,260        18,260
Cost of Goods Sold
Materials, Supplies and Utilities              3,986        4,458       4,507       4,530       5,919        6,284      6,579      6,579      6,579         6,579        6,579
Labor                                            465          499         565         602          738         738        738         738        738          738           738
Maintenance                                    1,646        1,759       1,861       1,940        2,181       2,478      2,606      2,684      2,763         2,763         2,763
Gross Profit                            5,129       5,241       5,249       5,200        7,039       7,610      8,337       8,259      8,180        81,80         8,180
Operating Expenses
Administrative and Sales Expenses                 294         310         329         346          363         363        363         363        363          363           363
Depreciation                                      875         925       1,025       1,025       3,513        3,513      3,513      3,513      3,513         2,744        2,744
Other                                             163         164         168         169          169         169        169         169        169          169           169
Operating Profit                        3,797       3,842       3,727       3,660        2,994       3,565      4,292      4,214       4,135        4,904         4,904
Other Income                                         200         200         200          200         200         200         200        200        200           200          200
Financial Charges                                    150         117          103          75       1,454       1,820      1,956       1,830      1,702        1,533         1,337
Net Profit Before Taxes                 3,847       3,925       3,824        3,785       1,740       1,945      2,536       2,584      2,633        3,571         3,767
Taxes                                                345         352          343         340         156          175        228        232        236           321          338
Net Profit After Taxes                  3,502       3,573       3,481        3445        1,584       1,770      2,308       2,352      2,397        3,250         3,429
Distribution:
To Employees & GOBM                             2,977       3,037       2,959       2,928        1,347       1,505      1,962      1,999       2,037        2,762         2,914
To Reserves                                       350         357         348          345         158         177        231         235        240          325           343
To Reserves for Bonds                             175         179         174          172          79          88        115         118        120          163           172
Note:   For assumptions, See Annex 6-3.
/1 Recent information from the Company indicated production closer to 1,200,000 tons in 1974; effect on income statement has not been calculated, but impact
on cash flow is not expected to be substantial nor should results from 1975 be affected significantly.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS PROJECTIONS
(LE 000)
1974       1975        1976        1977       1978        1979       1980       1981      1982         1983         1984
SOURCES:
A. From Operations
Profit Before Taxes                       3,847       3,925      3,824       3,785       1,740       1,945     2,536      2,584      2,633        3,571        3,767
Depreciation                                875         925      1,025       1Q025       3,513       3,513     3,513      3,513      3.513        2,744
Cash Generation                       4,722      4,850       4,849       4,810       5,253      5,458      6,049      6,097      6,146       6,315        6,511
B.  Government Participation
(i)  for the Project                         -        2,889      6,246       2,698         266          -         -          -          -            -            -
(ii)  for Others                             200          -           -          -           -           -         -          -          -            -            -
200      2,889       6,246      2,698         266          -          -          -         -            -            -
C. Loans:
(i)  for the Project Loan                    -       5,832       3,218       2,937       1,739
(a)  IBRD      : Interest Capitalized  -          251         684       1,026         -           -          -          -          -            -            -
(b)  Arab Fund: Loan                    -       1,910       3,402       1,088         267         -          -          -          -            -           -
:Interest Capitalized  -            63         276         399        438          -          -          -          -            -            -
(ii)  for other investments                  182         919         -           -           -           -         -          -          -            -            -
182      8,975       7,580      5,450       2,444          -          _          _         _            _            _
D.  Decrease in Assets                            217          -           -           -          -           -         -           -         -            -            -
TOTAL SOURCES            5,321      16,714     18,675      12,958       7,963       5,458     6,049      6,097      6,146        6,315        6,511
APPLICATIONS:
E. Fixed Investment
(i) for the Project:
(a)  Fixed Investment                    55     10,587      12,721       6,502      2,272          -          -          -          -            -            -
(b)  Interest Capitalized                -         358       1,105       1,646        438          -          -          -          _            _            _
(ii) for other investments                   668       1,516          -          -           -           -         -          -          -            -            -
723     12,461      13,826      8,148       2,710          -          -          -         -            -            -
F.  Loan Repayments:
(i) IBRD                                     -           -          -           -           -           -      1,569      1,569      1,569        1,569        1,569
(ii) Arab Fund                                -           -          -           -           -          157       329        349        369          392          416
(iii) Other                                   156         196        181         180         115         101        87         87         87           87           87
156        196         181         180        115         258      1,985      2,005     2,025        2,048        2,072
G. Distribution of Profits                      1,336       2,977       3,037      2,959       2,928       1,347      1,505      1,962     1,999        2,037        2,762
H.  Payment of Taxes                              210         345         352         343        340         156        175        228       232          236         321
I.  Decrease in Overdraft                         500         500         500        500         522
J.  Purchase of Government Bonds                   52         175         179         174        172          79         88        115       118          120         163
K.  Change in Working Capital                   1,160         450         498          -         696          39         37         -          -           -            -
L.  Surplus (Deficit) Cash                      1,184         390)        102         654        480       3,579      2,259     1,787      1,772        1,874        1,193
TOTAL APPLICATIONS      5,321      16,714     18,675      12,958       7,963       5,458     6,049      6,097      6,146        6,315        6,511
Surplus Cash B.O.Y.                       0       1,184        794         896       1,550      2,030      5,609      7,868      9,655       11,427       13,301
Surplus Cash E.O.Y.                   1,184         794        896       1,550       2,030      5,609      7,868      9,655    11,427       13,301       14,494
Note: For assumptions, See Annex 6-3.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAHi CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET PROJECTIONS (with Expansion)
(LE 000)
1974        1975        1976        1977        1978         1979       1980       1981       1982       198J       1984
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash & Bank                                      400         400         400         400          600         600        600        600         600        600        600
Receivables                                      936         997       1,015        1,023       1,323       1,426      1,522      1,522      1,522       1,522      1,522
Inventory                                      3,623       3,636       3,636       3,636        5,417       5,456      5,493      5,493      5,493       5,493      5,493
SUD-total                              4,959       5,033        5,051       5,059       7,340       7,482      7,615      7,615       7,615      7,615      7,615
Surplus Cash                                   1,184         794         896        1,550       2,030       5,609      7,868      9,655    131427    i13301    14,494
6,143       5,827       5,947       6,609       9,370       13,091    15,483      17,270     19,042     20,916    22,109
Fixed Assets:
Gross Assets                                  13,808      14,808      15,808       19,045      53,444      53,444    53,444      53,444    53,444    53,444    53,444
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                 7,650       8,575       9,600       10,625      14,138      17,651    21,164    24,677    28,190    30,934    33,678
Net Fixed Assets                               6,158       6,233       6,208       8,420       39,306      35,793    32,280      28,767     25,254    22,510       19,766
Projects Under Construction                       3,776      15,237      28,063       32,974          -            -          -          -          -          -          -
Other Assets:
Other Investments                              1,077       1,077       1,077         1,077       1,077      1,077      1,077      1,077       1,077      1,077      1,077
Investments in Bonds                             520         695         874        1,048       1,220       1,299      1,387      1,502      1,620       1,740      1,903
1,597       1,772       1,951       2,125       2,297        2,376      2,464      2,579      2,697      2,817      2,980
TOTAL ASSETS          17,674      29,06       42,169      50,128      50,973       51,260    50,227    48,616    46,99         46,243    44,855
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Accounts Payable                               1,871        1,495       1,015       1,023       1,323       1,426      1,522       1,522      1,522      1,522      1,522
Bank Over Draft                                2,022       1,522        1,022         522          -            -          -          -          -          -          -
Dividends Payable                              2,977       3,037        2,959       2,928       1,347       1,505      1,962      1,999      2,037       2,762      2,914
Tax Payable                                      345          352         343         340         156         175         228        232        236        321        338
Current Portion of Long Term Debt                196          181         180         115         258       1,985      2,005      2,025       2048       2,072      2,09
7,411       6,587       5,519       4,928       3,084        5,091      5,717      5,778      5,843      6,677      6,865
Long Term Debt                                       173       8,967      16,367      21,702      23,888      21,903    19,898       17,873     15,825    13,753    11,662
Other Liabilities                                    252         252         252         252         252          252        252        252        252        252         252
Equity:
Share Capital                                  2,231       2,231       2,231        2,231       2,231       2,231      2,231      2,231       2,231      2,231      2,231
Government Participation                       2,664       5,553       11,799      14,497      14,763      14,763     14,763    14,763    14,763    14,763    14,763
Reserves                                       4,267       4,624       4,972        5,317       5,475       5,652      5,883      6,118       6,358      6,683      7,026
Reserves for Government Bonds                    676          855       1,029        1,201      _,280       1,368      1,483       1,601      l,7 21     1,88       2,05
9,838      13,263      20,031      23,246      23,749       24,014    24,360    24,713    25,073    25,561    26,076
TOTAL. LIABILITIES  17,674       29,069      42,169      50,128      50,973       51,260    50,227    48,616    46,993    46,243    44,855
Current Ratio                                      0.83         0.88        1.08        1.34         3.04        2.57       2.71       2.99       3.25       3.13        3.22
Debt/Equity Ratio                                   2:98      40:60        45:55       45:55        50:50      48:52       45:55      42:58      39:61      35:65       31:69
Debt Service Coverage                              14.8        14.7        16.2        17.8           4.8        3.8        2,0        2.1        2.1         2.2        2.3
Note: For assumptions, See Annex 6-3.
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1974



EGYPT
TNCO2E STATEMENT PROJECTIONS (Without Expansion)
(LE 000)
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978         1979       1980        1981       1982          1983         1984
Cement Production                                  1,300        1,350       1,350        1,350       1,350        1,350      1,350      1,350       1,350         1,350        1,350
Net Sales
(1) cement                                     10,426      11,097       11,097      11,097      11,097       11,097     11,097      11,097     11,097        11,097       11,097
(2) Lime                                            0          60          285         375          445         445         445        445        445           445           445
(3) Other                                         800         800          800         800          800         800         800        800        800           800          _80Q
Total Net Sales                        11,226       11,957      12,182       12,272      12,342       12,342     12,342    12,342       12,342       12,342        12,342
Cost of Goods Sold
Materials, Suipplies and Utilities              3,986       4,458        4,507       4,530        4,544       4,544       4,544      4,544      4,544         4,544         4,544
Labor                                             465          499         565          602         634          634        634        634         634          634           634
Maintenance                                    f1,646        1,759       1,861        1,940      22,022       2,022       2,022      2,022       2,022        2,022         2,022
Gross Profit                            5,129        5,241       5,249        5,200       5,1'2        5,142      5,142       5,142      5,142         5,142        5,142
Operating Expenses
Administrative and Sales Expenses                 294          310         329          346         363          363        363         363        363           363          363
nepreciatino.                                     875          925       1,025        1,025       1,025       1,025       1,025      1,025       1,025        1,025         1,025
other                                             163          164         168          169         169          169        169        169         169          169           169
Operating Profit                        3,797        3,842       3,727        3,660       3,585        3,585      3,585       3,585      3,585         3,585        3,585
Other Income                                          200         200         200          200         200          200        200         200        200           200          200
Financial Charges                                     150         117          103          75           18          16          11          9          6             4             2
Net Profit Before Taxes                 3,847        3,925       3,824        3,785       3,767        3,769      3,774      3,776       3,779         3,781        3,783
Taxes                                                 345         352          343         340          338         338         339        339        339           340           340
Net Profit After Taxes                  3,502        3,573       3,481        3,445       3,429        3,431      3,435      3 437       3,440         ____         3,443
Distribution:
To Employees & COBM                             2,977        3,037       2,959       2,928        2,915       2,917       2,919      2,921       2,924        2,925         2,927
To Reserves                                       350          357         348          345         343          343        344         344        344           344          344
To Reserves for Bonds                              175         179         174          172          171         171        172         172        172           172          172
Note: For assumptions, See Annex 6-3.
Industrial Projects Depertmert
August, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
BALANCE SIIEET PROJECTICNS (Without Expansion)
(LE 000)
1974       1975       1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and Rank                                           400         400        400         400         400        400         400        400          400         400         400
Receivables                                             936         997      1,015       1,023       1,029       1,029      1,029      1,029        1,029       1,029       1,029
Inventory                                             3,623       3636                   3.636       3.63        3.636      3.,66      3,636        3.636       3,636       3.636
Sub-total                                          4,959       5,033      5,051      5,059       5,065       5,065       5,065      5,065        5,065       5,065       5,065
Surplus Cash                                          1,239         849        951       1,605       2.319       3,589      4,875      6,159        7,443       8,727      10,011
6,198      5,882      6,002       6,664       7,384       8,654       9,040    11,224        12,508      13,792      15,076
Fixed Assets:
Gross Assets                                         13,808      14,808    15,808       19,045      19,045     19,045      19,045    19,045        19,045       19,045    19,045
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                       7,650       8.575      9,600      10,625      11.650      12,675     13,700    14 725         L5,750      16,775    17.800
6,158      6,233      6,208       8,420       7,395       6,370       5,345     4,320         3,295        2.270      1,245
Project Under Construction                                3,721      4,237      3,237               -           -           -          -           -                   -          -
Other Assets:
Other Investments                                     1,077       1,077      1,077       1,077       1,077       1,077      1,077      1,077        1,077         1,077     1,077
Investments in Bonds                                    520         695        874       1.048       1.220      1 3          1,562     1,734        ,906         2.078      2.250
1,597      1,772      1.951       2,125       2,297       2,468       2,639      2,811        2.983        3,155     3,327
TOTAL ASSITS            17,674       8         1.7,439     17,209                      9                  187.33      187,96        19.217    19.648
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Accouats Payable                                       1,871      1,495      1,015       1,023       1,029       1,029       1,029      1,029        1,029       1,029       1,029
Bank Overdraft                                        2,022       1,522      1,022         522         -           -           -          -            -           -
Dividends Payable                                     2,977       3,037      2,959       2,928       2,915       2,917       2,919      2,921       2,924        2,925      2,927
Tax Payable                                              345        352        343         340         338         339         339        339          339         340         340
Current Position of Long-Term Debt                       196        181        180         115         101          87          87         87           87          87          80
7,411      6,587      3,519       4,928       4,383       4,372       4,374      4,376        4,379       4,381       4,376
Long-Term Debt                                              173         911       731         616         515         428         341        254          167          80           0
Other Liabilities                                           252         252       252         252         252         252         252        252          252         252         252
Equity:
Share Capital                                         2,231       2,231      2,231       2,231       2,231       2,231       2,231      2,231        2,231       2,231      2,231
Government Participation                               2,664      2,664      2,664       2,664       2,664       2,664       2,664      2,664        2,664       2,664       2,664
Reserves                                              4,267       4,624      4,972       5,317       5,659       6,002      6,347      6,691         7,034       7,378      7,722
Reserves for Government Bonds                           676         855      1 029       1,201       1,372       1,543       1,715      1,887        2,059       2,231      2X403
9,838     10,374    10,896       11,413      11.926      1,          12,957    13,473        13.988      14,504      15.020
TOTAI LIABILITIES       17,674     18.124    17,398       17,209      17.076      17,492      17,924    18,355        18.786      19,217      19,648
Current Retio                                               .84        .89       1.09        1.35        1.69        1.98        2.27       2.56         2.86        3.15        3.44
Debt/Equity Ratio                                          2:98       8-92       6:94        5:95        4:96        3:97        3:97       2:98         1:99        1:99        0:100
Note:  rmr assumptions, See Annex 6-3
Industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



ANNEX 6-9
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
BREAK-EVE:N-POINT ANALYSIS
Existing Plant and Expansion
1.        The break-even point of the fully expanded plant has been calculated
based on total costs in the year 1980 when the plant is assumed to operate at
100% of rated capacity. Costs for the lime plant have been excluded.
2.        The following basic data were used to determine the break-even point
for the expanded cement plant.
1. TOTAL COSTS                           Fixed      Variable       Total
Costs        Costs       Costs
O  __      _______00 --
Labor                              1307           231       1,538
Fuel                                 213        1 ,914       2,127
Electricity                          124        1,111       1,235
Paper                                  0        2,898        2,898
Spare Parts                          221          517          738
Grinding Media                       121          283          404
Refractories                         191           48          239
Pyrite and Slag                       14          130          144
Other Materials                      104 Oi14                  518
Miscellaneous Overhead               299            0          299
Depreciation                       3,513            0        3,513
Financial Charges                  1,95             0        1,956
Total        8,063        7,546       15,609
Percentage   51.7%        48.3%         100%
2. REVEN1UE                                          17,815
3. DEBT REPAYMENT                                     1, 985
The resulting break-even points are:
PROFIT BREAK-EVEN POINT (percentage Capacity)      78.5%
CASH BREAK-EVEN POINT (percentage Capacity)        6 3.7



ANN:EX 6-9
Page 2
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
PROFIT BREAK EVEN POINT FOR THE TOTAL EXPANDED PLANT
YEAR 1980
(LE Millions)                                              (LE Millions)
18.00                                                              17.80
Profit156
15.00                                 Break Even          A5.61
(13.98)
12.00
9.00
Fixed Costs                   8 06
7.60
6.oo                    _'I
3.00 
0         20          40          60        / 80         1OOg
(78. 5%)
% of Capaicity
Industrial Projects Department
December, 1971.



ANNEX 6-10
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Assumptions
1.       FinancialJ rate of return calculations are based on an incremental
basis; cost and benefit streams are given in page 2 of this Annex.  These
cost and benefit streams are derived from the financial projections and
reflect costs and benefits in 1974 real value terms. The capital cost estimate
of the project  is in current prices--i.e., it includes price escalations.
Fixed investments, in current terms, required to maintain the present production
level, if the project is not implemented, have been deducted from the fixed
asset cost estimate of the project to arrive at the incremental fixed asset
cost.  For the purpose of financial rate of return calculations, this cost
has been deflated by 7% per annum to arrive at the fixed cost in 1974 real
tenms, under the assumption that the average world inflation would be about
7% per annum. Revenue calculations as well as operating cost estimates are
based on 1974 prices.
2.       Other basic assumptions used in the financial rate of return calcu-
lations are as follows:
Construction period            4 years
Life of the project            20 years
Scrap value                    LE 772,000 (Assuming that incremental working
capital will be available after
the expected project life)
Revenue to the company         LE 8.22/ton of bagged cement
Fuel (at subsidized rate)      LE 7.5/ton
Increase in direct labor       200 persons
force



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(LE 000)
CAPITAL COST                                                               OPERATING COST-                                         REVENUE-
EXPANDED CASED/        BASE  CASE           INCREENTAL            Incremental  Incremental        EXPANDED CASE          BASE  CASE       INCREMENTAL      EXPANDED CASE          BASE CASE       INCRE-
(With Expansion)  (Without Expansion)  In current  In 1974   3  Working         Capital Cost    (With Expansion)  (Without Expansion)                      (With Expansion)  (Without Expansion) MENTAL
terms     Net Prices-  Capital~6/    in 1974
Real Prices
1974           55                   0                55           55            0            55               6,554               6,554                  0              11,226             11,226              0
1975       10,587               3,963             6,624        6,191            0         6,191               7,130               7,130                  0              11,957             11,957              0
1976       12,721               2,335            10,386        9,071            0         9,071               7,430               7,430                  0              12,182             12,182              0
1977        6,502               1,195             5,307        4,332            0         4,332               7,587                7,587                 0              12,272             12,272              0
1978        2,968                 295             1,977        1,508          696         2,204               9,370               7,732              1,638              15,877             12,342          3,535
1979           39                   0                 0            0           39            39              10,032               7,732              2,300              17,110             12,342          4,768
1980           37                   0                 0            0           37            37              10,455               7,732              2,723              18,260             12,342          5,918
1981            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,533               7,732              2,801              18,260             12,342          5,918
1982            0                   0                 0            0           0              0              10,612               7,732              2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1983            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,612                7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1984            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,612                7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1985            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,612                7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1986            0                   0                 0            0            0              0             10,612               7,732              2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1987            0                   0                 0            0            0              0             10,612               7,732              2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1988            0                   0                 0            0            0              0              10,612              7,732              2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1989            0                   0                 0            0            0              0             10,612               7,732              2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1990            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,612                7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1991            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,612                7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1992            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,612               7,732              2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1993            0                   0                 0            0            0             0              10,612               7,732              2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1994            0                   0                 0            0            0             0               10,612               7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1995            0                   0                 0            0            0              0              10,612               7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1996            0                   0                 0            0            0              0              10,612               7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
1997            0                   0                 0            0         -772          -772               10,612               7,732             2,880              18,260             12,342          5,918
Incremental Financial Rate of Return = 10.4%
1/ Excluding incremental working capital and interest during construction.
2! Excludes depreciation, financial charges, and taxes. These costs are in 1974 prices. For details refer to Annex 6-2.
3/ 1974 real prices are calculated by deflating current prices using a 77. per annum deflator.
4/ Incremental working capital attributable to the project and is assumed to be recouped after the economic life of the project.
5/ Revenue calculations are based on 1974 prices.  For details refer to Annex 6-1.
1>



EGYPT
Ai\l\7IEX 6-1o
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT                         Page 3
SEESITIVITY TESTS ON FI1ANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
20%~
o~~~~~c.
4~10%
0
-30         -20          -10            0           10           20           30
A<     Decrease              Base            Increase      ->
Case
% Variation in Input
Case             Capital Cost    Operating Cost    Revenue    Rate of Return
1. (Base Case)        100                100            100            10.4
2.                    110                110            100             8.1
3.                    110               110              90             5-5
4.                     90                 90            100            15.3
5.                    110                100            110            11.4
6. One year Project delay                                               9.1
7. One year Project delay and 15),c- cost overrun                       7.4
Industrial Projects Department
August 1974



ANNEX 7-1
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CE24ENT EXPANSION PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Assumptions
1.         All costs and revenues are expressed in real 1974 prices and are
derived on the following basis: (a) benefit stream is based on the opportunity
cost of importing cement; (b) production cost is calculated using world market
prices for main inputs; and (c) all taxes and duties are excluded. However,
no shadow pricing of the foreign exchange has been employed.
Revenue
2.         TCC's net sales are valued at adjusted 1974 world market prices
(c.i.f. Egyptian port), which are derived from conservatively estimated long-
term European f.o.b. cement prices. Historically, European domestic cement
prices have been somewhat higher than export prices. In the late 1960s some
countries exported cement at marginal cost due to domestic oversupply. A.
number of cement plants came on stream in the late 1960s and early 1970s when
domestic demand was somewhat depressed in most European countries. This resulted
in an oversupply situation and spare capacity for export markets. However, during
the 1972-1974 period, the increase in demand was not matched with increased supply
and for the past year or two there was a significant shortage of cement throughout
the world. This shortage, along with the recent price increase of petroleum plus
changes in currency values have pushed up cement prices, particularly for export
cement. In September, 1974, f.o.b. European port prices on the average varied
between US$30 - 35 per ton of bagged cement. The domestic selling prices of
cement are controlled or influenced bm most governments and prices of begged
cement in most European countries in September were about US$25 - 35.
3.         The recent cement shortage situation is not expected to continue and
already domestic demand in many countries has slackened substantially. Further-
more, a large number of expansion programs are at present being carried out, or
under study, in the Mediterranean and Persian Gulf region; by the end of the
decade, it is expected that demand and supply would be in a better balance.
Under a stable demand/supply situation, the export prices would be more  n line
with domestic selling prices. However, on the conservative assumption that
long-term international competition might be greater than in the recent "sellers';
market, the long-term f.o.b. European bagged cement price is assumed at US$25 per ton,
a level somewhat lower than at present. Assuming that if Egypt were to import cement,
it would import from nearby countries, such as Greece or Turkey, the transportation
cost, including insurance, is conservatively estimated to be about US$7 per ton of
cement; this would give an economic accounting price for bagged cement of about
US$32 per ton at the port of Alexandria; this is used for sales revenue calcula-
tions. However, if the world prices were to drop to the level of the marginal
cost of production, which is highly unlikely, the economic accounting price of
cement at the port of Alexandria could be about US$28 per ton of bagged cement,
including US$7 per ton transportation cost.



ANNEX 7-1
Page 2
Operating Cost
4.         Fuel oil:  This is the most important cost element in the operating
costs. In calculating the fuel cost, the subsidy element has been removed by
using an international price of about US$57.4 (or LE 22.5) per ton of fuel
(Bunker C); this is equivalent to about US$8.1 (or LE 3.2) per barrel. If
fuel oil prices in world trade continue to increase, then the economic account-
ing price of cement would also increase. At higher prices for fuel oil,
alternative fuels, such as coal and lignite on a world-wide basis, are likely
to become economic heating materials for the kiln.
Labor cost:  No shadow price for labor has been assumed because TCC
requires mainly skilled labor, which is in short supply.  However, total labor
costs exclude taxes and contributions amounting to 13% of the total wage bill.
Other costs: No adjustments have been made with respect to other
operating cost elements with the exception of imported spare parts; the cost
of spare parts excludes duties amounting to about 15%.
Project Cost
5.         Project cost, which is in current terms, has been deflated by 7% per
annum from the year of disbursement to arrive at the capital cost in 1974 real
terms, under the assumption that the average world inflation would be about 7%
per annum. Moreover, duties and taxes totaling LE 2.1 million have been exluded.
Life of the Project
6.         The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years from the year of
commissioning.



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
STREAMS FOR ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
1984
1974     1975      1976    1977       1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983    onward
A. Capital Cost Estimates: (LE 000)
Project                                                   55   10,587  12,721    6,502    2,272          -         -         -          -        -
Less: Duties & Taxes                                      -       215     850    1,060             -              -         -         -         -         -
Sub Total (I)                                   55   10,372  11,871    5,442    2,272           -         _         _         _         _         _
Investments Required Without Project -                     -    3,963   2,335    1,195         295       -         -         -          -        -         -
Less: Duties & Taxes                                      -       157      310       150        -       -         -          -         -         -         -
Sub Total (II)                                   -    3,806   2,025    1,045          295       -         -         -         _         _         _
Incremental Fixed Cost (I-II)                             55    6,566   9,846    4,397    1,977          -         _         -         _         _         _
Incremental Fixed Cost (deflated at 7% per annum)    55    6,136   8,599    3,589    1,508               -         -         -         -         -         -
Incremental Working Capital                                -      -         -         -        696         39        37      -          -        -          -
Total Incremental Capital Cost                            55    6,136   8.599    3,589    2.204            39        37       -         -         -         -
B. Operating Costs:
Total Operating Cost (with Expansion)                  9,506   10,197  10,509   10,658   13,143   13,923   14,446   14,513   14,580   14,580   14,580
.Total Operating Cost (without Expansion)               9,506   10,197  10.509          10      ,791 10 ,791   10,791   10 ,791   10.791   10. 791       10,791
Incremental Operating Cost                               - 0       - 0      -0 O       -     2,352    3,132    3,655    3,722    3.789    3
C. Revenue:
Total Cement Production (with Project) ( 000 TPY) 1,300    1,350   1,350    1,350    1,780    1,930    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070    2,070
Total Revenue (LE  000)                             16,315   16,943  16,943   16,943   22,339   24,222   25,979   25,979   25,979   25,979   25,979
Total Cement Production (without
Project) ( 000 TPY)       1,300    1,350   1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350
Total Revenue (LE  000)                              16,315   16.943  16,943          16. 943   16 ,943   16. 943   16.943   16,943          16,943   16,943
Incremental Revenue (LE  000)                           - 0       - O      - O       - C    5,396    7,279    9,036    9.036    9,036    9,036    9.036
Incremental Economic Rate of Return = 18.9%
1/ If project is not implemented, this investment will be required to maintain the present level
of production (see Annex 5-1, page 5).
rD



A,I\LEX 7-1
EGYPT                                     Pg  
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
SENSITIVITY TESTS ON ECOh4OMIC RATE 0=§ RETURN
25%
20%6
(1_.9%                     _  _
0
4-:
0
0
1. (Base Case)       1003              100            100           18.9
'9.                  113               110            100           15.2
3.                   110               110             90           13.2
a.                    90                90           1 00           21. 9
50                    lG10             130            10            20.0
6.  One year Project delayr                                         16.3
iS. One year Project delaly and 1 Op cost overrun                  12 .9



EGYPT                                 AIIIJEX 7-1
TOUAHI CE:tVIENT EXPANSION PROJECT
EFFECT OF PRICES ONI ECONOIMIC RATE OF RETURN
I         I             .                         t      #
24
23
22  _
21
20
18.9    , i &f - I_ _ _ h 
17
1 7       $a84/
13~~~~0
12
.1
117  1,  1,9 20  2,1  222    2, 3      6  2 2   8 2' 20     3~12  33
Cement Price  -MFB European Fort (U$per ton)
100  90 80  70 6o 0   40   30 20
Fuel Price (US$ per ton)
Industrial Projects Departmnent
December, 1974,



ANNEX 7-2
Page 1
EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
RISK ANALYSIS
1.        Details of economic rate of return calculations together with the
assumptions used are given in Annex 7-1. These calculations are based on the
best estimates possible at present. However, since there are a number of
uncertainties prevailing in the world, there could be some variations in the
cost and benefit streams. For example, depending on the order books of the
equipment supply industries and the general price behavior of steel and
other metals, the equipment cost could vary from the present estimates.
Moreover, with respect to local construction cost estimates, it is hard to
predict how these costs will behave in the future in light of the tremendous
investment programs planned in ARE for the future. Regarding world market
prices for cement and fuel, although both are somewhat related, it is hard
to quantify all factors, such as commercial factors, technological break-
throughs, supply and demand distortions, and rising transport costs, which
could have a major effect on future prices.   Therefore, in order to take
account of these uncertainties in the economic rate of return of the project,
a risk analysis has been carried out.
2.        The percentage variations of cost and benefit streams and their
probabilities are assumed as follows:
Caqital Cost                       peratin, 'Costs                     bene'Lits
'479-  ,*4ts                             t o                      , 1 .7
> l1.0**                  -4                                                                44  *> 13
r 3i .. 23_
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
, .2     -                      .2         V                          2
. 2-    0   2                   .2    i   0 4
4                           4~~~~~~~~ r            H                 -
hqria+tio-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 7-2
Page 2
Capital Cost                Operating Cost                 Revenue
Cumulative                   Cumulative                    Cumulative
% Variation  Probability    % Variation  Probability    % Variation  Probability
-20 to -1)4     .1           -20 to -12        .1          -25 to -18        .1
-14 to -10       .2          -12 to - 8        .2          -18 to -12        .2
-10 to - 6       .3          - 8 to - 5        .3          -12 to - 8        .3
-6 to - 3      .4           - 5 to - 2        .4          - 8 to - 4        . 4
-3 to   0        .5          - 2 to   0        .5          - 4 to - 0        .5
0 to   5       .6            0 to   3        .6            0 to   3        .6
5 to  11       .7            3 to   7        .7            3 to   6        .7
11 to  20       .8            7 to  12        .8            6 to   9        .8
20 to  34       .9           12 to  19        .9            9 to  13        .9
34 to  60     1.0            14 to  30       1.0           13 to  20       1.0
3.        Based on the above probability distribution, the expected economic
rate of return would be 17.9% with a standard deviation of 4.6%. Economic
rate of return and the cumulative probability distribution are given in the
following chart and the major observations are summarized below.
Expected Economic Rate of Return             17.90%
Standard Deviation                            4.58%
Cumulative Probability              Rate of Return (%)
0.05                             11
0.25                             14
0.50                             18
0.75                             22
0.95                             25
4.        There is a 90% chance that the economic rate of return of the project
would be within 11% and 25%. The chances of the return being above 27% or
below 10% are negligible and the probability of its being above 1h% is 75%.
Therefore, the project is expected to provide a satisfactory return even under
adverse conditions.



Annex 7-2
Page 3
1DGrPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
CUMULATIVE PROBABILITY OF RATE OF RE,TURN
4A1., 1I\r On'IvALLUN
Jr-.LICAL       ue   <-1    =          J
doi MM C-) =-uj .8Ju
fxCn.EiniVt = U.dQO°
o~U:'.I UxBAL: L.A  L    ) T   =    b-5
.ISsni   V)  =    'U.U
i h =  .)U
1~ ~       ~................   .........   .........
+ 
+ 
+
1.06 - 
+                                                      /
+
+
+                                                    /
.-     +
* 0.8-
+
4. +
s     +
rl                                    B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
+
0. -
+
+
+
+                          + 
+
+                                    I
+                     *            1
+                   *                I
+
+                         I
+                        1
0.2-             -          B       
+                                    I8
I  10               15%    17.9% 2C0%           25%           30%           35%          40%
Rate of' Return
industrial Projects Department
August, 1974



EGYPT
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE SAVINGS
(LE 000)
1974     1975    1976       1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
A. Expanded Case (with Expansion)
1. Gross Savings in Foreign Currency-                16,315   16,943   16,943  16,943   22,339   24,222   25,979   25,979   25,979   25,979   25,979
2. Exchange Expenses Incu red in Operations:
Imported Spare Parts-                               325       371      408      449       494       582       627       694       761       761       761
Interest Payments                                    14        11       27        21    1,239    1,584    1,733    1,622    1,510    1,3 62    1,192
Loan Repayments                                     156       196      181       180      115       258    1.426    1.482    1.502    1.52          1.5
495      578      616       650    1,848    2,424    3,786    3,798    3,773    3,648    3,502
3. Fuel Exports Foregone2                             4,740    4,923   4,923    4,923    6.018    6,234    6,381    6,381    6,381    6.381    6,381
4. Net Savings in Foreign Currency (1-(2+3))         11.080   11.442  11,404   11,370   14.473   15.564   15,812   15.800   15,825   15.950   16.096
B. Base Case (without Expansion)
5. Gross Savings in Foreign Currency1/               16,315   16,943  16,943   16,943   16,943   16,943   16,943   16,943   16,943   16,943   16,943
6. Exchange Expenses Inc   red in Operations:
Imported Spare Parts-                               325       371     408       449       494       494       494       494       494       494       494
Interest Payments                                    14        11       27        21       18        16        11         9         6         4         2
Loan Repayments                                     156       196      181       180       115       101       87        87        87        87        87
495      578      616       650       627       611       592       590       587       585       583
7. Fuel Exports Foregon                               4.740    4,923   4.923    4,923    4,923    4.923    4,923    4,923    4.923    4.923    4.923
8. Net Savings in Foreign Currency (5-(6+7))         11.080   11,442  11.404   11,370   11,393   11.409   11,428   11.430   11.433   11.435   11,437
9. Incremental Net Savings in Foreign
Currency (4-8)                                        0         0        0         0    3,080    4,155    4,384    4.370    4,392    4515    4 659
10. Incremental Net Savings (in US$  000)                        0        0        0          7      7           10 , 19   11,400                        11,880
I/Foreign exchange attributable to cement production.  Price assumptions are same as those used for economic rate of return calculations.
2/ Excludes duties and taxes.
3/ This is based on the assumption that if the plant is not operating the fuel could be exported at US$57.4/ton
Industrial Projects Department
December. 1974



IBRD 11196
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                                                     $j- E,,E, 1974-
TOURAH  CEMENT EXPANSION  PROJECT                                                                                    f )    UDRIAN
Quarries and Transportation Arrangement                                                                                       ABLSANN/) REPUBLIC,
-<97f W$f                                                                              -   Clay quarlry                               ~~-nn Co y~C  q-r
Cereent plenf                                          )                                                    r,
Contour lines, eaers imOU
AFLets for day resrv i-oesigatimn                                                                             AD
*b  * XSac  ,Clay deposits under nietsigato                                        I, ARAEiA
7                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Conveyor betsh
WIre fenor                                                                 I                     /
Hich-tei. ons etriv ines                                                   j ARAB REPUBLIC
XC<9    ~7Utastl>,, erurher  \s;                                       Dvdd highway                                                                     OF  EGYPT         l
C>  +   Crurher   /;lns Bln                                  | |   Oth., Rollwr yS                                                             i        S UdDAN 
C-                   B"                                                              R . d-yiVrllaeh!holrlh#/(
//  1E I   X            9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1[A
U   e         <                     wV  i t ¢ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o              <         ffs    +  ft                         _1~~~~~~~C
- =      =       >      _~~~,i. . So.  -tC
Si~k  I                                                                         iM    
j , glitsfL, wrer2 . ru 1/2 , ! _ _~~-F






4 >:    Ltia   :    :t :=;       2        . S '      EEr                       0? '=f,ra  M Y 3       :t            ~             'P      AE                             ' 
:= =ITA     f- >'  T. =              =      :A ."=S    =2                                         000=55.1           =  =*etv      =r t ,e  .                      T   ,=    
00A ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    .
-              _             A
-5t'  .  r ,.   . '4p   j                                                           :R   R o       i E - =                  8              =        _~~           a  .
LOCATION OF EXISTING AND PROJECTEDCEMENTPLANTS                                                                                    E
,/ ~         ~          I- -__,                                                            u                                                                    H -j 
WA~~~~~~A
-210                   ~~ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                         IA=oos\                                                                                 §  
TOURAH CEMENT EXPANSION PROJECT  ->j                                                                                         it z
LOCA~TION OF EXISTING AND PROJECTED CEMENT PLANTS                                                                                                                                        |wm '
*         EXISTING PLANTSEEE                                                                                                            f /XEj
*         PLANNEE AEPARAIVEE VF EXISTINGrANT                                                                Ss iK                11-(W
*         PLANNED NEWPLAN_-S
SINGLE-LANE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~    HAD uRACD OA- 
R~- ~  TER RS DANEL     ERTRIS                          I               
C II ALA    DGERC                                                                                                         hi2
I  I    R5IL AYS    lGeRC                                                /    ;                                            A ,  Ik
_25 ~     ~       ~        /                                                   jr                                                                     (         A
5. Fur2   _   _        1.ED                                    ~----------------
MI-] - k : S :                     . .L.. . . ..
\            JD-ASAOROE                  C            ST            TA                                                                      =c Z       A5E
| ESEPE             II-I-I_                                                                                     R   , 
L-----                           rX       r  reh mee III    .1 AAA-I-II  '- - --C A                                                                                         --            -         r
t~~~~~~~~~I                            .     PM  .0 b0.|;=
RUEDESgg?| *ME  AAI I-A  I-IS II                                                                                                                                                               TAXrv
t   t |                              3p-                          1   t /        ffi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al   I!  AD-IIIMEI  M.A                                      DI



