CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1085 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Tourah Cement Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1085 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Tourah Cement Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1975, between the ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development (hereinafter called the Arab Fund) to assist in the financing
of the foreign exchange cost of the Project;
(C)   The Project will be carried out by Societe Egyptienne de Ciment
Portland Tourah (hereinafter called the Company) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Company
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(D)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Company;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974,, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Company" means Socitg Egyptienne de Ciment Portland Tourah,
a public seftor company established by the Decree dated July 7, 1927 and
published on July 7, 1927 in the Egyptian Official Gaz.ette No. 58;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the
Company of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan lent to the Company under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Completion Date" means the date on which the manufacturing
facilities included in the Project have been tested in accordance with sound
engineering practices and have proven to be acceptable and have, during a period
of 90 consecutive days, achieved a total production equivalent to ninety per cent
of the productive capacity of such facilities, namely 594,000 metric tons of clinker
equivalent to 630,000 metric tons of normal cement annually;
(f)   "Egyptian Pounds" or the Sign "fE" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and
(g)   "productive capacity" means the annual production of 660,000 metric
tons of clinker equivalent to 700,000 metric tons of normal cement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan..


﻿5
(b)   On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreem-nt.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board of the Company is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Company to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the


﻿6
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable the Company to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to the Company
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Company, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall
include the following:
(i)        the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by the
Company shall be the equivalent (determined as of tthe date,
or the respective dates of, repayment) of the value of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account
expressed in terms of United States dollars at the time of
withdrawal;
(ii)       the Subsidiary Loan will be repaid by the Company in twenty
equal installments over fifteen years (including five years of
grace); and
(iii)      the Borrower shall charge the Company interest and a Ministry
of Finance charge which when added together shall be not less
than ten per cent (10%) per annum on the outstanding balance
of the Subsidiary Loan.
(c)   Without limiting the generality of sub-Section (a) above, the Borrower
shall make available to the Company, promptly as shall be required for the carrying
out of the Project, as a contribution to its equity, an amount of twelve million
one hundred thousand Egyptian Pounds (LE12,100,000).
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken all measures
necessary to ensure an adequate and timely supply, to the Company, of fuel and


﻿7
electricity as shall be required for the efficient operations of the Company's facilities
at Tourah.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to ensure
the availability to the Company of the raw materials required for the Company's
operations. To that end the Borrower shall continue to grant to the Company
the exclusive right to use the clay and limestone quarries at Tourah for a period
of at least thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to ensure the timely supply and installation of the
equipment and machinery provided under the Project, the Borrower shall, promptly
as needed, issue, or cause to be issued, permits necessary to enable the Company
to arrange for the transportation of said equipment and machinery on vessels other
than those designated by the Borrower's maritime authorities.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, speciai security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.


﻿8
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. In addition to the funds required to be provided by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide
the Company, or cause the Company to be provided, with sufficient funds, on
terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and of the
Project Agreement, as shall be necessary to enable the Company to complete the
construction of its lime plant and raw material transportation facilities at Tourah.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes that: (i) it will not make any
withdrawal (other than mandatory withdrawals under the Provisions of Law No. 60
of the Year 1971 concerning Public Organizations and Public Sector Companies)
of funds from the Company if such withdrawals will prevent the Company from
attaining, at the end of the financial quarter following the Completion Date, or
such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, and maintaining thereafter,
a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at least 1.5:1 both as calculated
in accordance with the definitions set forth in Section 4.03(b) of the Project
Agreement; and (ii) it shall, in any event, promptly provide the Company with
any funds, in addition to those referred to in Sections 3.01 and 4.02 of this
Agreement, which may be- needed to enable the Company to attain and, thereafter,
maintain said ratio.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall exercise, or cause to be exercised, any
power to establish or control the ex-factory prices at which the Company's
production may be sold in such manner as (i) not to prevent the Company, on
the assumption of production at a rate of not less than 90% of capacity under
conditions of efficient operation, from earning in each fiscal year a reasonable
return on its investment; and (ii) to ensure, on the same assumption of production,
that the Company's net revenues in any fiscal year shall at least be equal to 1.5
times the debt service in each such year on all debt.
(b)   For the purpose of sub-Section (a)(ii) of this Section, the provisions
of Section 4.04(d)(iv), (v) and (vi) of the Project Agreement shall apply.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) by March 31, 1975 or such later date
as shall be agreed with the Bank, agree with the Bank on the terms of reference
for a comprehensive study of production, distribution and marketing facilities in


﻿9
the cement sector; (ii) cause said study to be completed by June 30, 1976 or
such later date as shall be agreed with the Bank; (iii) prepare, on the basis of
said study and in consultation with the Bank, an investment program for
production, distribution and marketing facilities in the cement sector; and (iv)
consult with the Bank prior to establishing or permitting to be established, new
cement production facilities if, as a result of such establishment, the cement
production capacity shall exceed the levels contemplated in the investment program
referred to in (iii) above.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall not, without prior consultation with the
Bank, take, or permit to be taken, any action for the merger or consolidation
of the Company with another entity.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Decree dated July 7, 1927 establishing the Company, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to, in
the judgment of the Bank, materially and adversely affect the ability of the
Company to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)   (i)   Subject to paragraph (ii) of this sub-Section:
(A)   the right of the Company to withdraw the proceeds of
the Loan made to the Company by the Arab Fund for
the financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)   such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)        Paragraph (i) of this sub-Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination, or prematuring
is not caused by failure of the Company to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement, and


﻿10
(B)   adequate funds for the Project are available from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
the Company under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Company shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of the Company under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Company; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (a) and (b)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Company have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Company, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   The Company shall have entered into a loan agreement with the Arab
Fund for the provision to the Company of an amount of six million Kuwaiti Dinars
(KD6,000,000) to meet the foreign exchange cost of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional .matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:


﻿11
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Company, and is legally binding upon
the Company in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the
Company, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Company
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date June 10, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Government Agency for Arab and
International Economic Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Government Agency for Arab and
International Economic Cooperation
Abbasiah Square
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
Government Agency for Arab and
International Economic Cooperation
Abbasiah Square
Cairo


﻿12
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s / Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Machinery, Equip-            32,470,000           100% of foreign
ment, spare parts                                 expenditures and
and affiliated ser-                               100% of local ex-
vices for Parts A,                                penditures for
B, C, D and G of                                  ex-factory costs
the Project                                       of locally manu-
factured items*
(2)   Consultants' serv-              100,000           100% of foreign
ices                                              expenditures
(3)  Interest and other             5,000,000          Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
September 14, 1977
(4)   Unallocated                   2,430,000
TOTAL        40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the terr ta!, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿14
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
expenditures incurred after December 1, 1974.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the expansion of the cement production and quarry
facilities of the Tourah Cement Company at Tourah to increase productive capacity
by 700,000 metric tons of normal cement per year (TPY). It consists of the
following parts:
A.    Design, construction and commissioning of a cement production plant,
including the acquisition and installation of raw material handling
equipment, raw material grinding plant, raw meal homogenization and
storage plant, kiln plant, clinker grinding plant, gypsum grinding plant
and cement transport and storage facilities, with a productive capacity
of 660,000 TPY of clinker to be converted into cement of various
types equivalent to 700,000 TPY of normal cement.
B.    Modification of existing raw material handling and clinker grinding
facilities including installation of new cement mills.
C.    Acquisition and installation of machinery and equipment for limestone
and clay quarries and a limestone crushing plant.
D.    Acquisition and installation of bag-making units with pneumatic
dispatch facilities.
E.    Design, construction and commissioning of a new 30 MVA electric
sub-station, including the acquisition and installation of required
equipment.
F.    Expansion and modernization of existing electrical and mechanical
workshops including acquisition and installation of various machines,
and of the existing control station; the expansion and modernization
of water supply facilities; the expansion and modernization of existing
pollution control devices including acquisition and installation of
electrostatic filters.
G.    Training and pre-operating and start-up and testing expenses required
for the Company to manage and operate the facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1977.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                   (expressed in dollars)*
March 15, 1980                                               15,000
September 15, 1980                                          740,000
March 15, 1981                                              770,000
September 15, 1981                                          800,000
March 15, 1982                                              835,000
September 15, 1982                                          870,000
March 15, 1983                                              900,000
September 15, 1983                                          940,000
March 15, 1984                                              975,000
September 15, 1984                                        1,015,000
March 15, 1985                                            1,055,000
September 15, 1985                                        10,000
March 15, 1986                                            1,140,0
September 15, 1986                                        1,185,000
March 15, 1987                                            1,235,000
September 15, 1987                                        1,285,00
March 15, 1988                                            1,335,000
September 15, 1988                                        1,390,000
March 15, 1989                                            1,445,000
September 15, 1989                                        1,505,000
March 15, 1990                                            1,565,000
September 15, 1990                                        1,625,000
March 15, 1991                                            1,0,000
September 15, 1991                                        1,76000
March 15, 1992                                            1,830,000
September 15, 1992                                        1,900,000
March 15, 1993                                            1,975,000
September 15, 1993                                        2,055,000
March 15, 1994                                            2,140,000
September 15, 1994                                        2,225,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.
740,00


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                              2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 3-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                           5-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                              7%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                    8%


