CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1085 EGT
Project Agreement
(Tourah Cement Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE EGYPTIENNE DE CIMENT PORTLAND TOURAH
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1085 EGT
Project Agreement
(Tourah Cement Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SOCIETE EGYPTIENNE DE CIMENT PORTLAND TOURAH
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SOCIETE EGYPTIENNE DE CIMENT PORTLAND TOURAH (hereinafter
called the Company).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Arab
Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Company agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Company, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to the Company on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Company, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Company shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall


﻿4
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Company in the evaluation of bids for
the Project, the Company shall employ, prior to the opening of said bids,
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Company undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Company to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Company shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Company shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Company: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Company shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the
Company and any relevant records and documents.


﻿5
Section 2.06. The Company shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Company
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Company shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   The Company shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes -or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Company
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Company shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
the execution and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard to
the safeguarding of the environment. To that end the Company shall install, and
thereafter maintain at all times, adequate pollution control facilities satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Company
Section 3.01. The Company shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on the operations of
the facilities provided under the Project and its other operations in accordance
with appropriate financial, engineering and industrial practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate and
competent staff.
Section 3.02. The Company shall:
(a)   at all times take all steps which are necessary to maintain its existence
and its right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all interests
in land and other properties and all rights, powers, and privileges which are necessary
or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business;
(b)   at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices; and


﻿6
(c)   not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking.
Section 3.03. The Company shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Company shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Company shall: (i) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than sixty days after the end of each fiscal quarter,
its statements of income and expenses and related statements for each such quarter;
(ii) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Company and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Company shall take all such action within its power
as shall be necessary to attain at the end of the financial quarter following the
Completion Date, and maintain thereafter, a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of at least 1.5:1.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)          "Current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable due within
twelve months less the reserve for bad debts, inventories
convertible to saleable goods within twelve months, and all other
assets which could, in the ordinary course of business, be
converted within twelve months into cash.


﻿7
(ii)       "Current liabilities" includes accounts payable within twelve
months, customer advances, income taxes, dividends, bonuses,
loan maturities, interest and all other liabilities which would be
due and payable or could be called for payment, within twelve
months.
(iii)      Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing rate of exchange as published by the Central Bank
of Egypt.
Section 4.04. (a" The Company shall not, without the prior concurrence
of the Bank, undertake, prior to the Completion Date, any capital investment (other
than the Project), in any one fiscal year, exceeding three million Egyptian Pounds
(fE3,000,000).
(b)   The Company shall not incur, without the prior concurrence of the
Bank, any debt if, or if as a result of such incurrence, the Company's debt/equity
ratio would exceed 50:50.
(c)   The Company shall take all such action within its powers to ensure
that, after the Complction Date, its net revenues in any one fiscal year shall not
be less than 1.5 times the debt service, in each such year of all of its debt then
outstanding.
(d)   For the purposes of sub-Sections (b) and (c) above:
(i)        "Debt" means any debt incurred by the Company maturing more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)       Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract
or agreement on the date and to the extent it is drawn down
pursuant to such loan or agreement; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii)      "Equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired capital, surplus,
contributions by the Borrower and free reserves of the Company
not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
'aI


﻿8
(iv)       The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses including taxes and
other levies, if any, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt.
(v)        The term   "debt service" means the aggregate amount of
amortization, interest and other charges on debt.
(vi)       Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing rate of exchange as published by the Central Bank
of Egypt.
Section 4.05. The Company shall, prior to the Completion Date or such
later date as shall be agreed with the Bank, pay all bank overdrafts then outstanding.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
the Company thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify the Company of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Company:
Soci6te Egyptienne de Ciment
Portland Tourah
17 Kasr El-Nil Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
CIMENT TOURAH
Cairo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Company may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of


﻿10
the Company or such other person or persons as the Chairman of the Board shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The Company shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the Company, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Company pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE EGYPTIENNE DE CIMENT
PORTLAND TOURAH
By /s / Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    All the cement equipment and machinery and spare parts to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured under one contract which shall
be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    The contract referred to in paragraph I above shall include, in addition to
the above-mentioned equipment, machinery and spare parts, detailed engineering,
supervision of erection, installation, start-up and testing and provisions for technical
assistance to, and the training of staff of, the Company. With respect to said
contract:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Company shall furnish to the Bank for
its comments, the text of the invitation to bid, and the specifications,
the post-bidding qualification criteria, and other bidding documents,
and shall make such modifications in the said documents as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received but before bid evaluation, bidders shall
be required to qualify in accordance with criteria agreed between the
Company and the Bank. The list of qualified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any bidder on qualifications grounds, shall be furnished by the
Company to the Bank for its comments before the bidders are notified.
The Company shall make such additions to or deletions from the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)   After bids of qualified bidders have been evaluated, the Company shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract,
together with the reasons for the intended award, and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by
the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on the
evaluation and comparison of the qualified bids. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the


﻿12
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Company and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of the contract.
3.    The Company shall adopt a two-stage bidding procedure. The first stage shall
consist of the presentation by bidders of proposals in two separate, sealed envelopes,
one containing the technical proposal and the information required for post-bidding
qualification, and the other containing the bid price. The Company shall open
the envelopes containing the technical proposals and post-bidding qualification
information at a set date and may thereafter request all qualified bidders to make
appropriate modifications and changes in the technical proposals and to submit
new separate, sealed envelopes containing changes in, and modifications to, their
original technical proposals and, if desired, supplemental prices to reflect the
technical modifications and changes. The second stage shall consist of the opening,
at a second set date, of the envelopes containing the original prices and the
supplemental prices. Formal bid evaluation shall be conducted immediately
therea,cer. The Company shall clearly indicate the two-stage bidding procedure in
the text of the invitations to bid and other bidding documents.
4.    The Company may grant a margin of preference to clearly identifiable and
separable Egyptian sub-supplies included in foreign bids in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All responsive bids shall be compared on the basis of their bid price
determined as follows:
(i)         For equipment or any components of equipment manufactured
outside of Egypt, such price will be the c.i.f. price at the
Egyptian border or port of entry, exclusive of customs duties
and other import taxes; plus the smaller of (A) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay on the importation of such goods,
or (B) 15% of such c.i.f. price, whichever is less, plus, in either
case, transportation and other delivery costs to the Project site
exclusive of any sales or similar taxes.


﻿13
(ii)        For any clearly identifiable and separable Egyptian sub-supplies,
such price will be the ex-factory price plus transportation and
other delivery costs to the Project site, exclusive of any sales
or similar taxes.
(b)   Bidders shall be required to undertake that they will utilize Egyptian
sub-supplies for which the foregoing margin of preference applies to the extent
stated in their bid under the penalty of having their contract price reduced (should
they be awarded the contract) by an amount, if any, equal to the advantage
obtained from such preference should they fail to purchase the Egyptian
sub-supplies quoted in their bid.
5.    For the purposes of paragraph 4 the term     "Egyptian sub-supplies" means
any part or component manufactured in Egypt if the cost of the materials, labor
and services of Egyptian origin used in its manufacture comprises not less than
20% of the ex-factory price of such part or component.
6.    The lowest-evaluated bid in the comparison shall be selected for purposes
of award.
7.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference and
the methods that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.


