                                       Document o f
                                   The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    Report No: 50682 - UY




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                          ON A

                  PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING (LOAN)

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29.9 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                        ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

                                         FOR A

        THIRD BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                            (LOAN 71 13)

                                   September 17,2009




Human Development Sector
Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay and Chile Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective September 17,2009)


               Currency Unit = Peso Uruguay0 (UYU)
                     UYU 1 = US$O.O45
                      U S $ l = UYU22.0

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 -  December 3 1

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
ANEP     National Administration for Public Education - Administracidn Nacional
         de la Educacidn Publica
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
cscc     Critical Socio-Cultural Environment Schools - Escuelas de Context0
         Sociocultural Critic0
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FM       Financial Management
FSL      Fixed-SpreadLoan
FTS      Full Time Schools
GOU      Government of Uruguay
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstructionfor International Development
IFR      Interim (Unaudited) Financial Reports
INE      National Statistical Institute - Znstituto Nacional de Estadistica
ISR      Implementation Status and Results
LAC      Latin America and the Caribbean
         Basic Education Quality Improvement Project - Proyecto de
         Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacidn Primaria
MECAEP   Basic Education Quality Improvement Project - Proyecto de
         Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacidn Primaria
PISA     Programme for International Student Assessment
SEPA     Execution System for Procurement Plans - Sistema de Ejecucidn de
         Planes de Adquisiciones
SERCE    Second Regional Comparative Study on Learning - Segundo Estudio
         Regional Comparativo y Explicativo
SOE      Statement of Expenses
VAT      Value Added Tax


             Vice President:        Pamela Cox
           Country Director:        Pedro Alba
           Country Manager          Evangeline Javier
            Sector Manager:         Chingboon Lee
          Task Team Leader:         Cristian Aedo
                                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


             THIRD BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                 (LOAN 7113)



                                             .CONTENTS


                                                                                     Page
                  .
                 I Introduction                                                            1
                11.   Background and Rationale for Additional Financing                    1
               111.   Proposed Changes                                                 5
               IV.    Consistency with CAS                                             6
                V.    Economic Analysis o f Cost Overrun or Financing Gap              7
               VI.    Expected Outcomes                                                7
              VII.    Benefits and Risks                                               9
             VIII.    Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing      9
          Annex 1. Project Costs and Outcomes                                           10
          Annex 2. Lots o f land to be used for school construction under the Additional
                      Financing and legal status o f tenure                            14




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed without W o r l d Bank authorization.
                                        URUGUAY

    ADDITIONAL FINANCING THIRD BASIC EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT

                                      PROJECT PAPER

                         L A T I N AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                      LCSHE
                           Basic Information (Original Project)
Project ID: PO70937                           Project Name: Third Basic Education Quality
                                              Improvement Project
Team Leader: Mario Cristian Aedo Inostroza    Expected Closing Date: 1213 1/20 12
Environmental category: B                     Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
Partial Assessment                            Joint IFC:
                                              Joint Level:
                         Basic Information (Additional Financing)
Date: July 3 1, 2009                          Team Leader: Mario Cristian Aedo Inostroza
Country Director: Pedro Alba                  Sectors: Primary education (1 00%)
Sector ManagedDirector: Chingboon Lee         Themes: Education for all (1 00%)
Project ID: P 1 11662                         Environmental category: Partial Assessment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Additional Financing Type: Cost Overrun
                                              Joint IFC: N / A
                                              Joint Level:

[XI Loan    [ ] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [   3 Other:




                 Source                            Local                Foreign   Total
Borrower                                             7.50                           7.50
International Bank for Reconstruction and           28.41                  1.49    29.90
Development
Total:                                                 35.91               1.49    37.40




                                             ...
                                             111
Borrower:
Oriental Republic o f Uruguay
Responsible Agency:
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion Primaria (MECAEP)
Plaza Independencia 822 Piso 10
Uruguay
Tel: (598-2) 902-7360
proyecto@mecaep.edu.uy
Administracion Nacional de Educacion Publica
Soriano 1045
Uruguay
Tel: (598-2) 901-3457



                                                                           ~~~~




4nnual       10.00    10.00     5.90      4.00
Zumulative   10.00    20.00    25.90     29.90




Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ Section Appraisal o Project Activities
                                                                       f
The project will continue to trigger Bank policy on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4/01).
No new safeguard policies are triggered by this A F operation.



                                          IV
I. Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
   additional loan in an amount o f US$ 29.9 million to the Oriental Republic o f Uruguay
   for the Third Basic Quality Improvement Project (P070937), including the extension
   o f the project's closing date by 36 months from December 3 1, 2009 to December 3 1,
   2012, to allow for the completion o f the project activities and the achievement o f the
   Project targets.

2. The proposed Additional Financing would address the financing gap arising from the
   increase in project costs associated with a change in the Government o f Uruguay's
   (GoU) strategy on civil works, and the significant escalation o f construction costs in
   the country. The new civil works strategy will ensure that the Project Development
   Objectives (PDO) target o f 47,000 new student places in Full Time Schools (FTSs)
   would be met.

3. No changes are proposed to the design or implementation arrangements o f the
   Project. The Additional Financing would continue to finance ongoing activities
   including: (i)the construction, rehabilitation and equipping o f schools; (ii)the
   procurement o f didactic materials (school equipment, learning materials, and school
   libraries); (iii)teacher training for FTS; and (iv) project management. The GoU
   estimates that i t would require a 36 month-extension to the project's closing date to
   ensure the attainment o f the PDOs.

4. Conditional on the Board's approval o f the Additional Financing o f US$29.9 million,
   the Government o f Uruguay will provide US$7.5 million o f counterpart funds. I t i s
   noted that the total cost o f US$35 million which had originally been envisaged was
   increased to US$37.4 million as a result o f further increases in construction costs and
   appreciation o f the Uruguayan Peso since September 2008.

11. Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of US$29.9
million

5. Proiect design: The original loan (Ln.7113-UR), in the amount o f US$42 million was
   approved by the Board on April 25, 2002 and became effective on September 13,
   2002. The PDO was to increase the equity, quality and efficiency in the provision o f
   preschool and primary education (for the age-cohort 4 to 11) in Uruguay through: (i)
   school-level interventions to raise education quality in schools servicing socio-
   economically disadvantaged students; (ii) enhancement o f the teacher training
                                              the
   system and the introduction o f new teaching and learning instruments in the
   classroom; and (iii) increase in the efficiency o f primary education institutions.
                          an
   The Project i s classified as Category B.

6. Physical and financial implementation performance: The original project design was
   restructured in 2006 at the request o f the GoU. This restructuring supported: (i)
                                                                                    the
   continued expansion o f the FTS model, albeit covering a smaller share o f school

                                            I
     children than had been originally planned (the outcome target was reduced from
     86,000 student places in FTS to 47,000 student places in FTS)'; and (b) the
     introduction o f an alternative intervention to improve the quality o f schools serving
     disadvantaged children who were not served by the FTS model. Accordingly, the
     Project's PDO was revised to reflect these changes. The restructuring redirected
     some o f the resources that were originally planned for expanding the FTS model
     toward benefiting disadvantaged students in regular, non-full time, schools.
     Specifically, the restructuring supported the introduction o f a new policy intervention
     for regular, non-fulltime schools serving disadvantaged students, labeled Escuelas de
     Contexto Sociocultural Critico (CSCC) or "Critical Socio-Cultural Environment
     Schools".

7. Thus the expected outcomes from the restructured Project included a more broad-
   based improvement in primary education quality, focusing on all schools that served
   the most disadvantaged students and, as a result, targeting an improvement in equity
   o f education outcomes. Furthermore, the restructuring sought to gradually
   institutionalize the Project to ensure i t s integration with the regular structure o f
   education administration. Together with the restructuring, the Board also approved a
   24-month extension to the loan's original closing date o f December 31, 2007 to
   December 3 1, 2009. This was needed to address the slowdown in project execution
   following budget cuts that resulted from the negative impact o f the 2002 economic
   crisis and i t s aftermath on Uruguay.

8. To date, 96.8 percent (US$40.63 million) o f the loan has been disbursed. During
   2008, the Project's implementing unit fully executed i t s allocated annual budget o f
   approximately US$I 1.7 million. It also executed a supplemental transfer o f US$3.1
   million, allocated by the Ministry o f Finance in September 2008, to comply with civil
   works commitments. This was a clear signal o f ownership o f the Project by the
   National Public Education Agency (Administracidn Nacional de la Educacidn
   Publica - ANEP).

9. A total o f 128 FTS have been created through the Project amounting to 34,950 new
   student places. Additionally, approximately 80,000 students have been served in 226
   schools, operating in critical socio-cultural contexts. The Project i s on track to
   achieve the other two outcome indicators: (i)   reducin repetition rates o f students
                                                                         B
   from more disadvantaged backgrounds for 1'` and 2" grades; and (iij improving
   academic achievement results o f students from more disadvantaged backgrounds in
   language and mathematics in 6`h grade.

10. The GoU has consistently complied with the environmental safeguards in the Project.

1 1. Rationale for Additional Financing and Project Extension: The proposed Additional
     Financing supports the activities under the first component- Expansion o the Full
                                                                             f

'As explained later in paragraph 16 o f this Project Paper, this drop in number o f students in FTS i s not as
substantial as would appear because o f the overestimation o f the baseline in the 2002 PAD, which this
Additional Financing proposes to amend.

                                                      2
        Time School Model. The combination o f costlier investments and price escalation
        explained below has put this project in one o f the situations in which Additional
        Financing may be provided b y the Bank, namely, to enable the completion o f the
        original project activities in the event o f an unanticipated financing gap or a cost
        overrun. The proposed additional loan i s intended to meet the project target defined
        at the time o f project restructuring o f achieving 47,000 students benefitting from the
        FTS model.

    12. During 2006, a detailed analysis o f approximately 400 schools was conducted to
        assess their physical conditions and the possibility to be upgraded to the FTS model.
        The findings o f the assessment suggested that more classrooms needed to be
        constructed, rather than rehabilitated, than was originally envisioned in the 2002
        appraisal o f the Project. Based on the assessment, a new action plan for civil works
        was approved by the Administracidn Nacional de la Educacidn Ptiblica (National
        Administration for Public Education - ANEP) that significantly changed the ratio o f
        new construction to rehabilitation: the initial ratio o f 30 to 70 was modified to 65 to
        35, thus adversely impacting the total cost o f civil works as well as the time needed to
        complete the envisaged task. As noted in Table 1 below, it i s estimated that
        construction o f a classroom in a new school i s on average about three times more
        costly than rehabilitating a classroom and that constructing a classroom in an existing
        school costs twice as much as rehabilitating a classroom.

    13. In addition, there has been a significant escalation o f construction costs averaging
        about 144 percent in the period 2002-2009 depending on the type o f civil work
        financed by the Loan. More specifically for this Additional Financing, the
        Construction Cost Index published by the National Statistical Institute (Znstituto
        Nacional de Estadktica -1.N.E.) reported an increase in cost in the period after the
        2006 restructuring o f about 27 percent (period August 2006 to June 2009).

                          Table 1: Construction Cost (in local currencv)'
                                                                                         Increase
    Type o f civil work                           Costs in PAD       Current Cost'        in oh

    Classroom construction in new school             $30.942            $86.957              181.0

I   Classroom construction in
    school3                        existing   1      $30,942     1      $60,870      I       96.7    I


    14. The increase in cost resulting from the ratio change, together with the overall higher
        cost o f civil works, negatively impacted the GoU's ability to reach the target of
        creating 47,000 new student places in FTS. I t i s expected that by December 3 1, 2009,
        the loan will be fully disbursed but only reaching about 37,600 student places in FTS
        (80 percent o f the target set at the time o f the 2006 project restructuring).



                                                      3
15. In order to reach the 47,000 student places i t i s estimated that an additional
    investment o f US$37.4 million i s needed. The G o U estimates that civil works could
    be completed in 30 months in the absence o f unanticipated delays beyond the GoU's
    control. Therefore, the GoU i s asking for an extension o f the Project's closing date
    from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2012. The Project would be 10 years in
    implementation b y closing date if the 36-month extension were to be approved.

16. An amendment to the Project baseline indicator for the number o f student places in
    the FTS `at Project start i s included. The P A D stated as the baseline 35,000 student
    places in FTS. However, information subsequently provided b y the ANEP indicated
    that b y the beginning o f 2002 there were only 21,510 student places in FTS.
    Together with the ANEP, the team identified that the P A D wrongly included non-
    FTS student places in the baseline. Table 2 below summarizes the proposed changes
    to the baseline and outcome variables (Table 1 in Annex 1, presents the original,
    restructured, and proposed additional financing end o f project outcomes for the three
    PDOs):


                       Indicator                                       Value
Project baseline in original P A D                          35,000 student places in FTS
Proiect baseline to be corrected in AF                     21.510 student Dlaces in F T S

Project outcome target in original P A D                   86,000 student places in FTS

Project outcome target after 2006 restructuring            47,000 student places in FTS

Current predicted achievement o f outcome target at
                                                           37,600 student places in FTS
project closing (without AF)
Expected achievement o f outcome target w i t h AF     I   47,000 student places in F T S

N e t increase in student places over corrected
                                                           25,490 student places in F T S
baseline w i t h AF

17. The Project has made substantial progress in the implementation o f the Project's
    second component Institutional Strengthening. This component will achieve all o f i t s
    targets b y December 2009. New pre-service teacher training curriculum has been
    developed and education personnel from FTS and Escuelas de Context0 Sociocultural
    Critic0 (Critical Socio-Cultural Environment Schools - CSCC) schools have been
    trained exceeding the Project's target; the target for education improvement projects
    and provision o f technical assistance on a demand basis has been exceeded; the
    strengthening o f the Borrower's education monitoring and evaluation system has been
    achieved through: (i) establishment o f a research and evaluation division within
                           the
    ANEP (Divisidn de Investigacidn, Evaluacidn, y Estadistica); (ii) the periodic
    application o f national learning evaluations o f all students in sixth grade and the
    participation o f the country in international evaluations (PISA 2003, PISA 2006,
    SERCE); and (iii)the implementation o f a school-based management information

                                            4
   system which gather data on teachers, students, and infrastructure. Finally, since
   2006, CSCC schools (serving approximately 80,000 students) have benefited from the
   Project through in-service teacher training and the provision o f textbooks, reading
   books, learning materials, and equipment. By 2008, the repetition rate in first grade
   in CSCC schools had decreased to 18.8 percent from a rate o f 24.4 percent in 2006.
   The G o U has initiated the steps to create a specific unit within the Consejo de
   Educacion Znicial y Primaria, the institutional organization responsible for these
   schools, thus providing an institutional framework for the CSCC schools.

111. Proposed Changes

18. Activities proposed under Additional Financing: In order to reach the 47,000 student
    places it i s estimated that an additional total investment o f US$37.4 million i s needed.
    This Additional Financing would cover the following activities (resulting costs for the
    original, restructured, and proposed additional financing costs can be seen in Table 2,
    Annex 1):

       a. Construction, rehabilitation and equipment costs for the schools (US$3 3.6
          million; Bank financing US$27.7);
       b. Procurement o f didactic materials (US$O.8 million; Bank financing US$O.8
          million);
       c. Teacher training for FTS (US$1.4 million; Bank financing US$0.9);and
       d. Project management costs (US$1.6 million; Bank financing US$0.4 million).

19. Implementation arrangements for the Additional Financing The implementation
    arrangements under the Additional Financing would be the same as those for the
    ongoing Project. The ANEP would remain the key responsible agency, while the
    Project Implementation Unit would continue to be entrusted with the implementation
    arrangements and the project fiduciary-related aspects as detailed in the Project's
    Operational Manual. The Operational Manual has been updated to reflect the
    changes previously approved under the Project's 2006 restructuring and the changes
    introduced by the proposed Additional Financing.

20. Financial management (FM) and procurement system arrangements under the
    proposed Additional Financing will remain the same as for the ongoing Third Basic
    Quality Improvement Project.

2 1. The Project's FM performance, as evidenced b y the Bank's supervision, quality and
     timeliness o f the audit reports, indicates that the financial management system
     operates well and needs only moderate supervision. Adequate management actions
     have also been taken to enhance the internal control framework o f the Project. Loan
     funds will continue to be disbursed to a Designated Account based on SOEs, and the
     Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will prepare and submit to the Bank semiannual
     financial reports (IFRs) no later than 45 days after the end o f each reporting semester.




                                              5
22. An assessment o f procurement arrangements for the original Project was updated by a
    Bank Procurement Specialist in July 2009. Based on said review, the ongoing
    procurement implementation experience i s considered adequate. The current PCU
    procurement officer has experience with World Bank procedures and has acquired the
    necessary capacity to carry out all procurement procedures.

   Procurement for the proposed Additional Financing will be carried out in accordance
   with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines ("Guidelines: Procurement under
   IBRD Loans and I D A Credits," May 2004, revised October 2006), Consultant
   Guidelines ("Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
   Borrowers," May 2004, revised October 2006), and the provisions stipulated in the
   Loan Agreement.

23. The following Prior Review thresholds w i l l apply to the Additional Financing:

       a. Contracts estimated to cost above US$ 12 million for works and US$ 1.8
          million for goods and non-consulting services, and all direct contracting will
          be subject to prior Bank review.
       b. Consultancy services to be provided by f i r m s estimated to cost above US$
          700,000 per contract, consultancy services to be provided by individuals
          estimated to cost above $ 240,000 and all single source selection o f
          consultants w i l l be subject to prior review by the Bank,
       c. The first two contracts procured by the agency under each selection method
          for consultancy services w i l l be subject to prior review regardless o f amount.

24. The Procurement Plan w i l l be available to the public through the SEPA system. The
    procurement plan w i l l be updated by the Project's implementing unit every three
    months or as required to reflect actual project implementation needs.

25. Safeguards: Since a l l the activities to be funded with the Additional Financing are
    part o f the Project's original design, the safeguards applied would remain unchanged.
    Thus, the project w i l l remain Category Byand i t will continue to trigger Bank policy
    on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.0 1). The Additional Financing will not
    trigger new safeguard policies.

IV. Consistency with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)

26. The GoU remains committed to achieving the PDOs as demonstrated by i t s
    willingness to provide supplemental budgetary allocation in September 2008. The
    objectives o f improving equity, quality and efficiency in the education system remain
    a core goal o f the Government's education strategy as reflected in the 2005 CAS and
    the 2008 CAS Progress Report. Likewise, the strategy o f expanding FTS to
    disadvantaged children remains a key policy o f the GoU. The recent findings in
    student academic achievement as measured by 6`h grade standardized tests and the
    reduction in repetition rates at the primary level indicate that the GoU's education
    strategy i s having positive results.


                                            6



                                                                                  "   .        ..   I   .   .   *
V. Appraisal o f Economic Analysis of Cost Overrun o r Financing Gap

27. Because o f the changes in Project costs and the number o f beneficiaries, the
    Economic Analysis o f the Project was updated. The Economic Analysis in the
    Project Appraisal Document (PAD) covered only the Full Time School component
    and included costs and benefits for the period 2002 - 2035 (34 years). There were
    two major benefits identified in the PAD. First, through the FTS model, the students
    will benefit from improvements in the quality o f their education. In the long term,
    this should translate into pecuniary benefits in the form o f higher labor market
    earnings. This w i l l come both from the increase in human capital per year o f
    schooling and also from higher educational attainment and fewer years o f study per
    grade attained. While the project has been in place for a few years, it i s s t i l l early to
    evaluate the impact o f the FTS in respect o f labor market outcomes. There is,
    however some medium term evidence that FTS enrollment results in lower grade
    repetition (Morduchowicz, 2008, and Vermeersch, 2008)2 and this i s consistent with
    higher quality and greater efficiency. The second benefit o f the FTS model i s the
    impact on the labor force participation o f the children's primary domestic care givers.
    Care-givers can use the additional time that students spend in school as paid
    employees.

28. The costs included civil works and goods including equipment, teaching material,
    teacher training, maintenance costs (assumed to be 2 percent o f the civil works), and
    additional salaries (to be borne by the borrowers). Based on these identified benefits
    and costs the PAD reported an economic rate o f return (ERR) o f 37 percent.

29. For the proposed Additional Financing, the original analysis o f the PAD was adjusted
    to reflect the smaller number o f beneficiaries o f the FTS model, as considered in the
    2006 restructuring, and the urban characteristics o f these beneficiaries. In the
    scenario without the Additional Financing, where only 80 percent o f the target o f
    47,000 student places in FTS i s achieved (this means 37,600 student places in FTS),
    the ERR was estimated to be 14 percent. Incorporating the Additional Financing
    from 2009 to 2012, which allows to achieve the target o f 47,000 student places in
    FTS, the ERR i s estimated to be 15 percent.

30. Because this rate i s above the discount rate for Uruguay, 10 percent, the proposed
    Additional Financing remains economically justified.

VI. Expected Outcomes

3 1. Project Development Objective. The proposed Additional Financing would enable the
     GoU to achieve the objective o f creating 47,000 student places in FTSs. As
     demonstrated in Table 2, this i s equivalent to additional 25,490 student places in FTS
     as compared to the corrected 2002 baseline.

 A. Morduchowicz (2008) "Costo-efectividad de modelos de educacion primaria de Uruguay", World
Bank, mimeo. C. Vermeersch (2008) "Full time schools and repetition rates", World Bank, mimeo.

                                               7
32. Environmental safeguards. The civil works included in the Additional Financing are
    similar to the works already completed in the ongoing Project. Therefore, the
    environmental impacts are not expected to be significant, or irreversible. For the
    proposed Additional Financing, the E M P was updated to ensure mitigation o f all
    potential risks. The E M P includes inputs identified in an updated environmental
    consultation process conducted in July 2009. To facilitate EMP development, specific
    Environmental Guidelines were updated during preparation o f the Additional
    Financing. The Additional Financing-to the Third Basic Quality Improvement Project
    will support the implementation o f the EMP.

33. Social Safeguards: Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement. The Borrower
    issued a self-standing Note on Compliance with Social and Environmental
    Safeguards. The Borrower reviewed the land tenure status o f the 33 lots o f land to be
    used for construction and/or rehabilitation o f school buildings under the Additional
    Financing. The Uruguayan Legislation on land acquisition and involuntary
    resettlement was compared with the Bank O.P. 4.12 and found to be consistent. The
    Bank appraised this information and found the proposed procedures to be in
    compliance with Bank Policies. For the Additional Financing, no land acquisition or
    resettlement i s foreseen. Land eligibility criteria includes:

   (a) That the parcel of land belongs to the ANEP. If the land belongs to another entity
       o f the government, it must be transferred to ANEP to be eligible for construction
       under the proposed Additional Financing (as a donation, or a comodato for school
       construction purposes);
   (b) That the parcel i s clear, that is, nobody i s living there and no economic activity i s
       being performed. If any o f the above conditions are not met, the site will not be
       acceptable for school construction under the proposed Additional Financing; and
   (c) That the parcel does not pose any environmental risk.

34. As indicated in Annex 2, at the moment, 27 lots are property o f ANEP, and three
    have been transferred to ANEP as comodato for 30 years. The other three are in the
    process o f property legalization under ANEP. The legalization process i s advanced;
    however, this process needs to be completed prior to beginning construction on these
   sites.

35. Sustainabilitv. The ongoing project incorporates several key activities that are
    designed to ensure sustainability after the end o f the Project's activities. Key
    objectives include strengthening ANEP's institutional capacity to support and to
    improve the quality o f primary education in all schools that serve the most
    disadvantaged students, improving equity o f education outcomes, and ensuring the
    Project's integration into the regular structure o f education administration.




                                             8
VII. Benefits and Risks

36. The expected benefits o f the activities to be implemented under the Additional
    Financing are the same as recorded in the original PAD. Successful implementation
    o f the proposed activities would contribute to ensure that more students are able to
    benefit from the FTS model through improvement in the quality o f their education.

37. The main risks envisioned would be that the civil works would take longer than
    expected. This risk i s moderate. To mitigate this risk, the Government has requested
    36 months to complete the activities included in this AF (this time period includes a
    safety margin o f 6 months). Second, there i s a political risk given that the Additional
    Financing will be implemented under a new administration. This risk i s rated as
    moderate as the presidential candidates for the 2009 election have publicly supported
    the FTS model. To further mitigate this risk, the Team will discuss the FTS model
    with the presidential candidates.

38. The Additional Financing poses no additional risks, other than those which were
    identified for the Ongoing Project and for which mitigation measures have been
    successfully taken during the course o f i t s implementation. The Overall Procurement
    and Financial Management Risks are assessed as Moderate.

VIII. Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing

39. The Oriental Republic o f Uruguay selected a variable-spread loan (VSL) in U.S.
    Dollars (maturity o f 22.5 years, including a grace period o f 13 years) with payment
    dates o f February 15 and August 15 o f each year, with all conversions. The selection
    o f financial terms reflects the Republic's preference for contracting loans which
    permit the matching o f i t s asset and liability management objectives. The G o U and
    the World Bank agreed to retroactive financing in an amount not to exceed US$ 3.0
    million for expenditures made on or after September 30, 2009, but no more than one
    year from signing.




                                             9
c,
v)


Y
2
3
E
8
c

8
I
a
a
c)


4
              x
             -.
              a
             c,
             L:
             2
             E
             5




i
c
.-
 a
 E
4
T
E
LL




     a 2
     u   c
     E   O
     (do
                                   able 2. Project Costs
   Original        Original Loan     Restructured          Proposed      Resulting Costs
    Loan                                Loan              Additional     by Component
                     Costs by
                                                        Financing (AF)
                    Component         Cost by                            (Restructured
                                     Component                              Loan +
                                                                         Proposed AF)
Component 1:           34.32             34.51              29.41             63.92
Expansion of
full-time school
(FTS) model
1.1                    26.72             25.56              27.70             53.26
Construction,
Renovation,
Rehabilitation
and Equipment
for FTS
1.2 Acquisition        3.80                                                   3 .OO
o f Teaching
Aids,
Educational
Technology, and
School Libraries
 1.3 In-service        2.59              5.69                0.91             6.60
Training for
Teachers,
Directors and
Inspectors of
FTS, and
educational
technology
 1.4
Strengthening
                       1.21              0.80       1        0.00             0.80

the partnership
between schools
and parents
1.5 Teacher            0.00              0.26                0.00             0.26
Compensation
Component 2:           7.06              7.07       I        0.42             7.49
Institutional
Strengthening
2.1 Design of          2.60              0.82                0.00             0.82
teacher training
reform
2.2
Development
                       2.88              2.28       I        0.00             2.28

and
Implementation
o f PMEs.                                                                -
2.3 Monitoring         1.06              1.53                0.00             1.53

                                         12
o f Educational
Programs and
School Statistics                          I
System
2.4 Project         0.52    2.44    0.42       2.86
Administration
Unallocated
Front-end Fees
        TOTAL       42.00   42.00




                            13
    ANNEX 2: List of lots of land to be used for school construction under the
    Additional Financing and legal status o f tenure

    Departament School       Community      Registration    Legal Status o f Land
                Number                      Number
1   Artigas     40           Artigas        3.952 y 5.592   Property o f ANEP
2   Canelones   213          Jardines    de 4.374           Property o f ANEP
                             Pando




                                                            ears. Mortgage Bank




                                        14
                      ---T---
                      Nuevo Colon      406.13 1       Comodato while
            number                                    transfer i s finalized by



+
Rivera
                      Cuiiapiru
                                                      Ministry o f Housing,
                                                      Land Administration
                                                      and Environment.
                                                      Donation Agreement
                                                      in process by
                                                      CODICEN.
                      Paysandu Sur                     Donation Agreement
            number


            number
                      3
                      Pinamar Norte
                                                      in process by
                                                      CODICEN.
                                                      Donation Agreement
                                                      in process by
                                                                                  I

Maldonado   Without   Cerro Pelado     18.6 15
                                       others
                                                      CODICEN.
                                                  and Property o f ANEP.          I
                                                                                  I




                                  1s
