Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20326 AM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR14.9 MILLION
(US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ARMENIA
FOR A
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
April 18, 2000
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 4/18/2000)
Currency Unit = Dram
D 1.00= US$ 0.0019
US$ 1.00 = D 526
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAF        All Armenia Fund                                MIS       Management Information System
ASIF       Armenian Social Investment Fund                 MIU       Microproject Implementation Unit
ASIF PIU    ASIF Project Implementation Unit               MP        Microproject(s)
cAS        Country Assistance Strategy                     NCB       National Competitive Bidding
CER        Center for Education Refonns                    NGO       Non-Governmental Organization(s)
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review           OM        Operational Manual
DFID       Department for Intemational Development         PHRD      Policy & Human Resources Development Fund
(United Kingdom)
ESW        Economic and Sector Work                        PIU       Project Implementation Unit
FMS        Financial Management System                     PMR       Project Management Report
FSU        Former Soviet Union                             PPF       Project Preparation Facility
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                          PRINSY   Project Information System
GNP        Gross National Product                          RFP       Request for Proposal
GPN        General Procurement Notice                      SA        Special Account
GOA        Government of Armenia                           SBD       Standard Bidding Documents
IA         Implementing Agency                             SC        Save the Children
ICB        International Competitive Bidding               SDS       State Department of Statistics
IDA        Intemational Development Association            SIF       Social Investment Fund
IMF        International Monetary Fund                     SOE       Statement of Expenditure
IRP        Irrigation Rehabilitation Project               SPN       Special Procurement Notice
IS         International Shopping                          TA        Technical Assistance
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative           UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
LG         Local Govermment                                UNHCR   United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
LCS        Least Cost Selection                            UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
MC         Microproject Committee                          USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WUS       Water Users Association
Vice President:     Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:        Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:       Michal Rutkowski
Task Tean Leader/Task Manager:           Caroline Mascarell



ARMENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      21
5. Social                                                                             23
6. Environment                                                                        23
7. Participatory Approach                                                             24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27
.i.



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         27
2. Other                                                                           28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       30
Annex 2: Project Description                                                          37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      40
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                          41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            49
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    50
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B 1. Procurement Plan
Table B2. Summary of Procurement Activities
Table C. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  62
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               64
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         65
Annex 11: Organizational Chart                                                        67
Annex 12: Project Implementation Schedule                                             70
Annex 13: Microproject Typology and Appraisal Criteria                                72
Annex 14: Poverty Targeting Strategy and Allocation of Funds                          75
Annex 15: Upgrading the Management Information System                                 81
Annex 16: Decentralization Action Plan                                                86
Annex 17: ASIF II Training Program                                                    94
Annex 18: Environmental Mitigation Measures and Review Checklists                     96
MAP(S)
General Map of Armenia
.i.i



ARMENIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: April 18, 2000                               Team Leader: Caroline Mascarell
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor         Sector Manager/Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P057952                                Sector(s): SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): SOCIAL PROTECTION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
El Loan         M Credit        Li Grant        Li Guarantee    Cl Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 14.9 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
FinantiMg P .e:-  Sop                      -                    .     :     .-    FoWn    - Tt---:
GOVERNMENT                                                      1.43            0.00           1.43
IBRD
IDA                                                             19.21           0.79         20.00
COMMUNITIES                                                     2.00            0.00          2.00
MULTIPLE DONORS                                                 2.26            0.92          3.18
OTHER                                                           2.71            0.00          2.71
Total:                                                         27.61            1.71         29.32
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY
Address: Ministry of Finance and Economy
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan, 375010
Armenia
Contact Person: Mr. Levon Barkhudarian, Minister of Finance and Economy
Tel: (374-2) 595-255                Fax: (374-2) 151-069               Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Armenia Social Investment Fund
Address: 31 K. Ulnetsu Str.
Yerevan, 375037
Republic of Armenia
Contact Person: Mr. Ashot Kirakosyan, Executive Director
Tel: (374-2) 151-417              Fax: (374-2) 151-417               Email- asif@armeniasif.am



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
~~~1  R6 
Annual     2.6           3.6         3.8         4.0         4.0         2.0
Cumulative     2.6          6.2         10.0       14.0        18.0         20.0
Project implementation period: 5.5 years
,Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
PDP.M , ZIO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The aim of the proposed Armenia Social Investment Fund 11 Project (ASIF 11) Project is to assist the
Government of Armenia in its continuing endeavor to improve living standards of the lower income groups
among the Armenian population and strengthen institutions at the local level. This will be achieved through
the improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure, short-term employment opportunities,
community outreach, and local capacity building. The ASIF II project will support the Government's
decentralized initiatives through an integrated institutional approach to enhance community participation
and empowerment at the local level. The specific objectives of the project are to:
(i) Improve basic social and economic infrastructure that can result in immediate improvements of the
living conditions of the poorest among the population and short-term employment opportunities.
(ii) Develop partnerships at the local level between the local government authorities and communities
through effective outreach programs to improve planning, coordination, management, and information
dissemination activities.
(iii) Enhance greater stakeholder participation and empowerment at the local level, by supporting the
decentralization of activities which will provide clearer roles, and greater accountability for the local
governments and communities in the design, implementation, sustainability of microprojects, and the
eventual transition to direct contracting of works.
(iv) Promote institution building and social capital formation at the local level focusing on strengthening
local government and communities in decentralized management of basic public services.
(v) Promote private sector development by creating opportunities for the local construction industry,
fostering competitive bidding processes, and by training small-scale contractors.
The ASIF II Project will build upon the work carried out under the ASIF I Project which has generated a
visible development impact in terms of social and economic benefits to the poorest communities of
Anrnenia. The majority of microprojects proposed and carried out in the communities involved small-scale
school rehabilitation, potable water supply and irrigation works. To date, nearly 200 microprojects have
been completed and approximately 470,000 community members in Armenia have benefited from these
projects. At a broader level, the project has given primacy to the active involvement of community
members in decisions which affect the quality of their lives by putting in place a framework for greater
stakeholder participation. It has promoted self-help mechanisms, increased the sense of community
ownership, promoted greater cohesion among members, and has set the foundation for future social
investment fund operations. The ASIF II project will further enhance the impact of its program in Armenia
by forging and strengthening institutions at the local level which can serve as effective vehicles for
individual and community empowerment. While clearly success will not be achieved in every local
community, nevertheless, in those places where local institutions are strengthened in a viable and
sustainable manner, the project will transfer positive experience to other communities and provide support
to the national policy formation on decentralization.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators set out in Annex I reflect monitorable outcomes under the project covering
implementation activities during the microproject cycle and sustainability of activities after microproject
completion. These include quantitative indicators relating to project benefits and qualitative assessments on
demand-driven mechanisms and community participation. The specific areas that will be assessed cover
various activities of the SIF program including: (i) participation of key stakeholders; (ii) cost efficiency of
- 3 -



microprojects; (iii) quality of works (design, construction and workmanship of microprojects); (iv)
operation and maintenance of microprojects; (v) capacity building efforts at the local level benefiting local
governments, implementing agencies, contractors and ASIF staff; (vi) service delivery and management in
the ASIF Office; and (vii) short-tern employment generation at the local level. The performance indicators
will be monitored and tracked under a newly upgraded MIS program. Status of the performance indicators
will be covered in the quarterly status reports and will be assessed during supervision missions and during
the Mid-Term Review.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16988-AM                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/26/97
The proposed project is an integral part of the CAS (1997) which puts human resource development at the
core of the proposed Bank support in Armenia. The proposed ASIF II Project is consistent with the CAS
objective to support the alleviation of poverty through improved coverage and targeting of social services to
the poor. The focus will be on fostering local institutions to empower communities in the service delivery
process. This will be achieved through: (i) enforcing an improved poverty targeting strategy under the
project, to reach the poorest communities more effectively; (ii) supporting sustainable public works
programs designed to provide basic social infrastructure to poor commnunities throughout the country; and
(iii) building the capacity of local governments and communities for more effective social delivery. The
project will also support the CAS objective of restoring growth through the promotion of private sector
development, by creating opportunities for the local construction industry, fostering competitive bidding
processes, and by training small-scale contractors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues in Armenia include:
Social Protection: (i) widespread and severe poverty in Armenia with 55% of the population estimated to
be living in poverty; (ii) extremely high and stagnant unemployment equivalent to 28% of the labor force;
(iii) growing number of ethnic Armenian refugees currently estimated at 33,000 living in temporary
dwellings with some 13,000 refugees living in very poor conditions; (iv) poor targeting of social assistance;
and (v) the threat of the emergence of social exclusion as a result of long-term structural poverty.
Social Sectors: serious under-funding of the social sectors, weak institutional structures and management
capacity contributing to the deterioration of the quality and access to services.
Public Sector: (i) lack of a comprehensive decentralized policy and in particular, the lack of a clear
delineation of roles and rights of city administrations; (ii) institutionally weak local governments as a result
of limnited local capacity and resources for carrying out local government activities, especially at the village
level; and (iii) lack of viable community based institutions for partnerships with local governnents.
Infrastructure: (i) limited public resources and tightening of public expenditures in Armenia which have
contributed to deteriorating social and other infrastructure; and (ii) lack of attention given to financial and
institutional arrangements for operation and maintenance of existing infrastructure.
The current reform strategy of the Armenian Government is to consolidate economic growth, ensure the
social sustainability of the reform process, and preserve Armenia's stock of highly-skilled human capital.
The strategy will help reach the poor more effectively through: (i) improving targeting of social assistance;
(ii) accelerating the development of the private sector to sustain growth and generate employment; (iii)
supporting the social sector reforms; and (iv) promoting community outreach programs.
-4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Enhancing Social Protection: The Armenia Social Investment Fund II (ASIF II) will: (a) continue its
program in Armenia to assist the Government in its ongoing endeavor to improve the living standards of the
lower income groups among the Armenian population; and (b) place increased focus on the strengthening of
an institutional network geared to individual and community empowerment. Specifically, the project will
support the improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure, short-term employment opportunities,
capacity building at the local level, and private sector development. The ASIF II will further enhance the
impact of its program in Armenia by addressing and strengthening institutional, structural and procedural
issues of the ASIF I program regarding targeting, participation, capacity building, quality of works, and
operations and maintenance. In addition, the ASIF II will support greater stakeholder participation and
ownership at the community level within the framework of the Government's decentralization program.
This will require the establishment of effective decentralized planning and management systems, effective
outreach programs and capacity building at the local level. The ASIF II's continued support through its
comprehensive assistance program will be critical for addressing poverty and strengthening social
protection.
Strengthening Local Capacity in the Delivery of Social Services: The ASIF II will complement and
support current reform programs in the social sectors which are being supported under the Bank's strategy
in Armenia. Specifically, the project will support the Government's Education and Management Strategy
and Primary Health Care Finance Strategy. Although the ASIF II is not designed to reform sectors, it will
play an important role to help broaden support for economic and social reforms through: (i) the
rehabilitation of deteriorating infrastructure in schools and health clinics; (ii) provision of badly needed
school heating systems and furniture; (iii) capacity building of local governments and established
community associations (e.g. schools councils) in decentralized planning, management and budgeting
systems; (iv) the promotion of effective participatory mechanisms for community development through the
active engagement and interaction of local governments; and (v) the decentralization of management for
operation and maintenance of facilities rehabilitated. The ASIF II will support the Government's education
reform agenda to provide autonomy to schools established under the May 1999 Law on Education.
Specifically, the project will support the decentralized school govemance arrangements by working closely
with and building the capacity of schools that have registered functioning schools councils and those that
are participating in the school-based management pilot program. The project would also support the
Government's program on health care management and financing of municipal and village level primary
health care centers. Such assistance would be provided depending on the scope and depth of the program,
specific needs and resources required for the projects proposed. The selection of schools and health
microprojects will be carried out in close coordination with the Ministries of Education and Health. The
criteria will be based on need/equity and supporting the Government reform process in education and
health.
-5-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Rehabilitation of Small-Scale   Social Investrnent    24.11     82.2      16.87      84.4
Social and Economic hInfrastructure:    Funds
1. 1. Financing microprojects for the
rehabilitation or upgrading of schools,
health clinics, water supply systems,
sanitation works, irrigation and other
infrastructure included in the
Operational Manual.
1.2 Financing microprojects for the
rehabilitation of school heating
systems.
1.3 Financing of school furniture
(desks, chairs, blackboards, etc.).
1.4 Capacity building and technical
assistance to local contractors and
Implemnenting Agencies.
1.5 Financing of consultant services
for mnicroproject design and
supervision.
2. Local-Level Institutional       Institutional        1.06        3.6       0.00       0.0
Strengthening                      Development
2.1 Capacity building and TA to local
governments.
2.2 Capacity building and TA to
community-based organizations.
3. Institutional Support to the ASIF:    Institutional  4.15       14.2       3.13      15.7
3.1 Capacity building and technical  Development
assistance to ASIF staff.
3.2 Financing of special studies,
assessments, and reviews.
3.3 Financing of vehicles and
equipment.
3.4 Support to general administration
and management of the project.
3.5 Financing of annual financial,
procurement, and technical audits.
Total Project Costs                    29.32      100.0     20.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     29.32      100.0     20.00      100.0
-6 -



The total cost of the project is estimated at US$29.32 million, of which IDA would finance US$20 million.
US$3.18 million would be co-financed by the international donor community (German Government:
US$0.60 million; Norwegian Government: US$0.58 million; Department For International Development
,United Kingdom, (US$2 million), by sponsors to the Matching Fund (US$2.71 million); and additional
funding would be contributed by local communities (US$2 million) through direct contributions to
microproject costs. The remaining US$1.43 million would be counterpart funding by the Government to
finance microprojects, project recurrent costs including (office rent) and taxes on locally procured goods.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The comprehensive programs under the project will support the Government of Armenia in fiuther
consolidating its key public policy and institutional reforns through: (i) establishing effective poverty
targeting mechanisms to reach the poor more effectively; (ii) reversing the deterioration of basic social
services infrastructure; (iii) stimulating short-term employment in poor communities; (iv) supporting the
Government's decentralized program by: (a) building the institutional capacity of local governments and
established community-based associations in the management of basic public services, (b) engaging local
governments and community-based organizations in a more interactive and supportive partnership; and (v)
promoting private sector development relating to the local construction industry.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project will include:
(i) Generation of a visible development impact in terms of social and economic benefits to poor
communities through improved quality and access to social and economic infrastructure.
(ii) Provision of cost-effective use of public funds in community-initiated infrastructure rehabilitation
projects.
(iii) Establishment of a basis of ownership and accountability at the local level, around which maintenance
arrangements can be built.
(iv) Generation of labor-intensive, short-term employment at the local level.
(v) Increased community participation and local institution building with improved ability of community
groups to organize, plan and manage their own activities.
(vi) Creation of opportunities for local contractors.
(vii) Consolidation of the Government's decentralized program through the reinforcement of partnerships at
the local level and the active involvement and engagement of local govemments and communities in the
delivery of social services to the poor.
(viii) Enhancement of the participation of bilateral donors, international and local NGOs, and community
groups.
Target Population:
The ASIF II Project will target: (a) the poorest communities of Armenia in both rural and urban areas; (b)
poor primary and secondary school children in urban and rural areas; (c) poor farmers in urban and rural
areas; (d) poor urban and rural households; (e) vulnerable groups such as ethnic Armenian refugees; (f)
private contractors participating in competitive tendering of small works; (g) local governments at the city
(city councils, mayors) and community level (village councils, mayors); (h) established community-based
associations (e.g. Schools Councils, Water Users Associations, Condominium Associations); and (i)
local-based training entities (e.g. Finance Officers Association, Mayors Association).
-7 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Experience ofASIFIProject: The ASIF II Project will benefit from the institutional and implementation
arrangements already in place under the ASIF I Project. After close to four years in operation, the ASIF
has gained valuable experience in all aspects of project management and administration, laying a solid
foundation for the ASIF II Project. Several beneficiary assessments conducted on the ASIF I Project have
revealed the high performance and dedication of the ASIF staff as perceived by the communities benefiting
under the project. Close and frequent supervisions in the field together with special reviews, studies and
assessments carried out under the ASIF I project have greatly benefited the first project. This work
covered technical and procurement issues, qualitative impact assessments of the benefits of the project,
in-depth technical assessment of the impact of the project under a mid-term review, and annual audits. As
a result, the ASIF has: (1) strengthened its institutional structure making it more effective and responsive to
changing needs of the organization; (2) enhanced its MIS and accounting systems for effectively monitoring
and supervising ASIF activities and expenditures; (3) improved administrative, technical and monitoring
procedures for a more effective management of ASIF operations; (4) enhanced the accountability of ASIF
management in the effective delivery of its services at the local level focusing on quality of works, and on
operations and maintenance issues; and (5) strengthened its partnership with line ministries, donor and
relevant project coordinating units of Bank investment operations to ensure consistency with the
Government's current reform program and the Bank's assistance program in Armenia.
I. Institutional Set-up and Administrative Structure of the ASIF II: The ASIF I was first established as
an autonomous organization by a Government Decree. After close to three years in operation, the
Government decided to change the status of all project implementation units (PIUs) managing Bank
projects to the status of Closed Joint Stock Companies. The ASIF I's new legal status did not affect its
operations nor its Board composition, role and functions. In the course of preparing the ASIF II Project,
the Government indicated their intention to grant the SIF a special status by establishing the ASIF II as a
Fund, in accordance with Articles 123 - 124 of the Civil Code of the Republic of Armenia. The ASIF II
was established as a Fund under Decree No. 162, dated April 11, 2000. The ASIF II as a Fund will
administer its operations as an autonomous entity, and will be govemed by its Board, with full authority to
manage and administer its program under operating guidelines and procedures set out in the project's
Operational Manual. The ASIF II will recruit office staff and technical consultants on a competitive basis
according to qualifications and selection criteria set out in the Finance and Personnel Administration
Manual. The ASIF II will also have the authority to enter into consultant services and civil works
contracts and to manage the project's financial accounts. The independent set-up of the ASIF will be
critical to ensure that the ASIF will carry out its day-to-day operations in an efficient and effective manner.
The organizational structure ( see Organizational Chart in Annex 11) of the ASIF II Project has been
restructured to meet the institutional challenges and evolving needs under the enhanced scope of the project
The novel features of this structure is its focus on the enhancement of the quality of works and institutional
support covering community outreach activities, training and technical assistance, microproject
procurement, as well as monitoring and evaluation. The organization will be govemed by a Board, chaired
by the Prime Minister, and including: (i) one representative each from the Ministries of Finance and
Economy, Territorial Administration and Urban Development, Education and Science, Social Security and
Health; (ii) the Head of the Department of Coordination and Monitoring of Loans, Grants and
Humanitarian Assistance; (iii) the Head of the Department of Coordination of PIUs; (iv) the Mayor of
Yerevan; (v) one representative each from the NGOs involved in the project; and (vi) the Executive
Director of ASIF. Bank representatives associated with the project will attend Board meetings as
observers. The duties and responsibilities of the Board at the institutional level will be to appoint the
- 8 -



Director of the ASIF and approve the recruitment of staff as Heads of Departments. At the administrative
level the Board will guide and supervise the administration and operations of the ASIF program in
accordance with the Decree and the Operational Manual. At the technical level, the Board will be
responsible for reviewing and approving quarterly and annual reports, key studies on technical and
procurement reviews, and ASIF microprojects as required by the Operational Manual. In addition to
routine Board meetings, the participation and involvement of the Board will be enhanced under the ASIF II
project by setting up periodic field visits for Board members to demonstration projects, and by organizing
yearly workshops and seminars with key stakeholders on special project related themes.
The review and approval of microprojects will remain the responsibility of the Executive Committee
composed of the Executive Manager and the Heads of the ASIF's five Departments. It will have the
responsibility for: (i) approval of microprojects of a size of US$100,000 or less; (ii) reviewing and
approving the annual work plans and budgets; (iii) reviewing on a case by case basis proposed reductions
for community contribution; and (iv) reviewing and approving revisions to the project's Operational
Manual. The Executive Director will chair the committee meetings and will be responsible for
coordinating, mediating and documenting the decisions of the committee meetings, and reporting to the
Board and to the Bank on key issues addressed at Committee meetings.
The ASIF II Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be headed by the Executive Director and will
comprise five Departments including Institutional Support, Microprojects, Procurement, Finance and
Administration and Management Information (see Annex 11 for detailed description of roles and functions).
Any changes in the appointment of or to the terms of employment of the Executive Director and the
Department Heads, will be subject to prior Bank approval. A comprehensive technical assistance
program has been developed to support the expanded scope of activities and to enhance the quality of
output in the ASIF II PIU. In particular, this program will finance the services of foreign and local
advisors/supervisors in quality of works, microproject procurement, MIS and cost accounting, and
compliance with the Operational Manual. These services will initially respond to the intensive needs at the
project start-up phase and will be provided thereafter on a periodic basis during project implementation.
II. Implementation Arrangements: The project would be implemented over a period of five and half years
(calendar FY 2000-2005) in accordance with the Project Implementation Schedule provided in Annex 12.
The timetable of activities draws from the valuable information and experience gained in the planning and
implementation of activities under the ASIF I project. Implementation arrangements under the ASIF II
Project will be govemed by the guidelines and procedures set out in the Operational Manual (OM). The
OM will be approved by the ASIF II Board and will be adopted as a legal document. Any changes in the
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, including the piloting of new procedures, will be
subject to the Bank's approval, prior to being implemented. The OM has been upgraded based on the
lessons learned and the experience gained in the management and implementation of the first social
investrnent program in Armenia. The refined and upgraded version of the OM defines the roles and
responsibilities of the new institutional structure in the ASIF, processes, and procedures covering
administrative arrangements for project implementation. A separate manual is also being developed on
technical norms and standards for every type of works covered in the social investment programs. The
development of the OM and its approval by the ASIF Board satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition
of Effectiveness. In addition to the OM, the current MIS program (see MIS description in Annex 15) in
the ASIF is being upgraded to respond to the needs to: (i) closely integrate it with the accounting system;
(ii) include a cost accounting system to monitor cost effectiveness of microprojects in meeting the basic
social needs of the poor; (iii) improve reporting procedures to strengthen monitoring and evaluation of all
ASIF operations for better decision making purposes; and (iv) develop a more effective system to track
-9-



training activities under the project.
The key institutions in the ASIF II implementation, and their respective roles are described below.
1) Project Implementation Unit (PIIJ): The PIU (also referred to as the ASIF Office) is responsible for
the overall management and administration of the ASIF II project. Each of the Departments in the PIU will
be managed by a Manager and comprise a number of specialized units. The Institutional Support
Department, a newly created department, will consist of three Units: a Community Outreach and
Promotion Unit, a Training and Technical Assistance Unit, and a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The
Microproject Department includes three Units covering Appraisal, Estimation and Follow-up. The
Procurement Department consists of a Procurement Unit and a Legal Unit. The Finance and
Administration Department consists of two Units on Accounting, and General Administration. The
Management Information Department will consist of a Data Generation Unit and an Office Technology
Unit. These Departments will provide technical and administrative support on ASIF operations under each
stage of the microproject cycle involving promotion, project identification and preparation, appraisal,
approval and implementation, supervision and monitoring. The implementation responsibilities under each
Department in the PIU are described in detail in Annex 11.
2) Implementing Agency (IA): The community-based organization, referred to as the local implementing
agency (IA), is directly responsible for microproject implementation. The lAs will be responsible for the
identification, prioritization of needs and consensus building on small-scale investment priorities which
maximize public benefit projects for their communities. Lessons under the ASIF I have shown that
effective participation at the community level comes from the active participation of local governments and
established community associations as members of the IA. These institutional entities are important,
particularly for: (a) asset management, operations and maintenance of the facilities renovated or
rehabilitated under the microprojects; and (b) improvement of programs and services provided at the local
level. The composition of the IA under the ASIF II will therefore support this partnership by including
representatives from the local government, established community associations (i.e. schools councils,
WUAs, and condominium associations) and community members. The IA will be headed by a local
government official or a member of the community-based association, and will be legally responsible for
carrying out the microproject under a Framework Agreement with the ASIF. The IA will be responsible
for microproject proposal, design, up-front collection of a financial and in-kind contribution consisting of
10% of total project costs, and operation and maintenance of facilities. The IA will also take charge of
procurement, implementation and reporting to the community on the progress of the microprojects.
3) Private Contractors: Private local contractors will compete for microproject contracts for design and
rehabilitation works. Contractors will be supervised by the IA and a qualified local on-site supervisor.
Experience under the ASIF I project has shown that the local supervisor selected by the IA, often times is
not qualified to carry out adequate supervision of works. To counter this problem, under the ASIF II
project, local supervisors will be recruited by the ASIF on a competitive basis. Contractors will be paid
directly from the ASIF II PIU based on certified statements and accomplished works that meet quality
standards.
4) Local Government: Under the Armenian laws on Urban Development and on Local Self-Governments,
local authorities are responsible for community planning. All the processes related to urban planning
activities are to be undertaken at the local level and financed from the local budget. These activities cover
key social assets/infrastructure frequently targeted by communities as a priority for rehabilitation through
the SIF. The ASIF II project will address the capacity building needs of local governments in these areas
through a comprehensive Action Plan (see Annex 16) for the Local-Level Institutional Strengthening
- 10-



component. In addition to the capacity building efforts at the local level focusing on decentralized planning
and management systems, the Action Plan also focuses on: (i) developing partnerships at the local level
between local govermment authorities and communities through effective outreach programs; and (ii)
enhancing stakeholder participation at the local level, through decentralization activities.
Procurement and Disbursement: Procurement and disbursement arrangements have been developed
based on the experience and lessons learned under the ASIF I project. Disbursement arrangements under
the project will be based on traditional methods (e.g. replenishment of the Special Account based on
Statement of Expenses). Once the PIU capacity is built up in both internal controls and implementation and
disbursement forecasting capacity, the PIU, in consultation with the Bank, will decide on whether and when
to make the transition to using the Project Management Reports (PMR) quarterly disbursement method.
This conversion to LACI disbursement will be carried out after the completion of a time-bound
action plan (see Annex 15), allowing a sufficient time for ASIF staff to become acquainted with the
new planning, management and monitoring tools. It is expected that the ASIF will have the capacity to
prepare the first PMR no later than June 30, 2001. The PIU will open and maintain the Special Account for
IDA disbursement purposes. The PIU will also open and maintain four additional accounts for: the
Government's counterpart contribution; the communities' cofinancing of microprojects; microproject
sponsors; and cofinanciers respectively. These accounts will be autonomous and will be audited annually
by an accredited auditing firm. Detailed disbursement and financial arrangements are outlined in Annex 6.
Procurement Arrangements (see Annex 6) under the project have been designed taking into account the
capacity of the ASIF PIU to implement project procurement, which was assessed during the Appraisal
mission. As a result of this assessment, a Procurement Action Plan (see Annex 6) was developed providing
a list of recommendations to strengthen the procurement capacity of the ASIF. Based on these
recommendations, technical assistance and training programs on procurement related activities have been
incorporated as part of the financing under the project.
Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing: The Finance and Personnel Administration Manual
will set out procedures relating to financial management, accounting and auditing. This manual will provide
comprehensive source of information on the various aspects of the Entity's regulations, organization,
activities, accounting and financial procedures, internal controls and flow of funds. The ASIF II will also
benefit from the qualified and trained staff of the Finance and Administration Department under the ASIF I
project. Staff in this Department have acquired substantial experience in carrying out the administrative,
accounting and reporting functions needed to ensure accountability for the operations of the ASIF.
Management Information System (MIS): To better assist and monitor project implementation, as well as to
meet the Bank's new reporting requirements (Project Management Reports - PMR), the ASIF has initiated
a process of upgrading its MIS (see Annex 15 for MIS description), which will in broad terms, integrate
general information on microprojects with the financial management and cost accounting systems. As part
of this process, a new integrated financial management system will be introduced during the second half of
year 2000. The system will comprise a financial accounting module, suitable to meet ASIF statutory
reporting requirements according to the Armenian accounting regulations and project reporting
requirements (quarterly PMRs). The architecture of the new financial management system will ensure the
completeness of the ASIF's Project accounting records and the timeliness and reliability of the financial
information generated by the system. The new financial management system is expected to be fully
tested and operational by September 30, 2000.
- 11 -



Thefinancial accounting module will cover the entire project i.e., all sources of funds for the project (e.g.:
Government of Armenia, World Bank, other co-financiers/donors) and all utilization of funds (Project
expenditures). The accounting system will be based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping. The design
and installation of the accounting system would, inter alia include the following aspects:
Accounting Centers - Determination of centers at which project accounts will be maintained, and
making arrangements for information flow and for the consolidation of accounts into integrated project
accounts. These arrangements would be closely related to the arrangements for flow of funds, to
ensure that the agencies to whom funds are provided properly account for funds provided to them.
Development of a Chart of Accounts - The Chart of Accounts will be used to: (a) capture financial
data under appropriate headings; and (b) classify and group financial data for the various financial
reports. The structure of the Chart of Accounts should cater for data to be captured by: (i) project
components and sub-components; (ii) expenditure categories; (iii) World-Bank disbursement categories
for the project; and (iv) sources of funding. The structure of the Chart of Accounts should conform
closely to the project cost tables to enable comparison of actual project costs during implementation
with those estimated during project preparation. The Chart of Accounts should also provide
appropriate linkages with the reporting heads for Government budgeting and with other donors'
reporting requirements.
Financial Reporting - The financial reports will include: (i) data for preparation of Withdrawal
Applications to be submitted to the World Bank for reimbursement of expenditure (Statement of
Expenditures - SOE), including a Summary Schedule; (ii) annual Project Financial Statements (PFS);
and (iii) all the Project Management Reports (PMRs) to be used by project management to monitor
project performance. These reports include: (i) financial statements (e.g., sources and application of
funds; expenditures classified by project components, disbursement categories, expenditure types and
implementing agencies, and comparison with budgets; short-term forecasts of expenditure); (ii)
monitorable indicators (e.g. unit costs for key items and comparison with budgets; contracts
management, etc.); and (iii) Procurement monitoring reports.
Compliance - The accounting system will conform to the relevant policies of the Republic of Armenia
and the implementing entities (i.e. charter), and will also conform to the relevant guidelines and
operational policies of the World Bank.
Cost Accounting System: As part of the MIS upgrading exercise, a cost accounting system (see section E
and Annex 4 a) will be introduced to provide ASIF management and the Bank with a well organized
information system on microprojects to ensure greater cost effectiveness in the use of public funds in
meeting the basic social and economic infrastructure needs of the poor. Specifically, this system will: (i)
provide information on the full cost of projects, including ASIF overheads; (ii) help monitor the cost of
microprojects (iii) provide a framework for implementing cost- efficiency measures; and (iv) provide the
basis for formulating the financial plans and the annual budgets.
Audit: The records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statement of income, and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year will be audited, in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. A
certified copy of the audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. Under the ASIF I project audits were carried out by Amyot Exco Armenia. For the new
Project, the auditor's appointment will be re-bidded under terms of reference which will include the
Project's and the Entity's financial statements.
- 12 -



Monitoring and Evaluation: Project monitoring activities will be the responsibility of the ASIF II PIU,
contracting out these functions when appropriate. Monitoring activities under the project will entail a
process for reviewing continuously and systematically different aspects of project implementation. The
objectives of the monitoring and evaluation activities would be to: (a) ensure that procedures carried out for
implementing microprojects, executing contracts and managing project accounts are in compliance with the
Operational Manual; (b) provide information regularly on progress toward achieving desirable results and
facilitating reporting to the Board of Directors, the Government and donors; (c) alert managers to actual or
potential problems in implementation so that adjustments can be made; and (d) determine how the project is
affecting the intended beneficiaries. The monitoring and evaluation framework of the ASIF II would
comprise: (i) microproject monitoring by ASIF II staff and Implementing Agencies; (ii) the Management
Information System (MIS), (iii) annual technical, procurement and audit reviews; (iv) annual beneficiary
impact assessments; and (v) Bank supervision missions. A special Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will be
set up under the newly created Institutional Development Department of the ASIF II to facilitate and
coordinate monitoring and evaluation activities under the project. The MIS will be the major tool to
support the monitoring of perforrnance and to generate impact indicators for the project as a whole, and for
each individual microproject. It will track SIF activities in the sub-project cycle, including basic
microproject data, monitor progress of works based on microproject supervision visits, and flag
microprojects experiencing unusual delays and signal possible cost overruns. MIS-generated reports would
be an integral part of the monthly reports submitted by ASIF management to the Board for their review and
of the quarterly reports and comprehensive annual reports submitted to donors. The Bank will undertake its
semi-annual supervision missions and a mid-term review scheduled for March 15, 2003.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Despite stable macroeconomic performance and a good track record in structural reforrn, there has been no
noticeable improvement in living standards for the majority of the population. Poverty continues to be
widespread and severe, with an estimated 55 percent of the population, or 2 million people living below the
poverty line. Income inequality has widened in recent years, as reflected by the dramatic rise in the Gini
coefficient from 0.26 in 1989 to 0.58 in 1996 for per capita income distribution. However, for household
expenditures which are more consistent, the Gini coefficient was estimated at 0.44 in 1996. Nevertheless,
in 1996/97, per capita consumption was still 18 times higher in the top decile than for the poorest 10
percent.
As noted in the CAS, in the short term, economic growth will not be sufficient to bring all groups out of
poverty, particularly in the context of major economic restructuring. Targeted interventions are therefore
required to directly address the needs of the poor. The ASIF II project will complement other Bank and
donor funded projects by focusing on the rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure to improve the
living conditions of the poor and build capacity at the local level to design, implement and maintain
projects.
Project altematives were considered and the reasons for rejection are as follows:
(i) Extension of activities under the current ASIF I Project: This altemative consists of extending activities
under the current investment operation, concentrating primarily on rehabilitating small scale infrastructure
and employment generation. This proposal was rejected for the following reasons: (a) the need to adjust the
current investment operation to the evolving economic environment and the Government's current sector
reform strategy, as for example Government strategies on social protection, health, and education; (b) the
- 13-



need for greater stakeholder participation at the local level at all stages of the project cycle to engender
ownership and project sustainability; and (c) to lend support to the Government's current initiatives in
decentralization and strengthening local government capacity.
(ii) Discontinuation of SIF activities and distribute responsibility of managing and implementing
development objectives originally proposed under the social fund to sectoral ministries and donors: This
second alternative was rejected for the following reasons: (a) the sectoral ministries' top-down and overly
bureaucratic approach would not be sufficiently responsive to community-driven project proposals in a
social fund operation. Flexibility is the key advantage of a Social fund in adjusting to emerging local
demands in a variety of critical activities and producing tangible results in a short time; (b) the recent
cost-effectiveness study has shown that costs of microprojects completed by ASIF to be lower than those
carried out by traditional government departments; (c) experience has shown that management and
implementation of development objectives of social fund operations has worked best under the
administration of an autonomous entity with minimal bureaucratic processes; (d) compared to other donors,
the Bank has a comparative advantage in drawing from the international experience in financing such
programs and in designing a viable and institutionally sound framework to implement SIF activities; and (e)
capacity will be strengthened at the local level to carry on conmnunity driven microprojects in the future.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Quality and Efficiency of Primary  Health Project (AM-29790)        S             S
Health Care Services              (Ongoing)
Quality of and Access to Education    Education Project (AM-30070)  S             S
Services                          (Ongoing)
Housing Strategy/Water Rehabilitation Municipal Development Project  S            S
(AM-30950) (Ongoing)
S             S
Support to Small Farmers          Agriculture Reform Support
Project (AM-30350) (Ongoing)
Irrigation Rehabilitation         Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  S            S
(AM-26670) (Ongoing)
Public Service Delivery           Public Sector Reform Project
(Proposed)
- 14 -



Other development agencies
UNHCR -- Social Assistance to      Provision of Food, Shelter,
Refugees                           Basic Social Infrastructure
Services for Ethnic Armenian
Refugees.
Rehabilitation of Schools in the
USAID -- Education                 Earthquake Zone.
USAID -- Decentralization/Institutional Training of Local Govermnent
Strengthening                      Officials in Financial
Management and City
Planning.
OXFAM -- Improving Access to Safe  Rehabilitation of Water and
Water and Sanitation               Sanitation Infrastructure in
South Armenia.
Save the Children Fund -- Social   Community Development
Infrastructure Rehabilitation      Program in Water, Irrigation,
and Education Infrastructure.
All Armenia Fund -- Infrastructure  Rehabilitation of Schools,
Rehabilitation                     Roads, Clinics, and Residential
Buildings.
Medecins Sans Frontiers -- Primary    Provision of Medical Supplies
Health Services.                   and Training for Health Clinics
UNDP --Decentralization/Institutional  Provision of Technical
Strengthening                      Assistance and Training to
Municipal Authorities.
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The ASIF II Project will focus on the following critical areas, drawing from the lessons learned from the
ASIF I Project:
(i) Poverty Targeting: Experience of ASIF I has underlined the need to improve poverty targeting. The
poverty targeting strategy (see Annex 14) under the ASIF II Project is designed to reach the poor more
effectively and further refine the approval criteria and typology of microprojects. Elements of this strategy
include: (a) a revised methodology for regional allocation using a formula based on two factors: the share
of population and the degree of a region's poverty, as measured by a poverty score (computed from selected
poverty indicators from each region and regional preference factors reflecting the special needs of
earthquake and border regions) -- using data from the 1996/97 Household Survey; (b) revised approval
criteria (see Annex 13) for microprojects based on the needs and conditions of infrastructure facilities, cost
per beneficiary, and the capacity of the lAs; (c) changes in the typology to better reflect the emerging
community demands (e.g., school heating systems to facilitate attendance during the winter months); and
(d) a monitoring and evaluation system for assessing poverty targeting under the ASIF II.
(ii) Sectoral Policies and Investment Priorities: ASIF I has made significant progress in ensuring its
activities are consistent with social sector strategy priorities, government reform programs, and activities of
municipal, NGO, UN, and other donor agencies. However, the Mid-Term Review carried out in April
- 15 -



1998, and subsequent missions have indicated the need for improving inter-sectoral and inter-agency
coordination. Accordingly, the ASIF II Project will focus on greater coordination of social fund activities
with relevant sectoral policies (i.e. health and education) and investment priorities. This will be achieved
through: (a) the development of a more effective information, outreach, and communications strategy, and
its implementation through a special Community Outreach and Promotion Unit within the ASIF office; and
(b) regular working level contacts among the line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies, and Bank project
management units. A handbook on information, outreach and inter-agency coordination has already been
developed and will be distributed to local governments and communities during promotion. This handbook
will be updated regularly, both at the sector-policy and operational levels, to assist ASIF in carrying out the
above functions.
(iii) Quality of Works. Since the start of ASIF I, the quality of microprojects has progressively improved
due to the experience gained by the ASIF staff, improved quality of designs, microproject supervision by
technical experts, and supervision by microproject designers for the more complex facilities. Building upon
this experience, measures to improve the quality of works will be further intensified. These comprise
improved procedures for ensuring: (a) the inclusion of detailed technical specifications for all microproject
types; (b) the inclusion of technical specifications and delivery periods in bid documents; (c) selection of
winning bids based on lowest price at the required quality; (d) demonstration by a contractor of completion
of at least US$30,000 worth of projects in the previous five years as a pre-qualification to participate in
bids; (e) contracting on a competitive basis the design and supervision of microprojects, supported by an
increase in allocation from 3% under ASIF I to 8% of the total microproject value under ASIF II; (f) the
use of quality control monitoring techniques by ASIF staff at the follow-up stage; (g) proper hand-over
procedures with hold back release programs depending on categories of work; (h) training of ASIF staff on
all aspects of quality enhancement and procurement; (i) training of contractors on technical standards and
ASIF procedures; (j) recruitment of foreign and local advisors/supervisors in quality of works, microproject
procurement, MIS and cost accounting, and compliance with the Operational Manual; and (k) the setting
up of a showcase room in the ASIF Office to display the technical standards and quality of output in
typical components expected under ASIF microprojects. These measures will be carried out under the
Quality of Works Enhancement and Procurement Action Plans.
(iv) Sustainability: The implementation of the ASIF I project has clearly demonstrated the critical need to
improve project sustainability through a comprehensive framework encompassing strong institutional
support from the ASIF office, effective systems and procedures, and greater involvement of the key
stakeholders. Accordingly, the ASIF II under a strengthened organizational structure focuses on
institutional mechanisms to: (a) improve quality of works through compliance with technical standards and
closer supervision; (b) develop the capacity of local authorities through training and technical assistance to
help formulate budgets which provide adequate financing for operation and maintenance of completed
microprojects; and (c) strengthen local government and community involvement in the design,
implementation, and maintenance of microprojects. The ASIF II will put primacy on capacity-building and
at improving the ability of community groups to progressively enhance their roles as active agents in their
communities with a greater sense of commitment, ownership and accountability in service delivery on a
sustainable basis.
(v) Local Capacity Building: One of the objectives of ASIF I has been to build the capacity of local
govemment staff and communities so that they can prepare and implement microprojects. While some
progress in this direction has been achieved, the training efforts have been insufficient due to the lack of an
effective, well staffed institutional unit within the ASIF and a lack of a well structured training program.
The ASIF II will focus heavily on delivering the needed capacity building service by identifying the best
resources available to assist with the development of this essential component. This will be achieved
- 16 -



through: (a) the creation of a special Training and Technical Assistance Coordination Unit in ASIF, with
trained staff who will be responsible for assessing, organizing, and coordinating training and technical
assistance at the local level; (b) enhanced microproject training programs for local governments and
communities in the preparation, design, implementation, and operation and maintenance of microprojects,
as well as on ASIF procedures and methods of ensuring quality of works, through the services of qualified
trainers, additional resources and better organization and management of training programs; (c) new
training programs for local government officials in financial management, budgeting, taxation and asset
management, building on the work of other donors in these areas; (d) sector specific training programs for
community-based organizations and community members involved in microproject activities; and (e)
special training to contractors on technical norms and standards, competitive bidding processes, and ASIF
procedures.
(vi) Monitoring and Evaluation: Based on the experience of ASIF I, emphasis will be placed on the
continued use of monitoring mechanisms such as beneficiary assessments, client satisfaction surveys, and
other more directly participatory methods of client involvement in monitoring and evaluation to monitor
outcomes on the ground. The aim is to develop and set up a systematic approach to monitoring and
evaluating the impact of development activities and adjusting related policies and programs on a continuing
basis. For this purpose, a special Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will be created within the ASIF Office to
systematically collect data from other departments, analyze such data and prepare regular progress reports
for review and decision making by ASIF Management. The ASIF II project will benefit from monitoring
and evaluation carried out through procurement and technical reviews, the Mid-Term review, and
supervision missions. In addition, provision has been made under the ASIF II project for: (a) five impact
assessments, one at the end of each year; and (b) special studies to be selected from areas such as project
sustainability, stakeholder participation, skill transfers, and institutional development.
(vii) Microproject Delivery Schedule: One of the main reasons for delays in the completion of
microprojects has been the number of change orders received during microproject construction, over the
15% limit. With a view to minimizing such delays, the 15% limit will be strictly enforced under the ASIF
II project. In addition, to facilitate the payment process and minimizing change orders, a lump sum
contracting procedure ( with broad expenditure groupings) will be adopted under ASIF II, in place of the
current procedure which has a very large number of line items per contract.
(viii) Decentralized Decision Making: Under ASIF I, steps were taken to encourage decentralized
decision making at the local level -- which has proven to help make projects demand driven and to
strengthen project ownership. These efforts will be intensified under ASIF II by: (a) building partnerships
and stakeholder participation at the local level through infornation dissemination and active involvement of
stakeholders at all stages of the project cycle; (b) enhancing project ownership through enforcement of
maintenance agreements between the local government and ASIF, promoting the provision of line items in
local government budgets for operations and maintenance of completed facilities, flexibility in generating
community contributions based on capacity to pay, and monitoring of project sustainability; and (c)
progressively building local capacity with the objective of preparing communities towards direct
contracting of works.
(ix) The Matching Fund Arrangement: A total of US$2.00 million was set aside from the ASIF I IDA
Credit, for financing of microprojects dollar-to-dollar, as a matching fund to attract private contributions.
Under the ASIF II project the matching fund arrangement will be maintained based on an IDA contribution
of US$2.71 million, supplemented by contributions from private sponsors, local communities and the
Government. One of the lessons leamed was that private sponsors chose projects without reference to the
formal criteria set out in the operational manual. To address this issue, donors will choose from a
-17-



pre-selected list of microprojects, ranked according to project selection criteria established in the
Operational Manual. To limit the amount going to each region, the total sponsor contribution to a
particular marz cannot exceed 30 percent of the total amount allocated to that particular marz, as described
in Table 3 of Annex 14.
(x) Cost Efficiency: The cost-effectiveness analysis of ASIF I microprojects, carried out recently, as well
as findings of the pre-Appraisal mission have highlighted the need for: (a) information on the full cost of
microprojects, including ASIF overheads, on a more accurate and explicit basis; (b) continually monitoring
the cost of microprojects through well designed progress reports; (c) developing a framework for
implementing cost efficiency measures; and (d) a framework for formulating budgets for future years.
These issues will be addressed through the design and implementation of a cost accounting system, as part
of the upgraded MIS. The cost accounting system will provide ASIF Management, on a quarterly basis,
with a well organized information system to ensure cost effective use of public funds in meeting the basic
social infrastructure needs of the poor. Such infonnation will also be transmitted in quarterly progress
reports to the Bank to help assess the cost effectiveness in the use of IDA and public funds in meeting the
social infrastructure needs of the poor.
(xi) Community Contribution: One of the effective mechanisms for community participation and local
resource mobilization adopted by the ASIF has been the mandatory community contribution (in cash and in
kind). This local contribution requirement provides communities with incentives for choosing investments
with high public good value as well as motivation for operation and maintenance of microprojects. At the
start of the project, the community contribution was set at 15 percent of cost of proposed microprojects.
However, the community contribution slowed down significantly during the first year of effectiveness, and
since a number of poor communities could not come up with the required contribution, several projects with
high potential benefits to the poor had to be dropped. In May 1996, agreement was reached between the
ASIF Board and the Bank to lower the community contribution to 10 percent for all microprojects, with a
minimum of 5 percent for poor communities, based on assessment of poverty and capacity to pay. Under
ASIF II, this flexible approach will be continued, based on a final decision by the Executive Committee.
The principal forms of monetary contributions will include: (a) monetary contributions including
allocations from local authorities, contributions from community members, and contributions from
alternate sources; (b) labor contributions from community members; and (c) in-kind contributions, mainly
construction materials. The new operational manual reflects this change.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During the Appraisal mission and during Negotiations, the Government acknowledged the tangible benefits
of the ASIF I project in meeting the social infrastructure needs of the poor, and confirmed its commitment
to the ASIF II project. Specifically, the Government requested IDA financing of the follow-up ASIF II
project and has confirmed during Negotiations that an initial deposit of US$80,000 will be provided as
counterpart funding prior to effectiveness, in the event that the proposed project is approved. The success
of the ASIF I Project as well as the strengthened focus of the ASIF II project in institution building at the
local level, will help consolidate Borrower commitment and ownership of the project.
- 18 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed ASIF II project is an integral part of the continuing effort in supporting the Government of
Annenia in carrying out its poverty reduction strategy involving a number of sectoral policies. These
policies are in line with the Bank's strategy in Armenia, the prime focus of which is on consolidating
economic growth and ensuring social sustainability. In response to the poverty assessment conducted in
Armenia in 1997, the ASIF II Project will focus on the need for higher priority to human resources in
structural adjustment. The Project will have very strong linkages with the Government's health and
education programs, where the Bank is actively involved.
Specifically, the value added of Bank support will be: (a) enhanced microproject quality through better
technical design, strict adherence to specifications, improved procurement procedures, and better
supervision; (b) poverty targeting based on an improved methodology for regional allocations of funds to
reach the poor, and improved criteria for project selection; (c) ensuring cost effectiveness in the use of
project funds by closer monitoring through an upgraded MIS, and a cost accounting system; (d) greater
stakeholder participation at the local level through decentralization of activities, with clear roles for local
government and communities in the preparation, design, implementation, and maintenance of microprojects;
and (e) capacity building at the local level focusing on community participation, strengthening of local
government in decentralized management and financing systems, greater transparency in local government
programs, and reinforcing partnerships between central government, local government, and communities.
Finally, this project will enhance the sense of empowerment of the poor whereby they gain an appreciation
of their own ability and potential to act for their own self-improvement.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
e Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
As in other social fund operations, the demand-driven character of the microprojects precludes the use of
traditional methods of cost-benefit analysis ex ante for the proposed ASIF II project. Instead, a
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis was carried out, the main approach of which was to examine: (i) the project
rationale within the broader economic context of national development objectives, govermment strategy, and
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy; and (ii) the cost-effectiveness in the use of public funds for ASIF
microprojects compared with those carried out under traditional government programs, and those assisted
by NGOs. The analysis showed that the project rationale was consistent with the Government's
development strategy, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. (See Summary of Cost-Effectiveness
study in Annex 4). As regards cost effectiveness, the approach was to examine costs of microprojects
completed under ASIF I in relation to those implemented under government and NGO programs. The
analysis showed the costs of school rehabilitation and construction under ASIF to be lower than those
carried out by the Government; the result was the same in the case of irrigation projects. In potable water
projects, ASIF microproject costs were higher than those carried out by NGOs, primarily due to the more
complex technical nature and larger size of ASIF projects. However, the cost per beneficiary was lower in
ASIF urban projects than in those financed by NGOs. Thus, the analysis has suggested that the proposed
ASIF II project will be a cost effective means of meeting the social infrastructure needs of the poor,
provided the same standards of technical and economic efficiency are maintained, or further improved.
Cost-effectiveness is expected to improve since technical standards will benefit from the quality of works
enhancement program, while the implementation of a cost accounting system will help improve cost
- 19 -



efficiency.
In implementing ASIF II, microprojects funded under the project will be selected according to criteria
described in the Operational Manual, which integrate simple quantitative economic analysis, consistent
with the size of the microproject, cost per beneficiary, and local capacity. The project will help
communities to use least-cost analysis in comparing various technical solutions, including the future
expected cost of operations and maintenance.
In qualitative terms, the Cost Effectiveness study has demonstrated the far-reaching benefits of ASIF I for a
modest project size of US$20 million. It improved living conditions of many low income communities by
supporting basic small-scale social and economic infrastructure rehabilitation (schools, potable water
supply, clinics, irrigation systems). Likewise, the ASIF II Project with an investment of US$29.32 million
will respond to community demands for priority social needs and is expected to produce tangible benefits to
thousands of community members. While a variety of microprojects are expected to be financed under
ASIF II, the majority of these are expected to:
* upgrade school buildings to help implement basic education programs;
* provide school heating to enable better attendance during the winter months;
* improve water supply to rural and urban communities;
* rehabilitate irrigation works to support agriculture, and thereby raise rural incomes; and
* rehabilitate health clinics to support health services at the community level.
The ASIF II project will generate short-term employment for the poor through the construction phase of a
microproject. It will also stimulate the development of the local construction industry through introducing
competitive procurement and encouraging small-scale contracting firms. More importantly, through the
use of participatory mechanisms and its demand-driven approach, significant qualitative benefits from the
ASIF II Project will be the increased sense of ownership, trust, social cohesion, and empowerment in many
communities.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
No detailed financial analysis showing the net present value and the financial rate of return was undertaken
since ASIF II is a non-revenue generating project.
As regards financial management aspects, the project will benefit from the effective financial controls
established under the ASIF I Project, with skilled staff who have been handling financial responsibilities
and accounting for close to five years. The ASIF II Project will also benefit from an accounting system
effectively linked to the Management Information System developed under the ASIF I Project. Accounts
will be maintained in accordance with the required financial standards which will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Accordingly, the Operational Manual for ASIF II has been
revised to reflect the requirements of the Bank's Financial Management System (FMS). In addition, a cost
accounting system will be integrated with the upgraded MIS to strengthen monitoring and to ensure the cost
effectiveness of microprojects under ASIF II.
Fiscal Impact:
The main fiscal impact of the project will be the counterpart funding required from the Govemment
estimated at US$1.43 million (including a cash contribution of US$880,000 an in-kind contribution of
- 20 -



US$505,000 for ASIF office rent, and taxes amounting to US$45,000). Under ASIF I, the required
government contribution, in cash amounted to US$720,000, or 6.0 percent of the IDA allocation of US$12
million. The government contribution under ASIF II over a period of five and a half years will consist of a
payment prior to Credit Effectiveness of US$80,000, plus ten semi-annual payments of US$80,000 each.
The government contribution will finance a part of the capital cost of microprojects as well as taxes and
office rent. The principal fiscal benefit from this government contribution will be substantial savings in
government expenditure, mainly on education, water supply, and irrigation, that would have been necessary
in the absence of the project.
The other fiscal impact relates to project's contribution to tax revenues: (a) income taxes from ASIF staff
salaries and wages; and (b) the 20 percent VAT on all expenditures on microprojects financed by the
Government, local communities, and local private sponsors.
3. Technical:
The ASIF II Project will support the financing of well defined, technically sound and cost effective
microprojects. In doing so it will address the key technical issue concerning quality of works which will be
enhanced by: (i) the development of proper technical norms and standards; (ii) enforcement of these norms
and standards through effective procurement procedures and systematic project supervision at the local
level focusing on contractor performance by qualified technical consultants and ASIF staff; (iii)
engagement of technical experts in the design and supervision of works; (iv) training of ASIF staff,
implementing agencies and contractors in relevant fields of quality enhancement; (v) the recruitment of
foreign and local advisors/supervisors in quality of works, microproject procurement, MIS and cost
accounting, and compliance with the Operational Manual ; (vi) annual procurement and technical reviews;
and (vii) semi-annual Bank supervision missions and the mid-term review. (See Section D 3 (iii) for details
on lessons learned).
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The project will reinforce and build on the strengths of the interactive partnership of the public and the
government which are essential to the creation of a nation's civil society. This partnership is reflected in the
Community-based implementing agencies, which will have the primary institutional responsibility for
implementing microproject works through local contractors. The ASIF II project offers a strengthened
development framework to support these agencies through: (i) enhanced institutional support of the ASIF
Office, which places primacy on: (a) community outreach programs to better assess, inform and prepare
communities for their involvement under the project; (b) the effective management and supervision of
technical works with a focus on enhancing the quality of works; and (c) the provision of training through a
comprehensive, institutionally sound and implementable training programs to build the capacity of local
governments and community groups in their new management responsibilities of rural infrastructure
facilities; (ii) a strengthened institutional structure of the Implementing Agencies (IAs) to ensure greater
commitment, and accountability through the participation of local governments, user groups (i.e. Water
Users Associations), established community-based associations (e.g. School Councils, Condominium
Associations) and community members as citizen-consumers. This institutional arrangement will be key
for forming an effective partnership at the local level where local authorities, legal community entities and
consumers will be closely linked at all stages of the project cycle and in decisions on service delivery; and
(iii) systematic client consultation feedback mechanisms to assess the effectiveness of the institutional
arrangements and the social impact of the project.
-21 -



b. Project management:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the ASIF II project will be responsible for the overall
management of SIF operations covering institutional, technical and administrative matters. The PIU will
benefit from the valuable experience and lessons learned under the ASIF I project under which the ASIF
has demonstrated strong capacity and competence in project management. The five year SIF program has
provided substantial investment in training and technical assistance to the PIU, which has laid the
foundation for an effective management of SIF operations. The ASIF will continue to benefit from
additional training and technical assistance, which will be provided on an ongoing basis throughout the life
of the project. The ASIF structure has been strengthened to further enhance its administrative support
functions with the focus of providing better and more effective services at the local level. Project
management in the ASIF Office will be govemed by the guidelines and procedures set out in the
Operational Manual. The Executive Director will have the overall responsibility of ensuring effectiveness
and timeliness of ASIF Operations in accordance with the OM. The Executive Director will be supported
by the five Department Heads, each of which will report to the Director on implementation activities under
their respective department. The Board will oversee the quality of project management and ensure its
consistency with Government policies and the OM.
As was the practice under the ASIF I project, project management will be systematically assessed during
Bank supervision missions. At the microproject level, the assessment will cover: (i) the intemal monitoring
system ensuring that it provides transparency and accountability of ASIF activities; (ii) procurement
conducted by Implementing Agencies and the technical quality of the rehabilitation works; (iii) compliance
with the project's criteria and procedures for appraisal, approval, implementation, and monitoring set out in
the Operational Manual; (iv) adherence to environmental standards; and (v) effective maintenance of
microproject files. At the project management level, the assessment will cover: (i) all documentation
relating to disbursement, procurement and reporting; (ii) the project accounting system and the project's
fimancial accounts; and (iii) legal and financial covenants ensuring that the Government is in compliance
with the Credit Agreement. The upgraded Management Information System (MIS) will provide more
systematic and frequent feedback through an enhanced reporting and monitoring system for better decision
making in project management.
-22 -



5. Social:
The proposed ASIF II Project represents a continuous and evolving effort in supporting community
development at the local level by giving primacy to the active involvement of local governments and
community members in the decisions and activities which affect the quality of their lives. Specifically, the
project will make a valuable contribution to community development by helping to build managerial
competency, encouraging decision-making around shared assets, and helping instill a sense of self-reliance.
The ASIF's development program will prepare local govemnments and community groups to effectively
deliver municipal services to the most vulnerable groups of society. The project will build on the efforts
initiated under the ASIF I aimed at buttressing participatory approaches in service delivery. Survey results
under the first SIF operation have shown that as a result of ASIF-supported microprojects, there has been a
change of mentality at the community level, including an increased sense of ownership of their
infrastructure facilities and a greater cohesion amongst the members of the conimunity. The ASIF II will
reinforce this social capital and progressively prepare local governments and communities in the
fundamentals of participation, accountability, and project management. The continuation of the SIF
program will play a key role in helping local governments and community groups cope with their new
management responsibilities and accountability by providing a development framework in which they will
be trained to identify and prepare projects, to plan and budget finances, supervise their implementation, and
assume responsibility for recurrent operating and maintenance costs through the provision of technical
assistance and training. The participation of public authorities in the SIF program will be critical in
developing an understanding of the importance of providing efficiency and service to the public, the public's
knowledge and understanding of the process, and the recognition that participation implies that people
acquire a greater voice in local affairs and an expanded role in decision making process. Similarly, the SIF
program will benefit communities in dealing with the local bureaucracy in a new participatory way by
actively engaging them in development activities as active agents in the service management process.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: F
No major environmental issues are anticipated under the proposed ASIF II project given the relatively small
size and rehabilitation nature of most microprojects. However, certain microproject types such as water
supply rehabilitation schemes to be funded under the project may require special environmental mitigation
measures to protect quality of the water source (in-situ and upstream). Environmental mitigation measures
may also be needed in the case of sewage, sanitation systems and irrigation rehabilitation works
sub-projects. Environmental concerns will be mitigated in the selection and implementation of
sub-projects. The Operational Manual of the project includes procedures and implementation arrangements
for ensuring full consideration of environmental safeguards, in accordance with the Bank environmental
assessment guidelines and the 1995 Armenia Bill on Environmental Impact Assessment. In addition to the
normal environmental checks for enhancing health safety and protecting the environment, the OM also
provides concrete examples of best management practices, e.g. in areas where grazing is practiced, water
spring fencing is an effective way to improve water quality by keeping livestock out of the water source.
Each microproject will be individually screened and reviewed by the ASIF - by specific type - for any
negative impacts, and mitigation measures will be proposed where necessary. The community proposal
will incorporate an environmental review checklist, and the microproject appraisal documents will adapt
type- specific analysis, costs, and mitigation measures, in part, based on the proven practices in SIFs in the
Latin American Region. Training will be provided to technical specialists in the ASIF to carry out
implementation of sub-projects according to agreed environmental standards. See Annex 18 for
environmental mitigation measures and review checklist.
- 23 -



7. Participatorv Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the ASIF II project will be: (i) poor primary and secondary school children
and their families in urban and rural areas; (ii) poor farmers in urban and rural areas; (iii) poor urban and
rural households; (iv) vulnerable groups such as ethnic Armenian refugees; (v) private contractors
participating in microproject works; (vi) local governments at the city (City Councils, Mayors) and
comnmunity (Village Councils, Mayors) levels; and (vii) established community-based associations (e.g.
school councils, Water Users Associations, Condominium Associations).
b. Other key stakeholders:
The key stakeholders include central and regional governments, National Finance Officers Association,
Mayors Association, UNHCR and donors.
The project will build upon and enhance the participatory framework developed under the ASIF I project.
The focus of the ASIF II will be to strengthen the institutional arrangements both at the project
management level, as well as at the community level with the objective of enhancing the overall
effectiveness and accountability of the ASIF PIU and of the local counterparts. The ASIF II will place
special emphasis on enhancing community participation mechanisms consisting of the following stages:
(i) Investigative stage: This stage will consist of listening to the members of diverse communities
regarding their interest in and capacity for participating in ASIF II, community outreach and promotional
activities focusing on: (a) institutional assessment of the local government and communities interested in
participating in the microprojects focusing on structure, function and responsibilities of these local groups;
(b) needs assessment/identification of these local groups in terms of priority microprojects; and (c) training
needs assessments to determine the capacity gaps of the key stakeholders.
(ii) Consultation and Information Dissemination stage: This stage will involve consultation with local
groups involving public meetings and interviews to discuss and determine priorities and concerns that
would engender ownership and distribute information on the SIF program and on the Govenmment's sectoral
policies.
(iii) Negotiation/Preparation Stage: This stage will involve the close collaboration of ASIF and technical
staff working together with Implementing Agencies in microproject design, planning and management.
(iv) Implementation/Supervision Stage: This stage will enhance and support the involvement at the local
communities through the active participation of communities in the management and supervision of
microproject activities. Participatory appraisal and planning techniques will be designed to enable
communities to prioritize, plan and implement their own development and to give voice to the poor.
(v) Beneficiary Impact Assessment Stage: The impact of the project with regard to key stakeholder
participation and overall satisfaction with the SIF program will be systematically monitored throughout the
life of the project. Beneficiary assessments will be independently contracted out by the ASIF II to provide
feedback and evaluation from the community concerning what it perceived to be the project's direct and
indirect impacts regarding improved access and quality of services, local participation and organization,
attitudes and values, local government relations, new associations and partnerships, and sustainability.
- 24 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabilitv:
The ASIF II project will focus on enhancing institutional arrangements that can lead to social benefits for
the project that are sustainable in the long-run. This will be achieved under a comprehensive institutional
framework designed to support the wider process of developing, managing, operating and maintaining
infrastructure facilities. Under this approach, sustainability will be achieved through the provision of the
following incentives at the local level: (i) economic efficiency - the benefits of operating and maintaining
facilities exceeding the full set of direct and indirect costs; (ii) accountability - local authorities being
accountable to citizens concerning the development, use, operation and maintenance of a public facility;
(iii) forming an effective partnership at the local level through the active involvement/participation of
institutionally effective local governments and key local community groups in decentralized planning and
management systems; (iv) client satisfaction with quality of works; and (v) generation of short-term
employment at the local level.
Sustainability of the project will also be enhanced by the Government contribution towards the initial
capital costs of microprojects totaling US$880,000 in cash over the five and half years of the project, and
local government and conmmunities will finance 10% of microproject cost, totaling US$2,002,100. It will
be the responsibility of the respective asset owners to take the lead in mobilizing the resources for operation
and maintenance of the facilities. Under the ASIF II project the local authorities will be encouraged to set
up line items in their respective budgets to provide for asset maintenance while the proposed training
programs in financial management and community planning will give special emphasis to these aspects.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating,           Risk Minimibation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The Government's capacity to provide        S         To ensure counterpart funding on a timely basis,
counterpart funding equivalent to                    the Government will include a line item in the
US$880,000 on a timely basis.                         State budget on an annual basis. The cases of
non-compliance in the counterpart funding will
be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and a
decision would be taken regarding what measure
to take at that time.
- 25 -



Assurance of good quality of works          M         The ASIF II Project will ensure quality of
financed under the project.                          microprojects by enforcing the following
measures:
- Development and enforcement of proper norms
and standards.
- Engagement of technical experts in the design
and supervision of works.
- Training of ASIF staff, implementing
agencies and contractors in relevant fields of
quality enhancement.
- Recruitment of foreign and local
advisors/supervisors in quality of works,
microproject procurement, MIS and cost
accounting, and compliance with the
Operational Manual.
- Annual procurement and technical reviews.
- Semi-Annual Bank Supervision mission and
mid-term reviews.
Communities are willing and able to         M         The communities' active participation at all
contribute, participate, and help sustain             stages of the microproject cycle will be
facilities.                                           achieved through the following measures:
- Designing cost effective microprojects.
- Strengthening local government capacity and
accountability with regard to asset management.
- Building effective partnerships arnongst the
key stakeholders at the local level.
- Ensuring good quality of works through
comprehensive programs in quality enhancement
and procurement.
- Developing effective training programs to
benefit local govermments and communities.
Public resources for operation and          H         The project's emphasis on institution building at
maintenance are maintained beyond the                the local level will be key to the sustainability of
project.                                              operation and maintenance beyond the project.
This will be achieved by providing an
operational framework which will progressively
develop the institutional capacity to plan,
finance and maintain facilities beyond the life of
the project.
- 26 -



Effective and sustainable capacity         M         The ASIF II will put primacy on building an
building efforts.                                    effective capacity building program through:
(i) The creation of a special Training Unit in the
ASIF, with trained staff who will be responsible
for organizing and implementing training at the
local level
(ii) The design of enhanced microproject training
programs benefiting the lAs and the local
contractors, based on the lessons learned from
the ASIF I Project.
(iii) The design of new training programs
focusing on local government in financial
management, budgeting, taxation and asset
management.
(iv) The design of new training programs to
benefit community-based organizations in areas
relevant to their activities and involvement in
sector specific microprojects.
Interference of the Government in the      M          The ASIF II has been established by a
daily operation of ASIF II would                      Government Decree as a Fund with a significant
compromise its autonomy, effectiveness                degree of autonomy to manage ASIF activities.
and credibility                                      The success of the ASIF I program in Armenia
has helped develop the Government's confidence
in the effective management of the SIF program.
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No apparent controversial aspects at this stage.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Borrower has approved the Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association.
*   The Borrower has opened a Project Account A in a bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association with an initial deposit equivalent to US$80,000.
-27 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Accounts/Audits
*   The Borrower shall have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
*   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such
statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
*   The Borrower shall: (i) open and maintain Project Account A in a bank acceptable to the Association
with an initial deposit of US$80,000; (ii) replenish said Project Account A not later than June 15 and
December 15 of each calendar year, so that the amount deposited in said Account A at the beginning of
each semi-annual period shall not be less than the equivalent of $80,000; and (iii) use said Project
Account A for financing the Borrower's contribution to the Project expenditures.
*   The Borrower shall open and maintain Project Account B in a commercial bank into which
contributions from the private sector are to be deposited and from which expenditures under each
Sponsored Microprojects are to be financed on a pari passu basis with the proceeds of the Credit.
Financial Management
e   The Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan, acceptable to the Association for the
strengthening of the financial management system in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June
30, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management
Reports, acceptable to the Association.
Management Aspects of the Project
-   The Borrower shall maintain ASIF with the structure, staff and other resources satisfactory to the
Association.
*   The Borrower shall ensure that ASIF's operations shall be carried out in accordance with the
procedures set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual.
*   The Borrower shall ensure that any significant modifications to the ASIF's statute or by laws and any
changes in the appointment of or to the terms of employment of the Executive Director and the
Department Heads shall be agreed upon with the Association.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
*   The Borrower shall cause the ASIF to submit annual work programs and budgets to the Association
for its review and approval.
*   The Borrower shall cause the ASIF to submit to the Association quarterly progress reports and annual
progress reports, on Project implementation, satisfactory to the Association, including assessments of
Microproject's cost effectiveness and regional targeting.
*   The Borrower shall ensure, through ASIF II, that Microprojects shall be identified, appraised,
approved, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the
Operational manual.
*   The Borrower will carry out, on an annual basis, under terms satisfactory to the Association: (i) an
independent technical and procurement review of implementation of Microprojects, focusing on the
adherence to guidelines and procedures set out in the Operational Manual, quality of works, training
- 28 -



and technical assistance programs and community related procurement; and (ii) an assessment of the
project impact on beneficiaries.
* The Borrowers shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to
the Association, on or about, January 15, 2003 a mid-term report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date.
* The Borrower shall review with the Association, by March 15, 2003, or such later date as the
Association shall request, the mid-term review report and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the matter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
OI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Base standard documents are available, but since projects are demand driven, bidding documents will have
to be completed, as per the nature of the microprojects.
-. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Caroline Mascar                   Mic  1 J. Rutkowski
Team Leader                       S  tor ManagerlD  tor             Country Manager/Director
- 29 -






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
Hiemrry of obfieves   .   -.-    cetors    I   Monito    & Evaluation    CitUcal Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Support social sustainability 1. Number of rehabilitated    I. Poverty assessments at the  1. Government commitment to
and poverty alleviation   social and economic        national level.            address poverty and
through improved coverage   infrastructure.          2. Household Surveys by the  strengthen social protection is
and targeting of social services 2. Percentage of urban and    Department of Statistics.  maintained.
to the poor.              rural population benefiting    3. Beneficiary Impact  2. Government commitment to
from the ASIF 11 rehabilitated Assessments of ASIF II.  provide counterpart funding
infrastructure.           4. Economic reports by the   for the ASIF 11 project.
3. Number of community    Bank and IMF.              3. Stable macroeconomic
members participating in  5. MIS generated data on cost performance and a good track
short-term employment during effectiveness of ASIF II  record in structural and sector
the project.              project.                   reforms are maintained.
4. Political stability is
maintained.
5. Increased donor
participation in social sector
activities that complement the
project.
-30-



Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. Improved basic social and   1. Percentage of population   1. ASIF II staff and MIS.  1. Poverty targeting strategy
economic infrastructure that  benefiting from improved  2. World Bank supervision    is adhered to.
can result in immediate    social/economic services to    missions.               2. Project incentives are
improvements of the living   total population targeted  3. Annual Beneficiary Impact enforced to maintain
conditions of the poor.    regions.                    Assessment.                communities commitment to
2. Total number and types of  4. Mid-Term Review Mission. the projects.
projects completed by                                  3. Infrastructure facilities are
communities.                                           maintained.
3. Average cost per                                    4. Projects approved are cost
beneficiary for completed                              effective.
projects.
2. Build partnerships and  1. Number of stakeholders that 1. Beneficiary Impact   1. A Community Outreach
stakeholder participation at   participated in the promotion  Assessments.        and Promotional Unit able to
the local level.           activities during project   2. Bank supervision missions. carry out its functions and
preparation.               3. Mid-Term Review mission, responsibilities effectively.
2. Feedback from key       4. Quarterly and Annual     2. Presence of Local
stakeholders on: (a) the   Progress Reports.           Government (LG)
effectiveness of coordination   5. Institutional Assessments  representatives and
efforts by the ASIF; (b) levels carried out by the ASIF at the community associations in the
of satisfaction regarding their local level.           lAs.
participation in the       6. MIS-generated information 3. Effective mechanisms are in
microproject cycle; and (c)    on stakeholder participation.  place to actively involve LG
levels of satisfaction regarding                       authorities and local
information dissemination                              community associations at all
efforts.                                               levels of the microproject
3. Number of projects jointly                          cycle.
prepared by LGs and
communities.
4. Number of meetings
convened between the local
government, communities,
and ASIF staff.
5. Number of meetings
convened between ASIF staff,
line ministries, NGOs, donor
agencies and Bank project
management units.
- 31 -



3. Enhance project ownership  1. Satisfactory reports by ASIF 1. Beneficiary Impact  1. Effective Appraisal.and
and sustainability.        follow-up engineers on     Assessments.                Follow-Up Units.
operations and maintenance of 2. Quarterly and Annual  2. Improved MP Appraisal
facilities.                progress reports.          reports (section on project
2. Satisfactory feedback by    3. MIS generated information sustainability).
communities on the quality of on training, and sustainability 3. Mobilization and use of
works.                     plans.                      community contribution in a
3. Number of plans prepared  4. Sustainability assessments  flexible manner.
jointly on raising local   carried out by the Follow-Up  4. Development of effective
contribution for project   Unit.                       systems for monitoring project
sustainability.                                        sustainability.
4. Number of contacts
documented by the Promotion
team on initiatives to include
line items in the local budget
for operation and maintenance
expenditures.
5. The level of community
contributions to microproject
financing.
6. Feedback from local
authorities and communities
on project ownership and
maintenance issues during
project implementation.
7. Number of workshops and
seminars convened to discuss
operation and maintenance
issues.
- 32 -



4. Capacity building at the   1. Timely and effective       1. Technical assessments of    1. Effective Training and
local level focusing on      implementation of training    benefits and improved          Technical Assistance Unit to
decentralized planning and    programs responding to       performance resulting from    handle the coordination,
management systems.          changing needs.               training programs.            implementation and
2. MIS generated reports      2. Post evaluation of the     supervision of the project's
providing information on the  maintenance of facilities    training and TA activities.
projecf s training activities  financed under the project.    2. Training modules and plans
including training            3. Quarterly reporting on     regularly updated to meet the
expenditures, profiles on     training activities to provide   changing demands.
participants and training     the status of activities, issues,  3 Coordination of activities
firms.                        and revisions in the training   with other agencies on
3. Number of training         plan.                        implementing capacity
programs and trained          4. Beneficiary Impact         building programs at the local
beneficiaries in the fields   Assessments.                 level.
described in the ASIF II      5. MIS generated reports on
Training Program (see Annex capacity building.
17)
4. Number of workshops at the
local level on management
and maintenance issues.
5. Feedback from LG and
communities on the
effectiveness of the project's
capacity training efforts.
5. Promote private sector     1. Number of contractors that  1. Beneficiary impact        1. Build from the training base
development                  have participated in the      assessment.                   developed under the ASIF I
project's small works         2. Progress reports.          project, benefiting contractors.
activities.                   3. MIS generated information  2. Effective training carried
2. Satisfactory ratings from  on contractors and            out in the ASIF 11 to local
contractors on training       investments at the local level. contractors.
received from ASIF.
3. Number of contractors that
have participated in more than
one microproject.
4. Amount of community
employment generated by
microprojects.
- 33 -



Key Performance
i    chof2beives                  Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Rehabilitated and       1. Number of completed     1. Annual Beneficiary Impact 1. Local Governments and
maintained infrastructure  rehabilitated infrastructure    Assessments            established community
facilities in rural and urban   facilities, total and per  2. Quarterly and Annual  associations are willing to
areas.                     microproject type.         Progress Reports.           participate and to sustain
2. Number of newly         3. Progress reports from the   facilities.
constructed infrastructure  Quality of Works Advisor to  2. Government ensures budget
facilities, total and per  the ASIF.                   for maintenance of
microproject type.         4. Mid-term reports        rehabilitated facilities.
3. Number of completed     5. Annual Procurement and   3. Community members are
rehabilitated school heating   Technical Audit Reports.  willing to provide
systems.                   6. Annual Audit Reports.    contributions to the
4. Number of school furniture 7. Annual Action Plans and   microproject costs.
microprojects.             Budgets.                    4. Qualified private
5. Amount of local                                     contractors are willing to
contribution raised.                                  participate.
2. Increased participation and  I. Number of IA members    Same as above          1. Effective performance by
capacity of lAs to manage    that have participated in                           the Training and Coordination
microprojects.             training.                                              Unit.
2. Number of training                                  2. Effective training carried
modules designed for lAs.                              out by the ASIF technical
3. Number of institutional                             staff.
assessments carried out at the                         3. Communities willing to
local level.                                           participate in the training
4. Number of capacity needs                           programs.
assessments carried out at the
local level.
5. Number of lAs that have
participated in the ASIF I
project.
3. Increased capacity of local  1. Number of contractors that Same as above       1. Effective training of
contractors to compete in the  have received training.                            contractors carried out under
local construction industry.   2. Number of bid-conferences                       the project.
carried out under the project.                         2. Willingness of contractors
3. Number of contractors                              to participate in training
participating under ASIF II                            program.
who have participated under                            3. Availability of qualified
ASIF I project.                                        contractors to participate in
training programs.
4. Short-term employment    1. Number ofjobs generated   Same as above            1. Availability of local labor.
created at the local level.    from the MPs at the                                2. Flexibility in ASIF
community level.                                       procedures to use labor as part
2. Percentage of the labor                             of community contributions.
component in microproject
cost.
- 34 -



5. Improved capacity of local  1. Number of local      Same as above              1. Effective training of local
governments and communities governments and communities                           governments and communities
in decentralized planning and trained.                                            carried out under the project.
management systems.        2. Number of training                                  2. Willingness of local groups
modules developed.                                     to participate in training
3. Number of local firms that                          program.
have carried out the training.                         3. Availability of firms to
4. Number of new                                       carry out the training.
community-based
associations, as a result of
training received.
6. Improved capacity of ASIF  1. Number of ASIF staff who  Same as above          1. Availability of qualified
staff to manage and        have participated in training.                         firm to carry out the training
administer ASIF operations.  2. Number of ASIF staff who                          in the ASIF.
have been promoted as a result                         2. No turn overs of key staff in
of training received.                                 the ASIF.
3. Length of time spent by                             3. Willingness if ASIF staff to
ASIF staff under each                                  participate in training
microproject cycle for a                               programs.
particular microproject type.
4. Number of microprojects
appraised, under
implementation and
completed by year under the
ASIF II project, as compared
to the ASIF I.
- 35 -



_________Of                                         rpu -  irng 8 iyalqafwonw
Project Components i      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Rehabilitation of Small-Scale  US$24.11 million      - Annual Beneficiary impact  The ASIF II will continue
infrastructure:                                      assessments                strong supervision,
- Financing of MPs to support                       - Quarterly and annual     accounting, auditing,
the Rehabilitation of                                progress reports.         independent reviews.
Small-Scale Infrastructure.                          - Progress reports from
- Financing of school                               foreign and local
furniture.                                           advisors/supervisors.
- Capacity building and TA to                        - Mid-term reports
lAs and contractors.                                 - Annual Procurement and
- Financing of consulting                            Technical Audit Reports.
services for microproject                            - Annual Audit Reports.
design and supervision.                              - Annual Action Plans and
Budgets.
Local-Level Institutional  US$1.06 million           Same as above              The ASIF will forge and
Strengthening:                                                                  strengthen institutions at the
- Capacity building and                                                         local level which can serve as
technical assistance to local                                                   effective vehicles for
governments.                                                                    community empowerment.
- Capacity building and TA to
community-based
organizations.
Institutional Support to the    US$4.15 million      Same as above              The continuation of key staff
ASIF:                                                                           in the ASIF who have
- Capacity building and TA to                                                   benefited from the training
ASIF staff.                                                                     provided under the ASIF I
- Financing of special studies,                                                 project.
assessments, and reviews.
- Financing of vehicles and
equipment.
- Support to general
administration and
management of the project.
- Financing of annual
procurement, technical and
financial audits.
-36 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 11
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$24.11 million
I. Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure: Building upon the work carried out under the ASIF I
project, the ASIF II project will rehabilitate basic social and economic infrastructure at the local level
through the financing of microprojects. To ensure the sustainability of project outcomes, the ASIF II
project will intensify institution building at the local level. Accordingly, the ASIF II project will fnance a
comprehensive capacity building and technical assistance program benefiting implementing agencies, local
governments, contractors and ASIF staff.
Financing of Microprojects to Support the Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure
Sub-Component: The microproject types to be proposed and carried out by Implementing Agencies will
include: kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, special schools for disabled children, art, music and
sports schools, children's playground in urban areas, local health posts, water supply systems, sewage and
sanitation systems and irrigation works. The project will also finance: (i) microprojects involving the
rehabilitation or upgrading of school heating systems to better assure school attendance during the cold
winter months; and (ii) school furniture (desks, chairs, blackboards, etc.). The maximum size of the
microproject will be US$150,000. The only exception to this limit will be a ceiling of US$200,000 for new
school construction including heating systems. In the case of school furniture, the total allocation will be
set at a maximum of US$1.5 million. The average size of microprojects, other than heating systems is
estimated at US$90,000, while that for school heating systems is estimated at US$40,000. In addition, this
sub-component will finance consultant services for microproject design and supervision to assure the good
quality of works. The effective mechanism of mandatory community contributions adopted under the ASIF
I project will be maintained under the ASIF II. The community contribution will be set at 10 percent of the
cost of microprojects, with a minimum of 5 percent for poor communities, based on an assessment of
poverty and capacity to pay. ASIF operating procedures and microproject appraisal criteria are elaborated
in the Operational Manual.
Capacity Building and Technical Assistance to Implementing Agencies and Local Contractors
Sub-Component: The ASIF II project will intensify the capacity building efforts started under the ASIF I
benefiting the lAs and the local contractors. On-the-job training will be provided to Implementing Agencies
in the areas covering: the preparation, design, procurement, implementation and maintenance of
Microprojects. Specific topics to be covered under the training program, will include: (a) project
identification and formulation; (b) project costing and accounting, (c) competitive bidding procedures; (d)
mobilization of community involvement in construction and maintenance activities, (e) management of
partnerships with LGs, NGOs and other entities, (f) quality control, and (g) monitoring and evaluation.
On-the-job training will also be provided to contractors in competitive bidding procedures and technical
standards. Additional training needs will be assessed during the course of project implementation, which
may require special training to be provided by local and/or foreign trainers. Special workshops and
seminars will be organized at the local level to discuss issues of interest to communities regarding the
microproject cycle.
Project Component 2 - US$1.06 million
II. Local-Level Institution Building: This component will complement the microproject component
enabling local level institutions to address the needs and priorities for local development through a
comprehensive capacity building program. Local governments and community-based associations will be
- 37 -



targeted in this component with the objectives of strengthening partnerships between them and enhancing
their capacities for greater effectiveness in service delivery. The training programs will focus initially on
specific areas identified during project preparation in support of local governments at the city and village
levels as well as school officials and school council members involved in micoprojects. At a later stage,
training and technical assistance programs will be developed in an evolving manner based on emerging
needs of the local institutions that have participated in microproject activities. The training programs will
be closely linked to the microproject cycle and will be based on practical approaches such as on-the-job
training and acquisition of relevant technical skills. Such an approach will ensure the commitment and
engagement of local participants in microproject activities. The program will provide foreign and local
technical assistance and training, as well as workshops and seminars. Local expertise will be used to the
maximum extent possible with existing relevant programs provided by organizations such as the National
Finance Association, UNDP, and Urban Institute for International Activities Center that are currently
engaged in such training activities.
Local Government Training Sub-Component: Local governments at the city level (city councils,
mayors) and at the community level (village councils, mayors) will receive training from both indigenous
and international experts in such functions as: financial management, budgeting, taxation and asset
management. The training will support local governments to: (i) develop, plan and manage their own
budgets; (ii) gain a better understanding of the basic concepts and applications of property tax, land tax,
duties and fees, and equalization; and (iii) acquire a basic knowledge of asset management covering
inventory monitoring, operation and maintenance of assets, and planning of future investments. This
training will be offered to local governments in each of the nine marzes in Annenia, excluding the Lori
marz where UNDP is involved in similar training. A typical training session will benefit 40 participants at
a time over a period of three weeks conducted at the marz level. There would be four to five sessions
conducted in each marz depending on its size. The phasing of these training sessions will precede
microproject promotion activities in each marz.
Community-Based Training Sub-Component: Community-based organizations (school councils,
WvNUAs,) and community members involved in the microprojects will receive technical assistance and
training in areas relevant to their activities and involvement in sector specific microprojects. The initial
phase of this program, will focus on school microprojects. Technical assistance and training will be
provided by qualified experts to support the Government's decentralized school governance agenda directed
at: (i) school principals in the areas of leadership and management, school legislation and regulation; (ii)
school accountants in the areas of financial management and accounting; and (iii) school council members
in the formation and operation of school councils. Such training programs will be conducted at different
stages of each school microproject cycle. At a later stage, the program may include other sector specific
microprojects (i.e. water, primary health care centers). Such programs will be designed to support the
Governments development agenda in these sectors depending on the scope and depth of such programs,
specific needs and resources required.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.15 million
Institutional Support to the ASIF: This component will support the Project Management Unit through
the provision of limited office equipment (computers, software, etc.) vehicles, salaries, operating costs such
as communications, local travel, utilities, printing and publication, office supplies, fuel, vehicle insurance
and inspection, vehicle maintenance and repair, project audits, training and technical assistance, and
monitoring and evaluation.
- 38 -



Capacity Building and Technical Assistance to ASIF staff Sub-Component: This sub-component will
finance technical assistance and training to ASIF staff. Specifically, technical services of foreign and local
advisors/supervisors will be financed in the areas of quality of works, procurement, MIS and cost
accounting systems, and compliance with the Operational Manual. Training will be provided to the ASIF
staff on a range of topics identified on the basis of perceived needs during ASIF I implementation and ASIF
II preparation. Such training will cover participatory community development, institutional assessment,
capacity needs assessment, quality of works, operations and maintenance, project supervision, and
environmental standards. Initially, an intensified training program, to be financed under the ASIF II
PHRD, will be carried out to enhance the capacity of ASIF II technical staff and generate outputs at the
required quality. The training will focus specifically on building the required capacity of staff in the newly
created Institutional Support Department to manage their functions and responsibilities in community
outreach and promotion activities, training and technical assistance coordination, and monitoring and
evaluation. Concurrently, training will also be carried out in each Unit under the Microproject and
Procurement departments covering: (i) Microproject Preparation with special focus on project
identification, design, and generation of community resources; (ii) Microproject Appraisal focusing on
effective technical designs, and procurement procedures; and (iii) Microproject Supervision focusing on
quality of works, construction technology and improved supervision and monitoring techniques. Study
tours and workshops will also be organized under this component.
-39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 11
Lo..aL      Forgn        >Total
-- -sProeCst BY Co0 pnaern t            US $miflion   US $miuicon   uS Smon
ASIF Microprojects                                      18.68         0.00         18.68
Institutional Strengthening of Cormnunities              0.48         0.42          0.90
Institutional Support to ASIF                            2.48          1.12         3.60
Total Baseline Cost                                     21.64          1.54        23.18
Physical Contingencies                                  1.71         0.09          1.80
Price Contingencies                                     4.26         0.08          4.34
Total Project Costs             27.61         1.71        29.32
Total Financing Required             27.61         1.71        29.32
Local       Foeign        ToB 
Proec Cost By Categoory             -Ul VS t$iin                   G illton
Goods                                                      1.57          0.27         1.84
Works                                                     20.90          0.00        20.90
Services                                                   1.67          0.81         2.48
Training                                                   0.68          0.63         1.31
Studies                                                    0.12          0.00         0.12
Incremental Operating Costs                                2.67          0.00         2.67
Total Project Costs    27.61          1.71        29.32
Total Financing Required    27.61           1.71        29.32
-40 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
I. Introduction
1.    The objective of this annex is to examine the cost effectiveness of the ASIF II Project as a poverty
alleviation mechanism. Given the demand driven nature of the project -- which responds to microproject
proposals from poor communities during the life of the project -- traditional methods of cost-benefit
analysis were not applied ex-ante. Instead, the approach was to examine: (i) the project rationale within
the broader context of national development objectives, government strategy, and the Bank's country
assistance strategy and programs; and (ii) the cost effectiveness of microprojects completed under ASIF I
compared with those completed under traditional govemnment programs, and NGO programs. The
presentation in this annex is based on the findings of a cost effectiveness analysis carried out as part of
project preparation.
Summary of benefits and costs:
2.     The ASIF II Project is expected to generate far-reaching benefits to a large number of low income
communities, as judged from the experience of the ongoing ASIF I Project. With a modest project size of
US$20 million, ASIF I has improved living conditions of many low income communities by supporting
basic small-scale social and economic infrastructure rehabilitation (schools, potable water supply, clinics,
irrigation systems). Building upon this experience, the ASIF II Project with an investment of US$29.32
million will respond to community demands for priority social needs and is expected to produce tangible
benefits to a large number of poor communities in a cost effective manner provided that the same standards
of technical and cost efficiency are maintained or improved. While a variety of microprojects are expected
to be financed under ASIF II, the majority of these are expected to:
*   upgrade school buildings to help implement basic education programs;
*   provide school heating to enable better attendance during the winter months;
*   improve water supply to rural and urban communities;
*   rehabilitate irrigation works to support agriculture, and thereby raise rural incomes; and
*   rehabilitate health clinics to support health services at the community level.
3.     The ASIF II project will generate short-term employment for the poor, at least through the
construction phase of a microproject. It will also stimulate the development of the local construction
industry through introducing competitive procurement and encouraging small-scale contracting firms.
More importantly, through the use of participatory mechanisms and its demand-driven approach,
significant qualitative benefits from the ASIF II project will be the increased sense of ownership, trust and
social cohesion in many communities.
Main Assumptions:
4.     The main assumptions in formulating the project are as follows:
(i) the project is consistent with Armenia's development strategy;
(ii) the microprojects under ASIF II will be more cost effective than those under altemative
government or NGO supported projects;
(iii) the unit costs of construction and impact upon communities will be more favorable than under
- 41 -



alternative projects; and
(iv) microprojects will be selected according to criteria described in the Operational Manual, which
integrate simple quantitative economic analysis, consistent with the size of the microproject, cost
per beneficiary, and local capacity.
5.     The ASIF II Project and Development Strategy. Since 1996, the Government has taken some
important actions to address poverty and strengthen social protection. It introduced comprehensive
structural reforms in the social sectors (social assistance, social insurance, health and education). Given
Armenia's limited fiscal resources, the core of the Government's reform in social assistance is to improve
targeting and outreach.
6.     The ASIF project has been an important tool for the Armenian Government in poverty alleviation.
It forms an integral component of the Government's goal to improve accessibility, sustainability and quality
of social services provided to the poor. It has been effective in carrying out this mandate by financing the
construction and rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure, to complement the work of other line
ministries. The ASIF has also been crucial in strengthening social capital and providing short-term
employment opportunities to the low income groups.
7.     The objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) match the Government's reform
priorities and are to assist the Government of Armenia to consolidate the recovery of economic growth
through rapid development of the private sector and to ensure the social sustainability of the reform
process. The issues of social sustainability and poverty alleviation are pursued in the CAS through the
strengthening of the social safety nets, and through improvements in the quality of and access to basic
health and education services.
8.     The proposed ASIF II Project would support the CAS objective to promote a long-term social
sustainability and stability of the Armenian economy and to reduce the level of poverty by alleviating
priority infrastructure bottlenecks in the water supply! irrigation sectors, improving access to education
through rehabilitation and construction of schools, building and strengthening social capital and social
safety nets, and contributing to the private sector development by supporting small scale contracting and
design industry.
9.     The proposed ASIF II Project is also consistent with the main findings and recommendations of the
Bank Economic and Sector Work (ESW). Thus the Public Expenditure Review recommends that public
investments should focus on rehabilitating only purely public goods, and that a clear prioritization of these
goods is necessary. The Bank's 1996 Poverty Assessment found that regional public works programs, such
as ASIF, can provide short-term employment with poverty reducing effects.
10.    Cost Effectiveness. The analysis showed the costs of school rehabilitation and construction under
ASIF to be lower than those carried out by the Government; the result was the same in the case of irrigation
projects. In potable water projects, ASIF microproject costs were higher than those carried out by NGOs,
primarily due to the more complex technical nature and larger size of ASIF projects. However, the cost per
beneficiary was lower in ASIF urban projects than in those financed by NGOs. Thus, the analysis has
suggested that the proposed ASIF II project will be a cost-effective means of meeting the social
infrastructure needs of the poor, provided the same standards of technical and economic efficiency are
maintained, or further improved. Cost-effectiveness is expected to improve since technical standards will
benefit from the quality of works enhancement program, while the implementation of a cost accounting
system will help improve cost efficiency.
-42 -



Cost-effectiveness indicators:
11.   The main indicators used for project monitoring will be: (a) the average cost per each type of
microproject; and (b) impact and efficiency indicators which are listed below:
Microprojects                     Indicators
Potable Water                     Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit of pipe
(Urban and Rural)                 length.
Irrigation                         Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit of pipe length,
Cost per Irrigated hectare.
School Construction/Rehab.        Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area.
12.   The average full cost per microproject, including physical and price contingencies, is currently
estimated at approximately US$90,000. Norms for each type of microproject as well as for impact and
efficiency indicators will need to be developed by ASIF. These should be developed on the basis of ASIF I
cost indicators, which may be used as benchmarks before factoring in price inflation and likely increased
size and scope of future microprojects. Results of the ASIF I cost effectiveness analysis are presented
below, as a guide for developing these benchmarks.
13.    Since the majority of the completed ASIF microprojects and archived community proposals relate
to rehabilitation of infrastructure in the education, water supply and irrigation sectors, the study examined
the costs of a sample of completed microprojects only in these three sectors. The costs per microproject in
this sample are relatively low (compared to estimates under ASIF II), reflecting somewhat simpler
microprojects carried out during the early stages of ASIF I. The average costs of microprojects completed
in these sectors are shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Average Costs of Completed ASIF Microprojects by Type
Microproject type       Number   Total              Average
Investment       Cost
US$              US$
Schools                 65        3,147,284         48,420
Potable Water           57         2,174,012        38,141
Irrigation              24         1,248,124        52,005
14.    For the purpose of comparison, microprojects were chosen both from govemrnent funded/managed
programs as well as those funded by intemational donors (non-Bank-funded) and managed by NGOs. The
choice of the altematives was obviously limited by the availability of relevant development programs in
Armenia. The selected NGOs are the only existing agencies involved in the rehabilitation of social
infrastructure in the country.
- 43 -



15.   The ASIF invests on average almost three times more in water supply infrastructure than the
NGOs. The availability of significant investment resources allows the ASIF to undertake big and often
costly microprojects (e.g., rehabilitation of large rural water networks; new construction) which typically
do not fit into the selection criteria of many other development agencies in Armenia. In the absence of such
investments, many communities would have been deprived of this basic necessity to improve their living
standards. In the irrigation sector, the Government (supported by the Bank) invests much more than the
ASIF; the number of government funded microprojects is also much bigger. A larger total irrigated area
improved as a result of these microprojects would have much stronger development impact.
16.    The degree of cost-efficiency and effectiveness of altematives can significantly vary depending on
the nature, mandate and modus-operandi of an organization. For instance, project cost comparisons are
not sufficient to reveal the principal differences among the demand-driven (ASIF, NGOs) and
supply-driven (govermment) agencies in terms of their efficacy and impact. Other important factors that
have implications in terms of costs and effects are the use of participatory vs. centralized management,
accountability and transparency in the management of resources, institutional capabilities, and use of
innovative approaches.
17.   Based on the above analysis, unit cost and cost per beneficiary indicators will be used to monitor
the cost efficiency and the cost-effectiveness of the ASIF II project. With a view to ensuring the cost
effectiveness of ASIF II, a cost accounting system will be introduced and implemented. The framework for
such a system is set out in Annex 4a.
18.    Speed of Construction. Another important dimension of ASIF microprojects relates to the speed
of getting results on the ground. The cost-effectiveness analysis showed that ASIF construction is speedier
relative to its comparators in school rehabilitation, but slower in the case of potable water and irrigation
projects. This mixed picture arises primarily from: (a) differences in sizes of microprojects executed by
comparators; and (b) numerous change orders under ASIF construction which leads to long delays. The
latter issue will be addressed under ASIF II.
19.    Future of the Armenia SIF. Social funds are not only effective tools for emergency assistance,
but can also serve as medium-term instruments for community development, sustainable delivery of
services to the poor and social and economic development in general. The ASIF II project can be very
effective in supporting the government in various social assistance programs and piloting innovative
poverty and development interventions. This would require: (i) strong political will to sustain the SIF over
the medium term; and (ii) continued support from extemal donors.
- 44 -



ANNEX 4a
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
A FRAMEWORK FOR COST ACCOUNTING
Objective
1.    The main objective of the proposed cost accounting system is to provide the ASIF Management
with a well organized information system for the proposed ASIF II project to ensure greater cost
effectiveness in the use of public funds in meeting the basic social and economic infrastructure needs of the
poor. Although the present Management Infornation System (MIS) has a wealth of cost data, further work
needs to be done to analyze and present such data in a more explicit form for use by ASIF Management on
a quarterly basis. In specific terms the objectives of such a reporting format would be to:
*   provide information on the full cost of projects, including ASIF overheads, more explicitly;
*   help monitor the cost of providing basic social infrastructure for the poor;
*   develop a framework for implementing cost efficiency measures, and
i  provide a basis for formulating budgets for future years.
2.     Such a framework should include: (i) a full composition of the direct costs of microprojects; (ii) an
analysis of overhead expenditures; (iii) a more realistic allocation of overhead costs across microprojects,
reflecting the cost of promotion, appraisal and supervision; and (iv) the unit costs of providing social
infrastructure (cost per microproject, cost per beneficiary, cost per unit length of pipeline rehabilitated
etc.). These are described below, together with some suggestions on how such a system might be
incorporated into the MIS, and on implementing the system witiin ASIF.
3.     The discussion below is presented in three modules in the following sequence since the analysis in
the second and third module are dependent on those of the preceding ones:
*   the economic analysis module;
- the management information module; and
*   the social impact module.
Measuring the Economic Impact -Analysis of Direct Costs
4.     The principal aim of the analysis of direct costs of microprojects would be to measure their impact
on the Armenian economy. The ASIF's MIS already has information on the breakdown of the direct cost
of each microproject into labor, materials and services (mainly equipment services). The labor component,
when aggregated over all the microprojects of ASIF II will provide a measure of its employment impact
Likewise, the aggregation of local material costs (when broken down into foreign and local components)
will provide an estimate of the demand created for local materials by ASIF II. At the same time the
aggregation of foreign costs will provide a measure of the foreign exchange impact. Finally, the
aggregation of the service component will indicate the demand for local services created by ASIF II.
5.     The direct cost analysis of microprojects may be presented in the quarterly cost statement in the
following format:
-45 -



(i) direct cost analysis of ASIF II microprojects completed as of the end of the quarter, classified
by typology; and
(ii) the direct cost analysis of the totality of microprojects completed at the end of the quarter.
6.      For the purpose of illustration, the direct cost analysis of in (i) above, using ASIF I project data
will feature, for example, as follows:
Figure 1: Direct Cost Analysis of ASIF Microprojects by Typology
(as of end September 1999)
Calculated Budgets
$ 60,00Q
aMstsdlt4  $19,509  535JSSS  $23754  $38 757  $23,688  SI?.539  S1I,452  $28,812  $26i,$88  $19A7  $2 ,753  $925
Managing the Cost of Operations --Analysis of Overhead Expenditure
7.      At present, ASIF operating (overhead) cost statements are prepared on a monthly basis classified
by major expenditure categories (salary, transport, communications, utilities, of fice supplies, etc.). Since
total operating costs have averaged about 10 percent of total disbursements per year on microprojects
since the start of the ongoing ASIF project, this percentage is applied, across the board, to each
microproject as overhead costs. However, this procedure does not capture the variations in resource use
across microprojects; some complex microprojects will need more resources for promotion, appraisal and
supervision over long periods of time, while other simpler projects may require much less. There is, thus, a
need to analyze overhead expenditures in greater detail to provide a more realistic estimates of direct
overheads i.e. resources used in promotion, appraisal, and supervision, and indirect overheads i.e. other
common overheads chargeable to individual projects. These estimates could then be used to calculate the
full cost of microprojects including overheads. A two step process is proposed:
- 46 -



(i) Introduce a functional classification of expenditure. Since the largest ASIF operating
expenditure category is salaries (82 percent), and since the engineering functions determine the
pattern of resource use, adopt promotion, appraisal, and supervision as the main "cost centers".
Time spent by engineers (based on time recording at the end of each month) together with travel
costs will provide the basis for estimating the value of engineering services spent on each of these
functions or cost centers. These costs will add up to direct overheads. All other operating costs
i.e. indirect overheads could then be assigned to these cost centers on a proportionate basis. Such
a functional classification will provide ASIF Management and the Bank with a clearer picture of
how resources are being spent.
(ii) Since project codes already exist, time recording by engineers at the end of each month should
be made against each of the current microprojects. Time recorded against each microproject will
then provide the basis for estirnating the overhead cost of each microproject. A typical time sheet
may have the following format:
Figure 2: Format for a Time Sheet
Function:            Promotion      Appraisal     Supervision
Microproiects                       (Hours)
Project A
Project B
Project C
Etc.
8.     The above analysis, which is essentially a planning, management, and a monitoring tool, could
provide some options to improving cost effectiveness. For example, time trends in functional classification
may signal the need for closer attention to a particular cost center, if there is an inordinate increase in costs.
Likewise, historical trends in cost of microprojects can provide useful norns for future project selection,
and the estimated cost of a project, compared against norms can trigger the need for re-design.
Assessing the Cost Effectiveness of Microprojects in Meeting Social Needs
9.     The main objective of the analysis is to monitor the cost effectiveness in providing social
infrastructure to the poor, on a quarterly basis. Following the recently completed Cost Effectiveness study,
and based on the information already available in the appraisal reports and the MIS, the following
indicators can be presented:
Microprojects                      Indicators
Potable Water                      Cost per beneficiary,
Urban and Rural                    Cost per unit of length.
Irrigation                         Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit length,
Cost per Irrigated ha.
-47 -



School Construction/              Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area.
Rehabilitation
10.   The above indicators if assembled on a budgeted and actual basis, and on a quarterly and
cumulative basis, will provide the basis for analyzing trends, and for comparing with indicators from
government and NGO construction.
Integrating with the MIS
II.   Upgrading of MIS supported by the proposed ASIF 11 project will provide an opportunity to
integrate a cost accounting module in MIS. The detailed design of this module should include a clear format
for presentation of cost accounting information to ASIF Management. This presentation need not follow
the sequential order in paragraph 3 above. Given the nature of the proposed ASIF II project, it would be
more appropriate to present the social impact section first, followed by the sections on econornic impact
and management information systems.
Implementing the System
12.   Clear instructions from ASIF Management will be essential for implementing procedures required
for the cost accounting system. Such procedures should include:
* filling of time sheets by all staff at the end of each month;
* ensuring by the heads of departments that time sheets are filled at the end of each month;
v entering in the MIS, time sheet information converted to financial values based on respective salary
costs of staff members;
* authorization of local travel by the Director or his Deputy. Such travel requests should indicate the
purpose of travel and an estimated cost;
v entering of travel requests in MIS;
* keeping track of actual expenditures in relation to estimates by the Accounting Department;
* procedures to ensure cost effectiveness; and
*   surveillance by the Accounting Department of all cost information and reporting to Management of
major deviations from estimates.
Reporting Requirements
13.    The quarterly progress reports sent to the World Bank should contain cost statements for the
relevant quarter. Such a report will provide Bank staff with a clearer picture on how IDA funds are being
used, and progress in implementing cost efficiency measures.
Concluding Comments
14.   Implementing the cost accounting system will require the full cooperation of all ASIF staff. It
would therefore be important for ASIF Management to widely disseminate the purpose and the scope of the
cost accounting system. Full implementation of the system will, no doubt, demonstrate ASIF's
commitment to meeting the social and economic infrastructure needs of the of the poor in the most cost
effective manner.
-48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
Years Ending
12131
Year I     Year 2     Year 3  J Year 4  1 Year 5  L Year 6  1 Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.0        4.8         5.0        5.2        5.3        5.3        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.2        0.5        0.5         0.5        0.5        0.5       0.0
Total Project Costs           1.2         5.3        5.5        5.7        5.8        5.8        0.0
Total Financing               1.2         5.3        5.5        5.7        5.8        5.8        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    1.0        3.6        3.7        3.7        4.0        4.0        0.0
Government                  0.1        0.2        0.3         0.3       0.3        0.2        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.1        0.6        0.7         0.7        0.5       0.5        0.0
Communities                 0.0        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.5        0.4         0.6        0.6       0.7        0.0
Total Project Financing       1.2        5.3        5.5        5.7        5.8        5.8        0.0
Main assumptions:
-49-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 11
Procurement
Civil works and goods under the IDA financed components of this project will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit published in
January 1995 including all revisions up to January 1999. Contracts for Consulting Services required
for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January
1999. Project activities not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the national
regulations or the co-financing institutions' procurement regulations. The project elements, their
estimated cost and procurement methods, are summnarized in Table A. Other procurement infornation,
including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of GNP and the
Bank's review process is presented in Tables B 1 and B2.
1. Civil Works
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for microprojects estimated to cost less
than US$150,000 per contract, with the only exception to this limit to be US$200,000 for new school
construction that includes heating systems, up to an aggregate contract amount US$16.65 million
(Bank financing US$12.00 million). The average cost of all microprojects has been estimated at
US$79,000 equivalent. Minor works (MW) procedures will be used for contracts for microprojects
estimated to cost less than US$30,000, up to an aggregate contract amount US$2.94 million (Bank
financing US$2.16 million), will be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank and the relevant drawings. The contract shall be awarded to the
lowest evaluated bidder. Bank's Regional SBDs and Evaluation forms will be used. Government
entities are ineligible to participate in Bank financed contracts unless they meet the criteria under the
Bank guidelines that they are legally and financially autonomous.
2. Goods
Goods (approximately US$1.83 million) consisting of vehicles, furniture, computer and office
equipment as well as training materials and supplies will be grouped to the extent possible and
considering project objectives, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following
methods of procurement will be followed:
(i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent for a total amount of US$0.14 million for the procurement of
vehicles.
(ii) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for the procurement of
furniture and related teaching aids for contracts under US$100,000 equivalent, for an
aggregate amount of US$1.30 million. Under these procedures the Bids will be advertised
nationally in newspapers of wide circulation.
- 50 -



(ii) International Shopping (IS). These procedures, by obtaining at least three quotations
from two different countries, will be used for the purchase of office and computer
equipment, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract for an aggregated amount
of US$0.13 million.
(iii) National Shopping (NS). These procedures, by obtaining at least three quotations from
national firms, will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent
up to an aggregate of US$0.90 million. This amount includes national shopping for
operating costs' small contracts throughout the life of the project.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services and training will be packaged to combine related skills and services,
in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the number of contracts
to be managed by the PIU. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i) Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for contracting
consultant services relating to architectural and engineering (A&E) services for
microproject design and construction supervision as well as for technical assistance and
training for local governmental entities. Aggregate amount US$1.82 million equivalent
(includes Non-Bank financed amount).
(ii) Consultant Qualification procedures will be used for contracting services related to social
sector training, training for accountants and contractors, impact assessment studies and
technical advisors, for an aggregated amount of US$0.77 million (includes NBF).
(iii) Least Cost Selection procedures will be used for auditing services for yearly financial as
well as procurement audits and technical reviews throughout the life of the project.
Aggregate amount is estimated to be US$0.19 million equivalent.
(iv) Fixed Budget Selection procedures will be used for services for A&E design for
on-demand microprojects, for an aggregate amount of US$0.25 million.
(iv) Individual Consultants will be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines.
Individual consultants will be used for technical advise for microprojects (MIS and
procurement), technical assistance related to training, and studies, for an aggregate amount
of US$0.35 million (includes NBF). Consultants will be selected based on individual's
qualification and with Bank's prior approval.
(v) Single source procedures will be used for school principals and school councils' training
and specialized studies, for an aggregated amount of US$0.29 million (includes NBF).
In the case of school training, it is proposed to engage the services of the Center for Education Reforms
(CER). This Center is a government owned training institute under the Ministry of Education. This Center
is unique and exceptional in nature in school capacity enhancement, particularly in the areas of school
principal training and school council formation. This training was developed and carried out by the CER
under a contract fnanced by the Bank's assisted Education Project in Armenia. It was designed to support
the Government's education reform agenda to provide autonomy to schools established under the Law on
Education. The ASIF II project aims to support this decentralized school governance arrangement by
working closely with and building the capacity of schools that have registered functioning school councils
and those that are participating in the school-based management pilot program. The proposed ASIF II
project will support this local training institution drawing from the valuable and unique experience gained
- 51 -



by the Center in school training.
4.     Operating Costs
ASIF PIU staff salaries, office materials and supplies, communication expenses and fuel expenses would
be financed under the Credit for the duration of the project (tJS$2.08 million) while office rent (US$0.5
million) would be provided by the Govenmment as contribution to overall operating expenses (US$2.58
million).
5.     Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the "Development Business" around the period
of Loan Negotiations and will be annually updated. For large-value consultants contracts, invitation for
bids will be advertised in the Development Business and national gazette, and in the case of NCB, in a
major local news paper (in the national language).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Exper4aue Cat9gory             IC                                     - - B.F.         Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00          16.25          2.87           1.31          20.43
(0.00)        (11.65)        (2.05)         (0.00)        (13.70)
2. Goods                            0.14           1.30          0.40           0.00           1.84
(0.14)         (1.30)        (0.38)         (0.00)         (1.82)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           1.90          2.00           3.90
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.90)         (0.00)        (1.90)
4. Incremental Operating            0.00           0.00           2.08          0.50           2.58
Costs
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.08)         (0.00)         (2.08)
5. PPF Reimbursement                0.00           0.40           0.17          0.00           0.57
(0.00)         (0.34)        (0.16)         (0.00)         (0.50)
Total                            0.14           17.95          7.42          3.81           29.32
(0.14)        (13.29)        (6.57)         (0.00)        (20.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2i Includes civil works to be procured as minor works; goods to be procured through international and
national shopping; consulting services, training and studies to be contracted through selection procedures
of QCBS, CQ, fixed budget, least cost and single-source; and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project, including ASIF PIU staff salaries, office supplies, communications costs and office
maintenance and utilities.
- 52 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
6. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of civil works, goods and services for the project will be
carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table B1), which will be updated if
necessary and included in the progress reports for Bank review.
(a)       Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation,
reconmmendation of award and contract will be conducted for all ICB procedures and the first two
contracts for NCB, International and National Shopping contracts regardless of their value.
(b)       Civil works: All documentation and contracts for microprojects valued at US$100,000
and above will go through the Bank's prior review. The first two contracts per year under Minor
Works will also be prior reviewed. Approximately 40 to 50% of civil works contracts will be prior
reviewed. The region's updated standard bidding documents for NCB and Minor Works will be
used for all civil works contracts.
(c)       Consulting Services: Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to
prior Bank review. Request for Proposal (RFP), short lists, terms of condition of contracts as well
as evaluation reports and recommendation for award will be prior reviewed by the Bank for
contracts for technical assistance as well as for studies and training. Prior review will be carried
out for individual consultant contracts of US$20,000 and above and for contracts with firms
valued at US$50,000 and above. All documents and reconmmendations involving sole source
contracting will be subject to Bank prior review.
Following award of contracts, should any material modifications or waiver of tenns and conditions of a
contract resulting in an increase or decrease above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank will
reserve the right to prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for
consulting services).
7. Custom Duties and Taxes
It is understood that all goods specifically imported for the project will be exempt from custom duties
and taxes. Foreign technical assistance specialists will be exempt from the Government's normal
personal income tax.
8. Action Plan for strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project
Procurement
Based on the analysis of both the agency's procurement capacity and the information
gathered, the following recommendations are made to continue improving their
capacity to undertake procurement:
*   Establish a Procurement Unit as part of the new organization of ASIF II. This Procurement Unit will
consist of the Head of the Unit and two procurement officers.
*   Provide as soon as possible under the PHRD Grant, intensive training by a procurement/technical
expert who will conduct 3/4 days seminars at ASIF's office. This training will specifically address: (i)
- 53 -



drafting of scope of works, based on the communities specific needs/program; (ii) contents of bid
packages with regards to complete and coordinated drawings and specifications; (iii) bid evaluation on
priced activities schedules and the differences with bill of quantities; (iv) payments under lump-sum
contract based on Priced activity schedule; and (v) terms of reference for Architectural and Engineering
services and methods for hiring their services, as well as other related topics. The training will also
consist of hands-on preparation of draft bidding documents, following updated Bank standards, for the
pilot micro-projects to be financed under the PPF.
*   Review the Operational Manual and make it consistent with Bank Procurement Guidelines, especially
with regards to securities/ performance bonds for small civil works under microprojects. Obtain
Bank's clearances and update the Operational Manual to reflect the experience of the training and the
suggested new processes that will improve implementation. The Operational Manual should also
include eligibility criteria as per Bank guidelines for Government owned/supported agencies.
*   In order to establish accountability of the engineering staff, introduce a new way of operation in which
the engineers will be responsible for a micro-project from identification by the community through
design and approval stages all the way to substantial completion and acceptance of the works to the end
of the defects liability period.
* SIF Procurement Unit Head should attend Bank's recommended courses in Turin and should organize
in-house training for all other ASIF staff dealing with procurement upon his return.
*   A team of technical assistance for procurement and construction technology must be hired to provide
assistance to ASIF in their day-to-day operations, recording the procedures that prove successful in the
Operational Manual, thereby contributing to capacity building of the Fund as well as providing
continuity in the implementation of the project.
:   The above team of experts should provide assistance with the preparation of advertisements, bid
documents (including thoroughly coordinated and complete drawings and specifications, as well as
advice on prototype design for schools), bid evaluation, evaluation reports etc., and to help the
Procurement Unit in monitoring, revising and updating the procurement plan for the project. The
procurement/technical experts will also conduct seminars and in-house procurement training for the
ASIF staff.
*   The civil works program must be carefully coordinated with the procurement of furniture and
equipment to avoid goods sitting in warehouses due to delays in the construction. The engineering staff
responsible must prepare construction schedules. The existing MIS shall be upgraded to provide
contract performance monitoring.
*   Bank supervision missions must include a Procurement Accredited Staff and be scheduled every 6
months.
*   Periodic ex-post review by Bank of 1 in 5 contracts
- 54 -



Procurement Plan  Table B1)
Description     Type  Proc.      Proposed       Est.  Invitation   BID Docs/      Bid/RFP       Contract  Contract
Method   Number of   Total  GPN/SPN   RFP                 1. Opening    signing    complete
Packages      Cost   Local       1. Preparation  2. Evaluation
(US$   advertisem   2. Documents  3. Recomm
_million)  ent      Issued         for award
Civil Works                                                                     I
Micro-projects  CW    NCB        several     16.65     GPN: 5100 Depends on MP cycle (identification-ASIF Board
(includes MPs                                           Local:    approval)
under PPF)                        average              after MP    Model Plan
estimated            approval   Bid docs issued: after completion of fully coordinated
MP cost                          drawings and specifications
US$77,000                        Bid Opening: 30 days after availability of bid docs (more
depending on nature of project)
Evaluation & Recom. For Award: 15 days + Bank
Review Time
Contract Signing: After Bank's No Objection
Contract Completion: As stipulated in contract
Micro-projects   CW    MW         several    2.94      GPN:       Depends on MP cycle (identification-ASIF Board
(includes MPs                     under                5/2000     approval)
under PPF)                       US$ 30,000             Local:    See Above
after MP
I approval   I
Micro-projects   CW    NBF                    1.31     Non-Bank-Financed
(co-financiers)
Goods
Vehicles       G      ICB       1            0.14     GPN         1. 6/2001       1.8/2001      10/2001    12/2001
Update:    2. 7/2001       2.9/2001
5/2001                     3.9/2001
Local:
I                      1  ~~~~5/2001               1             1               ___
Furniture       G      NCB       several      1.30     GPN         Depends on completion of facilities
5/2000
Local:
3/2001
G      NS        several     0.20      GPN         Depends on completion of facilities
5/2000
Local:
12/2000
Computer       G      is        1            0.046    GPN         1. 1/2001       1. invite     3/2001    5/2001
Equipment                                              5/2000      2. 1/2001      quotes
2/2001
Office         G      IS        1            0.022    GPN         1 12/2000       1. invite     2/2001    3/2001
Equipment                                              5/2000      2. 12/2000     quotes
I                   i _______    ______________   12/2000
Training       G      IS        1            0.07     GPN         I st batch:     1. invite     5/2001    6/2001
Materials                                              5/2000      1. 3/2001       quotes
____________2_ 2. 3/2001                                           4/2001
G      NS        2           0.06      GPN         1. 9/2000      1. invite      11/2000   12/2000
5/2000     2. 9/2000       quotes
10/2000
- 55 -



Description      Type  Proc.    Proposed        Est.  Invitation   BID Docs/      Bid/RFP       Contract Contract
Method  Number of   Total  GPN/SPN   RFP                 1. Opening     signing   complete
Packages      Cost   Local       1. Preparation  2. Evaluation
(US$   advertisem  2. Documents  3. Recomm
million) ent        Issued         for award
Consulting
Services
Local Gov't      CS    NBF       2            0.41    Non-Bank-Financed (British-Know-How- DFID)
Training
Micro-project    CS    NBF       2            0.45    Non-Bank-Financed (British-Know-How- DFID)
architectural/
engineering design
& supervision
Micro-projects    CS    QCBS    2             0.30     GPN         1.7/2000        1. 10/2000    11/2000   11/2004
civil works                                            5/2000      2. 8/2000      2. 10/2000
management and                                         SPN                        3. 11/2000
supevision                                             7/2000
Local
_________________  _____ _     7/2000
Micro-project    CS    QCBS    2              0.41     GPN         1. 7/2000      1. 10/2000     11/2000   11/2002
architectural/                                         5/2000      2. 8/2000      2. 10/2000
engineering design                                     SPN                        3. 11/2000
prototype for                                          6/2000
schools &                                              Local
specialized                                            6/2000
facilities
Micro-project    CS    Fixed    3             0.25
architectural/          Budget
engineering design                                         Depending on micro-project idenfitication/appraisal schedule
Micro-projects    CS    QCBS    1             0.25
civil works
construction
supevision
Social Sector    CS    NBF       3            0.25    Non-Bank-Financed
Training
(2nd component)
Training for     CS    NBF        I           0.11     Non-Bank-Financed
Accountants (2nd
component)
Training for     CS    CQ         1           0.04     GPN         Prepare/send    Short list &  Contract  6/2004
Contractors                                            5/2000      TORs           Selection      Award:
Local       10/2000        11/2000       12/2000
9/2000     Request
expression of
interest
.______________  _____  ________       10/2000
Impact           CS    CQ         1           0.09     GPN         6/2001         7/2001         8/2001    4/2005
Assessment                                             5/2000
Studies (I per                                         GPN
year)                                                  update
512001
Local
.__ ___ ___ ___ __ _   _ __   _5/2001  1   _                       1
- 56 -



Description       Type  Proc.    Proposed        Est.  Invitation      BID Docs/      Bid/RFP        Contract. Contract
Method   Number of    Total  GPN/SPN          RFP            1. Opening    signing    complete
Packages      Cost   Local          1. Preparation  2. Evaluation
(US$   advertisement  2. Documents  3. Recomm
million)               Issued         for award
Consulting
Services
Technical Advisors  CS    CQ      3            0.28     GPN 5/2000    7/2000          8/2000         9/2000    6/2003
(quality of works)  -_Local 6/2000
Financial Audits    CS    LS       1           0.08     GPN 5/2000    Prepare/Send   Evaluation      Contract  4/2006
GPN update    RFP            11/2001        Award
5/2001 Local  9/2001                        12/2001
8/2001
Procurement &     CS    LS         I           0.11      GPN 5/2000    9/2001         11/2001        12/2001   12/2005
Technical Audit                                          GPN update
5/2001 Local
8/2001
Study Fund        CS    Individu  2            0.024    GPN 5/2000   Prepare TORs  Short list &      Contract  12/2003
(impact studies)         al                             GPN update                    selection     Award
Consult.                       5/2001 Local   12/2001        1/2002        1/2002
Selection                      11/2001
Institutional     CS    Individu   1           0.04      GPN 5/2000    7/2001         8/2001         8/2001    6/2003
Training (for ASIF       al                              GPN update
staff)                   Consult.                       5/2001 Local
Selection                      6/2001
MIS specialist    CS    NBF        1           0.09     Non-Bank-Financed
Procurement       CS    NBF        1           0.2
Advisor
Principal & School  CS    NBF      1           0.275
Council Training         Single
Source
Special Study     CS    Single    1            0.02                    Prepare TORs   Selection      Contract  6/2002
Source                                        2/2002         3/2002         award
3/2002
Study Tours for   CS    NBF        1           0.17     Non-Bank Financed
ASIF staff               Actual
cost
Training workshops CS    NBF       1           0.043
& seminars               Actual
cost                  __
CW= Civil Works; MW= Minor Works; G= Goods; TA =Technical Assistance; ICB =International Competitive
Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; IS = International Shopping; NS =National Shopping;;
QCBS=Quality- and Cost-based Selection; FB = Fixed Budget; CQ=Consultants' Qualification; IC =Individual
Consultant, LC = Least Cost, NBF = Non bank financing
- 57 -



Summary of Procurement Activities (Table B2)
.Section 1: Procurement Review
ICB         NCB           IS            NS           Minor Works Other           Percentage of
Methods       credit amount
subject to prior
review
Works
Procurement                 Below                                    Below $30,000      NBF
thresholds                  $200,000                                                                40% - 50%
Individual and                                                       Aggregate:
aggregate                   Aggregate:                                $2.94 million    Aggregate:
$16.65 million                                         $1.31 million
Prior Review                All contracts                             First 2
above                                    contracts each
$100,000                                 year
Goods                       (Furniture and
Procurement                 related
thresholds:                 teaching aids)
Individual and    Above     Below         Below          Below
aggregate       $100,000    $100,000      $100,000      $30,000                                        85%
Aggregate:  Aggregate:    Aggregate:    Aggregate:
$0.14       1.30 million   $0.13 million   $0.90 million
million                                 (includes NS
under
operating
costs)
Prior Review    All packages First 2      First 2       First 2
contracts    contracts      contracts
regardless of
value.
QBCS        QB            Fixed Budget  Least Cost   Consultant   Single-        Individual
(firms)                   (firms)                    Qualification  Source       Consultants
Consultants     Aggregate:                Aggregate:    Aggregate:   Aggregate:    Aggregate:    Aggregate:
$1.82                     $0.25 million   $0.19 million $0.77 million  $0.29 million   $0.35 million
million
Prior Review as                                                       TOR and      TOR and RFP  TOR and
per Bank        All Steps                 All Steps      All Steps    qualifications  packages for all qualifications for
Guidelines                                                            for all      contracts      all assignment
assignments.                contracts above
Contracts                   $20,000
above $50,000
_  (All Steps)    I_I
Ex-post Review   Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out in accordance with Para. 4 of Appendix I of the Bank's
Guidelines and reviews during supervision missions. I in 5 contracts
- 58 -



Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
Brief statement
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination will rest with the
Armenia Social Investment Fund (ASIF). The ASIF has implemented the First SIF
under Bank financing. ASIF will be supported by Technical Assistance consisting of:
Procurement Specialist, Financial Management, Information Systems Specialists and
Technical Advisors.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status. negotiations ? Yes[ I  No [X]
A CPAR for the Republic of Armenia has   RFPs and bidding documents for the first year of project implementation are being
not been completed. For this Project, the    prepared and will be ready by credit effectiveness.
Govemment will follow the agreed Bank
procurement procedures as described in this
document and in the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: September 2000
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: May 2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business:
Yes X    No
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes  No [X]
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: Yes  No [X]
Retroactive financing: Yes   No [X]
Advance procurement: Yes     No [X]
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be
cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No
packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The ASIF will
maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by Bank's supervision
missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated semi-annually. Procurement
information will be recorded by the ASIF submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly
and annual progress reports. This information will include: revised cost estimates for
the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as well as
compliance with aggregate limits (within 15%) on specific methods of procurement. A
Management Information System (MIS), with a procurement module will help the
ASIF monitor all procurement information.
Co-financing: Yes
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for
the procurement in the Project:
Name: E. Villatoro      Ext: 32486
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: The procurement
specialist at the Resident Mission in Yerevan has already assisted in the preparation of
the capacity assessment review.
- 59 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines in the "Disbursement
Handbook". The project has been designed to be carried out over a period of five and a half years, and
credit funds are expected to be fully disbursed within twenty two (22) quarters after the expected
effectiveness date of July 1, 2000. The project completion date is June 30, 2005 with a credit closing date
of December 31, 2005. The disbursement categories and amounts and percentages to be financed under
each category are presented in Table C, as follows:
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category  F_narn In U nln                     Fiacing Pen-tage
Works                                       9.00                          90%
(a) Microprojects (other than
sponsored microprojects) with respect
to the Rehabilitation of Small-Scale
Social and Economic Infrastructure
(b) Sponsored Microprojects with            2.71                          45%
respect to the Rehabilitation of
Small-Scale Social and Economic
Infrastructure
Goods                                       1.50           100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factorycost)
(a) Microproject with respect to the                       and 80% of local expenditures for other
Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Social                              items procured locally
and Economic Infrastructure
(b) Others                                  0.29          100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consulting Services & Training              1.89                         100%
Incremental Operating Costs of the          2.11                         100%
ASIF II
Refunding of Project Preparation            0.50
Advance
Unallocated                                 2.00
Total Project Costs                        20.00
Total                                      20.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement arrangements under the project will be carried out using SOE procedures (i) for civil works
(microprojects) costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) for services of consulting firms costing less
than US$50,000; (iii) for services of individual consultants costing less than US$20,000; and (iv) for
training, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. The
- 60 -



required supporting documentation and other records, including framework agreements between the PIU
and implementing agencies, would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after the receipt by IDA of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made
available for review by the independent auditors and by the visiting IDA staff upon request. The
processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the IDA Credit, Borrower,
communities and donors/sponsors counterpart financing would be managed by the PIU in coordination and
consultation with the MOF.
It is expected that during the course of the project, once the PIU capacity is built up, credit disbursements
will be carried out in accordance with LACI requirements, using the quarterly disbursement method, based
on Project Management Reports (PMRs). This transition is expected to occur in accordance with a
time-bound action plan (see Annex 15) which would allow sufficient time for the PIU staff to become
acquainted with the new planning/forecasting, management and monitoring tools necessary for the
preparation of PMRs. It is expected that the ASIF will prepare the first PMR no later than June 30, 2001.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
termns and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for the PIU, denominated in US Dollars, in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The selection process and criteria for selection of the bank would
follow IDA standard selection procedures. Payment of eligible expenditures (civil works, goods, services,
operating costs and the refinancing of the PPF) may be made by the PIU out of the Special Account. The
authorized allocation is US$1.0 million. The initial deposit into the Special Account will be US$0.5
million, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total arnount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$2.0
million. The Special Account would be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or when the undisbursed
balance falls below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis and will be accompanied by full
documentation, including monthly bank statements of the Special Account, for all items except those
eligible for disbursement on the basis of the SOEs. All other applications for direct payment or issuance of
Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20 percent of the Special Account allocation.
The PrU will also open a project account into which a share of the Government's contributions will be
deposited every year. A deposit by the Govemment Counterpart Fund in the amount of US$80,000 is a
condition of project effectiveness. Thereafter, the amount deposited by the Government shall be not less
than US$80,000 for each semi-annual period. This amount will be deposited no later than June 15 and
December 15 of each year. In addition, the PIU will also open and maintain three additional commercial
bank accounts, one for the communities' cofinancing of microprojects, another account for sponsors for the
Matching Fund of the project, and an account for the cofinanciers. All four accounts will be autonomous
and will be audited annually by an accredited auditing firm.
The financing of microprojects by the PIU will be carried out through direct transfers to the accounts of
suppliers and contractors, upon authorization of the implementing agency. In order to finance small sums
to the microproject committees, related to microproject management and supervision, as well as to pay
local contractors without a bank account, the PIU will open bank accounts in regional centers. The PIU
will issue payment instructions to these regional bank to process payments to the implementing agency
representatives and/or to the contractor.
Direct Payment:
This method may be used to facilitate payments to intemational consultants. Direct deposits to foreign
bank accounts can be requested by submitting the appropriate withdrawal application supported by a
contract copy and original invoices.
- 61 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND If
PJet Scedule  ....lanned                                                       Actal
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    14
First Bank mission (identification)                                           10/12/98
Appraisal mission departure                     01/29/2000
Negotiations                                    04/03/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2000
Prepared by:
Caroline Mascarell, Task Manager
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciali
Caroline Mascarell                Task Management
Aleksandra Posarac                Program Management
Alexandre Marc                    Social Investment Funds
Hilarian Codippily                Economic Analysis
Tim E. Campbell                   Local Governance
Roberto Tarallo                   Financial Management
Evelyn Villatoro                  Procurement
Naira Melkumyan                   Financial Management
Maria Gracheva                    Implementation
Hiwote Tadesse                    Operations
-62 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 11
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Improving Social Assistance in Armenia, June 8, 1999
Armenia Social Investment Fund I Mid-Term Review Report, June 1998
Armenia Country Assistance Strategy, July 31, 1997
C. Other
Armenia Social/Institutional Assessment of Community Groups and Local Governments, William
Schlansker, October 1999
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis, Babken Babajanian, September 1999
Operational Manual (first draft), Nubar Goudsouzian, February 2000
Social Snapshot and Poverty, Ministry of Statistics, State Register and Analysis, 1996
Beneficiary Impact Assessments, Armenia Social Investmnent Fund
Procurement and Technical Audits, Armenia Social Investment Fund
*Including electronic files
- 63 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 11
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions             disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                         Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P035806         1998 Armenia                       AGRI. REFORM SUPPORT                          0.00       14.50         0.00        8.50       3.36       0.00
P008281         1998 Armenia                        EDUCATION                                    0.00       15.00         0.00        9.03       0.45       0.00
P008276         1999 Armenia                       ELEC. TRANSM & DISTR                         0.00        21.00         0.00       20.07       1.92       0.00
P008279         1997 Armenia                        ENTERPRISE DEVELOP.                          0.00       16.75         0.00        4.35       3.78       0.00
P050140         1998 Armenia                        HEALTH                                       0.00       10.00         0.00        7.81       4.42       0.00
P035765         1996 Armenia                       HIGHWAY                                       0.00       31.00         0.00        1.85     -11.85       2.65
P064879         1999 Armenia                        IRRIGATION DAM SAFETY                       0.00        26.60         0.00       26.49       0.86       0.00
P008277         1995 Armenia                        IRRIGATION REHAB.                           0.00        43.00         0.00        7.33       9.18       3.10
P035805         1998 Armenia                        MUNICIPAL DEVELOP.                          0.00        30.00         0.00       25.85       2.86       0.00
P051171         1999 Armenia                       SAC III                                      0.00        65.00         0.00        5.65       7.08       0.00
P051026         1998 Armenia                       SATAC II                                     0.00         5.00         0.00        2.99       3.08       0.00
P035768         1996 Armenia                       SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                          0.00        12.00         0.00        0.72       0.85       0.00
P044387         1996 Armenia                       STRUCT. ADJUST. TA                           0.00         3.80         0.00        1.21       1.43       0.00
P057560         1999 Armenia                       TITLE REGISTRATION                            0.00        8.00         0.00        7.41       1.44       0.00
Total:        0.00       301.65         0.00      129.26      28.86       5.75
ARMENIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                      Disbursed
IFC                                           IFC
FY Approval                 Company                                     Loan    Equity         Quasi       Pa-tic      Loan    Equity          Quasi       Partic
Total Portfolio:                    0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval                Company                                         Loan         Equity         Quasi         Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                        0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
- 64 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARMENIA: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
"P;ERTY andt OA                 .entrl Lpw-L 
ArmenIa         00    0             000    Asi.  ; 0 . i; .Development diamond'
Pooulsdon. mid-year (millions)                              3.8        47$ t00000 tt  0000000 l}   00;t3.5150 t;000  Life expectancy
GNP per ca:ia (Atfemethkd,  .s-)                           480       2,1-         520
IGNP        }       5iiZs        f (Atlas rnriod IJS$ bUttons)0 f<01.8:-   10390   0L01}8i44000               
Aversg* antnuwl growth. 994
Popul#allnulh*8 (%)                      0 t0              0.3  :.0,0E1.f0t,h 1.A7t0
Lab rforcef%)                       -1.2                            ~~~~~~~~~GNP                        Gross
per                               primary
_eat V*C.1t e  OtIsig __imit _% * s  . . t*  1992. 98                                      capita                          enrollment
* := F9ke : !; - 0o  ii                          Access to safewwater (% f
AGos   srry tnro       rf3f9tf;: b     f0 of acbool-epe potd:) 37      '0.        108 ::i         -      Armenia
::e:e                                                       . :0f: ::  .-V: ;0:: .   :0 0Qi:02: ;; ;t0< f5; :00 .ff:u)  f   w k 4:t; i}21015:i::  ;:11t3<:f ff   -Low-income group
KEY EONOtUM1RTiOS   md LQNG-TiENDSTI:;tENDS           0,0t;t0  X000    S0 V  E 000                  00      00f   ?         ;ju0   00:20
Economic ratios
'GOP (U3$ bIA"lln)                                           .        18         t
Groes domestic  vestment/GOP               3~~~~~~~~~0   ~~                     Trade
EooOorse). t o%g God and............ ser.vlct:0es/^                2.:0t:2l.3  1D9,-1  t 
Gssnxat/Gat savmne GOP;002;0t00 -Z,tt<.0 0   .> .................  -12.6i;;0i  gs-........
Current account balanoelGOp                   -15.8      -17.4      ~~Domestic
titerest oetI    P                                                     0.8        0        si                              Investment
Total00 0 tj00 0   0 ;;00i; ^ 0 00  ^ debt/GOPi;8   0003 ;.0i-99i^ 0;000 1490  4 38 t00  ji00000       Indebtedness
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987        1997     1994Sd Groth rates of utput and investment (s)
(% of GDP)l3
Aginculture  .t                                                                                                L c33.3  34.2  2g0r
Industry                                            .         .       26.2       24.0                          A          1
Manufacturing7..                                            .       25.1          ..      o       |>
Services                                            .         ..      40.5       41.7                           9-5K 4      9-7   98a
Private consumption                                 .         ..     112.3      107.3   ~20
Generalsiovemment consumDtion                       .         ..      12.9       11.9                -GDI           ---DP
Imports of ooods and services                                         58.5       53.0
1977-87  1988-98        1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(avrg of   ua G ro) t30
Asiriculture                                       ..       1.6        0.5       21.3      so 
Industrv                                           ..    -14.1         3.7       12.1      4
Manufacturinq                                     .      13.1      323 .30
Services                                           ..    -10.8         4.5       4.        2007                      9
Private consumotion                                 ..     -8.6        1.7      1.          o        J0
General government consumption                      ..     -2.1        4.4         .9                       G 40-GO               9
Gross domestic investment                          ..     -10.9       24.3          ..     10
Imports of soods and services                       ..      2.7        2.3          .-Exor0s    -                         Impors
Gross national roduct                              ..      -9.9        8.6          .
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-sroup averaoe. If data are missins, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 65 -



Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
D1977    1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domest[c prices
(% change)                                                                         6000
Consumer prices                                 ..      ..       13.8       8.7    4,000
lmplicitGDPdeflator                             .        .       17.3      11.2
2,r000   vt 
Govemment finance                                                                  2
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                      o                                    I
Current revenue                                 ..               19.8      20.8              93   94   95   96   97    9
Current budget balance                         ..        ..      -1.7       1.5              -GDP deflator -4-PI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..        ..      -5.9      -4.3
TRADE
$ million~  and  1977  1987  1997  1998  Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      .       233       251      1,000
Gold, jewelry, and other precious stones       .       ..       102
Machinery and mechanical                      ..       ..        36         ..     750
Manufactures                                  ..          ..     19
Total imports (cit)                            ..        ..      793       802       600 -
Food                                          .        ..       270                250
Fuel and energy                                                 235
Capital goods                                  .        ..       34    o                 tJ
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..92  93  94                                                  93  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      ..         ..        ..              * Exports     o Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              11977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       .       330       357       5
Imports of goods and services                  ..        .       952       948
Resource balance                                .        ..     -622      -591       o
Net income                                      .        .       123        75      -5
Net current transfers                          ..        ..      242       188 I_
Current account balance                         ..       .       -257     -328      10
Financing items (net)                          ..        .       316       331                                          _
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..      -59        -3    -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..       255       298
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)                 ..       ..    490.6    504.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
11977    1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS milions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..       ..       798      820
IBRD                                          ..       .         11       10                   G:45 kAlo
IDA                                           ..      ..       254       293
Total debt service                              ..        .        28       37
IBRD                                                             I         2                                   : 293
IDA                                           .        .         1         2        E: 228B29
Composition of net resource flows                                                          S
Official grants                              ..        ..       35
Official creditors                            .        ..       98        18
Private creditors                                                0         0 .
Foreign direct investment                                       51       221           D: 70
Portfolio equity                             ..        ..        0         0
c: 174
World Bank program
Commitments                                   .        ..      107       125    A- IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                   77        43    B - IDA    D - Other multlateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                             0         0    C - IMF                       G - Short-ter
Net flows                                     .        ..       77        43
Interest payments                            ..        ..        2         2
Net transfers                                                   76        41
Development Economics                                                                                                 9122199
- 66 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Insttutona SupoctMicr-pojec DquttentProcamenert    Finace and Adrninistration  Maaganet Infonatio
DtGee atin n Office
PrmmmW Unk                  hoetueot Unit      ~~~~~~~~~~Accounning Unit  Teaco JUi
Training and TA     Follow-p Unit
coondination Unit             Legal LJnit     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~General Admtinisnatio
Unit
Monitceing and     E.sftmsation Unit
The organizational structure of the ASIF 11 Project has been restructured to meet the institutional
challenges and evolving needs under the enhanced scope of the project. The novel features of this structure
is its focus on the enhancement of the quality of works and institutional support covering community
outreach activities, training and technical assistance, as well as monitoring and evaluation.
The ASIF H1 Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be headed by the Executive Director and will
comprise five Departments including Institutional Support Microprojects, Procurement, Finance and
Administration and Management Information. The Executive Director will be responsible and accountable
for the effective management and admrinistration of ASIF operations in accordance with guidelines and
procedures set-out in the Operational Manual. The main responsibility of the Director will be to,
systematically supervise the admiinistrative and technical imnplementation of SIF activities and to carry out
-. 67 -



core functions involving (i) liaising and coordinating activities with relevant sector Ministries, local
governments and donors; (ii) preparing the ASIF's annual work and budget programs as well as reports on
the progress of the project; (iii) monitoring the financial transactions carried out under the project and
approving and clearing all disbursement transactions; (iv) approving contractual and procurement
arrangements; and (v) reviewing and clearing all studies and reviews carried out under the project.
Each of the Departments in the PIU will be managed by a Manager and comprise a number of specialized
units. The Institutional Support Department, a newly created department, will consist of three Units: a
Community Outreach and Promotion Unit, a Training and Technical Assistance Unit, and a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit The Microproject Department includes three Units covering Appraisal, Estimation
and Follow-up. The Procurement Department consists of a Procurement Unit and a Legal Unit. The
Finance and Administration Department consists of two Units on Accounting, and General
Administration. The Management Information Department will consist of a Data Generation Unit and an
Office Technology Unit. These Departments will provide technical and administrative support on ASIF
operations under each stage of the Microproject cycle involving promotion, project identification and
preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation, supervision and monitoring. The implementation
responsibilities under each Department in the PITJ will be the following:
Institutional Support Department: This department was created as a result of the need to closely integrate
key support functions of the SIF program focusing on institution building at the local level to ensure
effective coordination and implementation with regard to: (i) Community outreach and promotion of
microprojects at the community level; (ii) training and technical assistance to local governments,
community associations, and contractors; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation of key studies and reports.
Specifically, the Department will be responsible for: (a) carrying out institutional and social assessments of
local government and community-based associations; (b) assessing capacity needs at the local level; (c)
mobilizing and coordinating relevant technical assistance to meet training needs; (d) assessing the impact of
technical assistance and training programs; (e) implementing effective mechanisms for stakeholder
participation and information dissemination at the local level; (f) establishing regular working level contacts
among line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies, and Bank project management units; and (g) data gathering
from the relevant ASIF departments, analysis, and formulation of progress reports.
Microproject Department: The functions of this department will remain largely unchanged. Its main
functions will include: microproject preparation, appraisal and supervision (i.e. follow up) of microproject
implementation. The changes that this department will undergo will be: (i) promotional activities
previously covered will be transferred to the newly created Institutional Support Department; and (ii)
microproject procurement activities will be transferred to the newly created Procurement Department.
Based on the Quality of Works Enhancement Program developed under the ASIF I, the structure, functions
and procedures of this department will be upgraded to ensure greater accountability and higher quality of
works.
Procurement Department: This department was created to centralize microproject related procurement
activities into one department. The Legal Unit will also be integrated with this unit, as its work relates
directly to procurement issues. The department will be responsible for: (i) training LAs and contractors in
the competitive bidding process; (ii) ensuring all stages of the bid process carried out by the lAs are in
accordance with the Operational Manual; (iii) carrying out bid conferences for clarifying bid issues with
contractors at the community level; (iv) participating in the bid openings at the community level; (v)
issuing contracts to the winning contractors; (vi) reviewing and approving change order requests; (vii)
resolving legal disputes with contractors; and (viii) maintaining a filing system on all bid documentation
relating to each microproject.
- 68 -



Finance and Administration Department: This departnent will be responsible for: (i) disbursement
activities under the project, (ii) accounting and budgeting; (iii) monitoring of cost effectiveness of
microprojects; (iv) preparation of annual plans and related budgets for ASIF II activities; and (v) general
office administration including, personnel management, contracting of consultant services, procurement of
office supplies, goods and vehicles, and maintenance of central filing system. The roles and functions of
this Department will be governed by the guidelines and procedures set out in the Finance and Personnel
Administration Manual.
Management Information Department: The main responsibilities of this departrnent will be to: (i)
coordinate, upgrade, and provide support and training on office technology; (ii) track microproject
implementation activities at every stage of the microproject cycle, including performance and impact
indicators of the project; and (iii) generate data and supporting tables for the progress reports.
- 69 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Project Implementation Plan
Actions                        2000     _  2001          2002         2003         2004         2005
Q1 0Q2Q31Q4 Q12Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2JQ3|Q41QI Q2IQ 4 QQIQ2|Q3|Q4 Q1 Q2|Q3|Q4
z-o
CD,
I. Preparation Phase
I Establishment of Fund                          ____
a. Issue Decree establishing ASIF II
bh Reconfirm the ASIF Board
cFinaization of Operational Manual
d. Approval of Operational Manual by ASIF Board
e. Establishment of A Fully Operational MIS
f. Open Special Account and Deposit Govemment       *
Counterpart Fund $80,000
g. Obtain signed agreements with co-financiers
2 !Procurement.Upgrading of the Office Equipmen
a. Vehicles
b. Computers (for the new department)
-.  .,,, 11 .   , . _1    ... ........ ..... - .... .. I.   .. I   1 .    I   ..1     - ....   .. . __ .-   I   I _   - 
c. *Upgrade existing computers
3 Establishment of ASIF ii Executive Office
a. 'Appointment of key staff in the Institutional Support
.and Procurement Departments
b. Reconfirmation of ASIF Director
c. lReconfirmation of ASIF department and unit heads
d. Reappointment and/or recruitment of technical and
support staff_
ii. Impiementation Phase                                 _
Micro-project Training and T.A. to lAs,
Communities and Contractors
a. mConduct Needs Assessment
b. Ongoing-on-thejob training by ASIF staff
Start-up Phase
Promotion, preparation and design
- Mid-term Phase
Procurement, Implementation, Supervision
- Finai Phase
IMaintenance and Sustainability                                                                                     -
c. Special Training by local and foreign Trainers
(i) Solicitation for expression of interest to bid for    _  _ _                                                -  -      -
local training contract
(ii) Preparation of Shortlist
(iii) Shortlist of firms for tender
(iv) Selection of trainers
(v) Training sessions
d. IWorkshopsand Seminars
- 70 -



2 Local Government and Community Training
a. Conduct Needs Assessment
b. Bid-Process for Firm
(i) Solicitation for expression of interest to bid for
local trainina contract
(ii) Preparation of Shortlist
(iii) Shortlist of firms for tender
(iv) Selection of trainers
(v) Training sessions
c. Implernentation of training                                111 11              I            II                 _
d. Workshops and Seminars
3 ASIF Staff Training                                  _   =                            - _
a. Initial Training *                                        _ 
-Institutional Support Department
- Microproject Department training
- Finance and Administration Department training
b- C)nS ninq STrn ini nq       |  l | 1|11  11|li i 
- Special training organized based on need
-Study tours, workshops                       _ 
4 Technical Assistance to ASIF Staff
a. Quality of Works Supervisor                                                   IL                     ---             
b. Quality of Works Advisor
c. Procurement Specialist
d. Cost Accounting Specialist                 _         - _             - _
5 Micro-project Implementation
a. Community outreach and promotion
b. Selection of microprojects
c. Procurement
d. Implementation of microprojects
6 Monitoring and Evaluation
a. WB Launch Mission
b. Mid-Term Review
c. Impact Assessment
d. Procurement and technical audit
e. Quarterly reports
f. Annual reports
g. Annual financial audit
h. Staff performance evaluations
i. Annual action plan and budget
Training to be financed under ASIF If PHRD.
- 71 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
MICROPROJECT TYPOLOGY AND APPRAISAL CRITERIA
Typoloav
The ASIF II project will finance the implementation of microprojects in the following three areas:
1. Social Infrastructure:
a) Renovation, rehabilitation and construction of kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, and health
centers, clinics and polyclinics.
b) Renovation and rehabilitation of special schools for disabled children, art, music and sports schools
c) Rehabilitation of school heating systems.
d) Provision of school furniture.
e) Renovation and rehabilitation of children's playgrounds.
f) Renovation and rehabilitation of orphanages, old people's homes and homes for veterans.
g) Renovation and rehabilitation of community centers (including libraries, community halls, clubs, etc.).
2. Economic Infrastructure:
a) Renovation, rehabilitation and construction of potable water systems.
b) Renovation, rehabilitation and construction of local level irrigation systems, including reservoirs.
c) Rehabilitation of village or neighborhood roads, access roads to isolated villages, access roads to
agricultural lands and farms (including bridges, drainage, culverts, retaining walls, etc.).
d) Rehabilitation and construction of energy-generating microprojects for small and isolated communities
(micro hydro-power stations on irrigation channels and water pipelines, bio-energy plants. etc.).
e) Rehabilitation of telecommunication lines for isolated villages.
3. Sanitation and Environmental Infrastructure:
a) Renovation, rehabilitation and construction of sewage systems (only upon the condition of having the
system connected to the main sewage network or the presence of a filtration plant downstream) and storm
canals.
b) Improvement and rehabilitation of degraded environment through tree planting and clean-up.
c) Erosion control activities (tree planting, terracing, drainage canals, rehabilitation of the anti-hail
facilities).
d) Disposal and treatment of solid and liquid waste.
e) Construction or rehabilitation of microdams.
Project Appraisal: All microprojects to be financed under ASIF II will be subject to a pre-appraisal and
an appraisal.
Pre - Anpraisal Stane
All microprojects submitted to the ASIF will undergo a pre-appraisal with the objective of pre-screening
those microprojects which have satisfied basic requirements to merit full appraisal. The following
pre-appraisal criteria must be met for the Appraisal Unit to further appraise the microproject proposal.
- 72 -



1. Preliminary Selection Criteria.
The microproject must meet the preliminary selection criteria described in Paragraph 2.1.2 of the
Operational Manual, namely: microproject typology, community support and cost.
2. Lack of basic infrastructure.
The microproject must be located in the area where the community lacks appropriate basic infrastructure.
3. Duplication or dispersion of resources.
The proposed microproject must not target infrastructure facilities subject to structural modifications or
government cutbacks. It also must not duplicate projects sponsored by other institutions, i.e. Government,
NGOs, etc.
4. Legal permits.
There must be written authorizations or permits from local and regional authorities for the accomplishment
of works.
5. Owners' permits.
Where applicable, there must be a written agreement or other evidence from individuals authorizing use of
their land as a construction site or for access to the microproject site.
6. Community contribution
The local government or community must commit to providing the community contribution to the capital
costs of the microproject. This contribution should be at least 10% of the total microproject cost. In the
case of extremely poor communities, the Executive Committee can decide to reduce it to a level not less
than 5%.
7. Sustainabilitv and maintenance
The Implementing Agency must have a sound maintenance and sustainability plan for the microproject,
including an estimated budget, sources of revenue and a schedule of operation.
ApRraisal Stag_e
If a microproject meets the above pre-appraisal criteria, then the proposal will be evaluated using the
following appraisal criteria. The weights assigned to each criterion will be discussed and determined with
the Government of Armenia during Appraisal.
1. Technical norms and standards. The greater the severity of the damage and the works needed, the
higher the score. The ASIF will evaluate the extent of the damage to the facility in question, and the
critical nature of the rehabilitation works required to bring the facility to a functional condition. Each
typology has a list of possible construction works, each one with a particular score depending on severity.
The more severe the condition of the building, the higher is the need to carry out works. The facility will be
evaluated by the appraisal engineer, who during discussions with the implementing agency, will determine
the extent of the works needed based on the ability of mobilizing the comnmunity contribution.
2. Cost per beneficiarv. The lower the cost per beneficiary within a typology and geographical area, the
higher the score. The cost per beneficiary will be calculated based on the preliminary cost estimate
provided by the appraisal engineer during the preliminary appraisal. The definition of a beneficiary for each
facility is found in the annex to the Operational Manual. Scores are relative across typology, in other
words, cost comparisons are meaningful only within a typology. A high score in one typology will have an
-73 -



equal value as a high score in another typology, even if the absolute cost per beneficiary anount is vastly
different. The cost per beneficiary is scored with respect to typology, size and geographical area (so that
urban schools with a certain student size are compared to other similar schools).
3. Grade of municipality in trainin. The higher the grade in the training, the higher the score. Each local
government will undergo training carried out by a firm specializing in financial management and budgeting,
taxation and asset management. Each municipality is required to send two persons to attend the training.
These two persons will undergo testing at the end of the training. It is this score that is included in the
preliminary appraisal. These two municipal officials are required, according to the Operational Manual, to
be part of the Implementing Agency. A higher score indicates an increased willingness to take the process
seriously, as well as judge the competence of the implementing agency and local govermment.
4. Proximity to the border. If the village falls within the border area an extra score will be given.
Regarding the border zones, the government of Arnenia will determine a distance, within which a village
will receive extra points for being within this band. This band will indicate an area that is marginalized due
to a closed border. Because this distance will be constant, the ASIF will -- based on this distance -- compile
the actual list of villages that fall within this distance at the beginning of the credit.
5. The inclusion of the microproject in marz/list of priorities. If the project falls within the marz/city list of
priorities, then extra score will be given. At the beginning of the promotion stage, the Executive Director
will visit each marz/city and ask the Government for the priority projects in the marz/city. If the ASIF is
appraising a microproject proposal that also is included in this list, then an extra score will be given for the
appraisal. This will promote those projects that are in line with regional goverunent strategies.
6. Change of budget and deposit of refundable fee. If the Implementing Agency is serious and develops a
budget as a result of local government training, including the community contribution as part of the
annual budget, and submits this budget to the Ministry of Finance and Economy and to the ASIF, then it
will receive an extra score.
7. Number of students with respect to available spaces. The higher the student density in a given school,
a higher score will be given. The high student density indicates the over-use of the school facilities and
increased wear and tear. This will be supplemented with an assessment by parents in urban areas (where
there is a choice) of the value of the education received in that school. This criteria will differ of course
with respect to typology, but focus on the over-use of the facility and its services by its beneficiaries.
8. Educational Benchmarks for the school. The better the qualifications of the teachers, and the more
students progress to higher education, the higher the score. This criteria will approximate the value of the
school with respect to other schools in similar geographical area and size.
-74 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
POVERTY TARGETING STRATEGY AND ALLOCATION OF FUNDS
Introduction
I.    The objective of this annex is to outline the poverty targeting strategy and the proposed allocation
of funds across marzes (regions) under the ASIF II project. In broad terms, the allocations by marz will be
determined by its share of the population, its poverty indicators, and regional preference factors which
depend on whether or not it is in the earthquake zone or in a border area affected by military conflicts. The
background of this annex is based on the findings of the Household Budget Survey of 1996/97 and the
Bank's report entitled "Improving Social Assistance in Armenia" of June 1999.
Background
2.    As noted in the above mentioned report, Annenia has made significant progress in recent years, in
reforming its economy, maintaining macroeconomic stability, and in moving to a path of sustainable
economic growth. Despite these advances the recovery remains fragile. Although overall living standards
have improved since 1994, poverty is still widespread and little or no impact has been made on the
incidence of extreme poverty.
3.    After a sharp descent into poverty from 1992 to 1994, when the vast majority of the population
experienced conditions of absolute poverty, some improvement in living conditions has been achieved. The
average wage doubled in real terms between 1994 and 1996 and substantial increases were achieved in the
proportion of households with electricity and piped water. Nevertheless, the 1996/97 Household Budget
Survey showed that about 55% of the population were living in poverty and 28% percent of the population
were under the food line. The average wage was still only one-third of its 1992 level. Vulnerability to
poverty also continued to be high, with many households moving in and out of poverty. The trend of rapidly
increasing inequality appeared to have stabilized since 1994 but remained very high. The Gini coefficient
for per capita income distribution had reached 0.58 compared to the pre-transition level of 0.26 in 1989.
However, for household expenditures, which are more consistent, the Gini coefficient was estimated at 0.44
in 1996. Nevertheless, in 1996/97, per capita consumption was still 18 times higher in the top decile than
for the poorest 10%.
4.    The correlation between poverty and unemployment was found to be stronger than in 1994, but
still very weak in comparison with non-CIS countries. Although the unemployed have the highest incidence
and depth of poverty, the largest numbers of poor are the working poor. Because of the low level of public
sector wages, the large number of workers on administrative leave without pay, and the high prevalence of
part time work, employment does not guarantee sufficient earnings to support a family. Overall, the urban
population continues to be poorer than the rural population; however, in contrast to 1994, the incidence of
extreme poverty was found to be higher in rural than in urban areas, suggesting that agriculture has
become less effective as a safety net for the rural population. There appears now to be a link between
household size and poverty but the evidence is not very strong.
5.    The primary reasons households remain poor include inactivity through lack of remunerated
employment opportunities or assets for investment in private activities, low wages, lack of mobility, poor
health and physical isolation. Unemployment is not only high, at 28 percent as measured by SDS surveys in
- 75 -



1996/97, it is also stagnant. Half of the unemployed have been without work for more than a year. Recent.
job creation has been concentrated mostly in self-employment and informal activities. At the same time,
because of low wages, employment does not necessarily protect families against poverty.
6.     Since 1996, the Government has taken some important actions to address poverty and strengthen
social protection. It introduced comprehensive structural reforms in the social sectors (social assistance,
social insurance, health and education). Given Armenia's limited fiscal resources, the core of the
Government's reform in social assistance is to improve targeting and outreach.
The Armenia Social Investment Fund
7.    With the implementation of the ASIF I project in 1996, the Government has become increasingly
aware of its importance as a tool for poverty alleviation. It forms an integral component of the
Government's goal to improve accessibility, sustainability and quality of social services provided to the
poor. It has been effective in carrying out this mandate by financing the construction and rehabilitation of
social and economic infrastructure, to complement the work of other line ministries. The ASIF has also
been crucial in strengthening social capital and providing short-term employment opportunities to the low
income groups. However, a change in the methodology for allocation of funds has become necessary as
described below.
8.    In the ASIF I costing US$20.0 million, a sum of US$15.7 million dollars was allocated to civil
works. Of the US$15.7 million dollars allocated to civil works, US$3.0 million was initially kept as a
reserve, while the remainder of US$12.7 million was allocated among the forty districts of Artnenia.
9.    The allocation of funds for the ASIF was based on a needs assessment carried out by a local NGO
during the ASIF Pilot Phase, using a number of social and economic criteria compiled by the NGO. The
allocation of funds was approved by the Government of Armenia at the establishment of the ASIF, along
with the no-objection of the World Bank.
10.   The ASIF Board of Directors in August 1998 proposed a reallocation of unspent ASIF funds. The
reallocation reflected the Government's strategy to direct resources to the earthquake zone. The World
Bank approved the reallocation contingent upon an agreement with the Government that funds taken from
marzes would be given back to them during the ASIF II. It is important to note that by 1998, the primary
administrative unit of Armenia had become the marz, and all district allocations were consolidated within
the marz structure.
11.   In April 1999, as the Credit was nearing its completion, ASIF management presented a second
reallocation of the uses of funds. This reallocation was a result of unspent funds in certain categories
(principally technical assistance), which were reallocated primarily into civil works. This reallocation did
not affect regional allocation of funds. In November 1999, the ASIF presented a third reallocation, that
most impacted operational costs as the ASIF neared the end of its first credit.
12.   The ASIF has spent US$11.57 million of the US$12.30 million available for civil works, with a
target of full disbursement by the end of the credit - estimated in May 2000. However, while there are still
funds available for civil works, the ASIF has overspent in certain marzes: Lori, Tavoush, Sunik, and
Yerevan. These funds were spent at the expense of other marzes, particularly Ararat, Armavir and
Gegharqunick.
- 76 -



13.   The overspending in certain marzes indicate: (a) the lack of planning in the approval of
microprojects; and (b) a spending strategy that assumed US$15.7 million would be available, leading to
comparative overspending in four marzes. The shortfalls in disbursements mentioned above will be rectified
under the ASIF II Project.
The ASIF II Project
14.    The main features of the allocation process under the ASIF II Project are set out below:
(i)    ASIF II funds will be primarily allocated by marz. The objective of this allocation is to ensure
regional equity in the use of ASIF II funds and to provide the basis for planning of ASIF expenditures by
marz. In addition, fixing such an allocation will mitigate political pressures to reallocate funds during the
project life. A further sub-division of these allocations to urban and rural areas within each marz was not
considered due to the lack of data at the marz level.
(ii)   The total funds available for regional allocation in ASIF II are divided into two categories: (i)
ASIF II marz allocations, excluding the Matching Fund; and (ii) "Adjustment Funds". The Matching
Fund will be based on an IDA contribution of US$2.71 million, and will be supplemented by an equivalent
amount from the sponsors, local communities and the Government. Although individual sponsors will
choose regions according to their perceptions of regional priorities, microprojects will be selected from a
list of projects ranked according to ASIF II appraisal criteria. In addition, the total sponsor contribution to
a particular marz cannot exceed 30 percent of the total allocated to that particular marz.
(iii)   The total amount available for marz allocations under the first category is estimated at
approximately US$16.40 million. The "Adjustment Funds" refer to funds that were underspent in various
marzes during ASIF I implementation, estimated at approximately US$1.45 million. Accordingly, marzes
that were disadvantaged during the ASIF I, will have funds equivalent to the shortfalls automatically added
to the marz allocations. These disadvantaged marzes are: Ararat, Armavir, Gegarqunick, Kotaik, Shirak,
and Vajoc Dzor. Together with these adjustment funds, the total amount available for marz allocations is
estimated at approximately US$17.85 million (excluding the matching funds mentioned above).
(iv)   For marzes outside Yerevan, the poverty targeting formula described below will be used to
calculate the allocation of funds, to ensure a greater shift of funds to these marzes. For the Yerevan region,
the allocation will be based on a share of 22.5 percent of the total allocation, as compared to approximately
26 percent of the amount disbursed under the ASIF I Project, as agreed during Negotiations.
(v)    The allocation to marzes outside Yerevan will, in the first instance, be based on two general
factors: (a) population; and (b) the poverty score computed from three poverty indicators and two regional
preference factors representing earthquake and border zones. The three poverty indicators are: (i) the
poverty incidence (head count index) or the proportion of the population below the national poverty line --
representing the extent or "quantity" of poverty; (ii) the severity index which is the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke
(FGT) measure P2 -- representing the intensity of poverty; and (iii) unemployment -- representing the
poverty of opportunity to secure a means of sustainable livelihood. Estimates for these indicators are taken
from the 1996/97 Household Survey conducted by the Department of Statistics, and can be updated when
more recent data becomes available. Estimates for the two regional preference factors reflect perceived
weights assigned to the earthquake and border zones. Thereafter, as mentioned in sub-paragraph (iii)
above, the adjustment funds will be added on.
- 77 -



(vi)   The formula for the allocation of funds per marz is as follows:
A is the allocation for micro-projects from the ASIF II budget,
Amarz is the allocation for a given marz;
Bmarz represents the deficit of funds to the marz from ASIF I;
Pmarz is the population of the marz;
Smarz is the poverty score for a marz.(which combines poverty indicators and regional
preferences)
The allocation of funds is determined by the following formula:
A..= A   Pmar: X Smarz  +Bmarz
mar: = Ay (Pmarz X Sm    Bm)
mar=
(vii)   The regional allocation of funds will be included in the Operational Manual. The regional
allocation according to the methodology agreed during Negotiations is set out below in Tables I, II, and III.
Disbursement of Funds
15.     The prioritization of funding for marzes will be carried out on a yearly basis and will be
integrated into the ASIF annual work program and budgets, which will be reviewed by the ASIF Board and
the Bank. The ASIF II operations will begin in the last two marzes where ASIF I was active. The ASIF
activities will then begin to cover the relatively destitute regions and progressively expand such activities
throughout the country. The ASIF will begin disbursing funds allocated to a marz once it begins to work
in a given marz. Specific allocations to microprojects within marzes are not made, as the ASIF Project is
demand-driven, and microprojects will be approved according to agreed appraisal criteria. The poverty
targeting strategy and the regional allocation of funds will be reviewed and revised as needed prior to the
Mid-Term review. Throughout the implementation period, the status of expenditure on agreed allocations
will be reflected in the Quarterly and Annual Reports to the Bank.
- 78 -



ARMENIA: POVERTY TARGETING STRATEGY
AGREED REGIONAL ALLOCATION OF ASIF II FUNDS (US$)
Table 1: Poverty Indicators and Regional Factors
For Marzes outside Yerevan
Poverty
Incidence  Severity of Unemployment  Earthquake   Border Zones
Marz        Population   (%)    Poverty (%)     (%)      Zones (Est.)    (Est.)
Aragacotn    166,700    51.10      8.51        21.70        1.00         1.00
Ararat       310,000    54.20     10.47        15.10        1.00         1.00
Armavir      321,100    38.10      5.76        22.70        1.00         1.00
Gegarqunick   277,600    48.10     8.53        17.20        1.00         1.05
Kotaik       328,900    62.40     13.45       27.40         1.00         1.00
Lori         394,100    51.50      8.91       35.40         1.10         1.00
Shirak       361,800    63.10     15.17        37.60        1.20         1.00
Sunik        163,600    47.10      8.11       40.40         1.00         1.10
Tavush       156,600    56.10     14.90        14.80        1.00         1.20
Vajoc Dzor    69,100    61.50     17.50        27.10        1.00         1.05
TOTALUAV    2,549,500   54.70     11.08        28.30        1.03         1.04
Source: Armenian State Department of Statistics, and World Bank, Improving Social Assistance
in Armenia, June 1999 (Report No. 19385-AM), Annex I, Tables 7 and 17.
Table 2: Normalized Poverty Indicators and Regional Factors
For Marzes outside Yerevan
Poverty  Severity of             Earthquake
Marz        Population Incidence   Poverty   Unemployment   Zones    Border Zones
Aragacotn    166,700    0.93       0.77        0.77         0.97         0.96
Ararat       310,000    0.99       0.94        0.53         0.97         0.96
Armavir      321,100    0.70       0.52        0.80         0.97         0.96
Gegarqunick   277,600    0.88      0.77        0.61         0.97         1.01
Kotaik       328,900    1.14       1.21        0.97         0.97         0.96
Lori         394,100    0.94       0.80        1.25         1.07         0.96
Shirak       361,800    1.15       1.37        1.33         1.17         0.96
Sunik        163,600    0.86       0.73        1.43         0.97         1.06
Tavush       156,600    1.03       1.34        0.52         0.97         1.15
Vajoc Dzor    69,100     1.12      1.58        0.96         0.97         1.01
TOTAUAV    2,549,500    1.00       1.00        1.00         1.00         1.00
- 79 -



Table 3: Poverty Scores and Resulting Allocations in US$
for Marzes outside Yerevan and Allocation for Yerevan
Poverty  P.Score x   Funds from  Funds for ASIF
Marz        Population   Score   Pop.    ASIF II Project  I shortfalls  Total for Marz
Aragacotn    166,700    0.880    146,744    713,076                  713,076
Ararat       310,000    0.880    272,911   1,326,162    131,000     1,457,162
Armavir      321,100    0.790    253,728    1,232,945   418,000     1,650,945
Gegarqunick   277,600    0.847    235,264    1,143,223  384,000     1,527,223
Kotaik      328,900    1.051    345,692    1,679,830    358,000     2,037,830
Lori         394,100    1.005    396,152    1,925,031               1,925,031
Shirak       361,800    1.196    432,561    2,101,956   146,038     2,247,994
Sunik        163,600    1.010    165,208    802,798                  802,798
Tavush       156,600    1.004    157,165    763,717                  763,717
Vajoc Dzor    69,100    1.128    77,970     378,881      10,000      388,881
TOTAL/AV    2,549,500   1.000   2,549,500   12,388,846    1,447,038    13,835,884
|Allocation for Yerevan (based on proportion in ASIF I expenditure):  4,016,869
-Total:                                                            17,852,753
-80 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
UPGRADING THE MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
1. Overview of the Management Information System
The Management Information System (MIS) presently used for the ASIF I project is essentially a
tool to collect, analyze, store and disseminate information that has been useful for decision-making in the
implementation of nearly 200 microproject to date, spread throughout Armenia. The MIS includes a
computerized information system, a set of procedures, and a delineation of functions of key ASIF officials
involved in the decision-making process. Through this device the ASIF has up-to-date information on its
operational activities and the status of the microproject implementation.
As a monitoring instrument, the MIS provides transparency and accountability of ASIF activities,
maintains data relevant for poverty targeting, and facilitates contracting and payment by storing
information on contractors, unit prices, and field progress. It tracks ASIF activities in the subproject cycle,
including basic microproject data and progress of works; provides timely reports to the management and
the staff of the ASIF; and signals unusual delays and cost overruns. The MIS is also a progress evaluation
tool that helps to detect errors and shortfalls during microproject implementation and to indicate necessary
mid-course corrections. The evaluation device can be used to assess the impact of the ASIF-fmanced
microprojects on the benefiting communities. The Management Information System is also used to
prepare and present progress reports to the ASIF heads, the ASIF Board, the World Bank and other
donors.
2. Upgraded MIS for the ASIF II Project
Building upon the experience gained in operating the current MIS, a number of upgrades will be
carried out under the ASIF II project to better assist and monitor project implementation, as well as to meet
the Bank's new reporting requirements, particularly the Project Management Reports (PMR). In broad
terms, the upgraded MIS will integrate general information on microprojects with the financial management
and cost accounting systems. As part of this process, a new integrated financial management system will
be introduced during the second half of year 2000. The system will comprise a financial accounting
module, suitable to meet ASIF statutory reporting requirements according to the Armenian accounting
regulation and to project reporting requirements (quarterly PMRs). A new feature in the upgraded MIS
will be the introduction of a cost accounting module. A cost accounting system (see section E and Annex 4
a) will be introduced to provide ASIF management and the Bank with a well organized information system
on microprojects to ensure greater cost effectiveness in the use of public funds in meeting the basic social
and economic infrastructure needs of the poor. Specifically, this system will: (i) provide information on the
full cost of projects, including ASIF overheads; (ii) help monitor the cost of microprojects (iii) provide a
framework for implementing cost efficiency measures; and (iv) provide the basis for formulating the
financial plans and the annual budgets.
Integration of Systems. To overcome the problems encountered hitherto in integrating the MIS
and accounting data systems, the ASIF II project will utilize a new Project Information System (PRINSY),
a software package, to replace the current accounting package (Dynamics) and the MIS developed
in-house. The PRINSY version 1.7 (February 2000) is a fully integrated, Windows 2000-based system,
featuring an MIS together with a financial accounting and a cost accounting module. The system, utilizing
both MS Access and MS Project, will run on a server and its various applications will be distributed to the
PCs of different end-users, including Finance and Administration, MIS and Technical Departments
- 81 -



(Microproject and Procurement). The system developed two years ago, is the result of continuous
improvements realized, capitalizing on the experience gained in similar projects implemented across and
outside the Region.
With the introduction of the cost accounting module, PRINSY will include three parts:
*   Project Management;
*   Finance and Administration; and
*   Cost Accounting.
Project Management. The system, covering all main aspects of project management and
administration in an effective and user-friendly manner, will efficiently support project implementation and
the smooth preparation of quarterly PMRs, ensuring accountability for the operations of the ASIF. The
information system will facilitate the preparation of the PMR by:
*   tracking the progress achieved (break-down by project activities/sub-activities);
*   monitoring physical and economic inputs/outputs (including unit costs and quantities -- actual and
planned); and
*  providing Bank-assisted project reporting aspects such as disbursement categories (including local,
foreign and ex-factory allotments), procurement methods and sources of financing on a quarterly,
annual and cumulative basis.
Finance and Administration. The new information system will be assisted by auxiliary tables
which include all necessary aspects of financial management: financial entities, type of financing (Grant,
Credit, etc.) as well as project components/sub-components as detailed in the PAD. The accounting
module is designed to maintain accounts in accordance with both Bank (cash/accrual) and local accounting
and reporting requirements. After a period of training and familiarization with the upgraded system, it is
expected that the ASIF will be able to prepare its first PMR starting with the accounting period ending June
30, 2001 and to regularly submit to the Bank PMRs on a quarterly basis thereon. This provision is
reflected in the Development Credit Agreemnent.
The reports that can be generated from the financial accounting module are:
3   Selected printouts from the General Ledger and Trial Balances;
*   Interim financial information (e.g. monthly report to the Executive Director);
*   Financial statements for statutory reporting: Balance Sheet, Income Statement; and
*   Project Management Reports.
Cost Accounting. The upgraded MIS will provide a set of cost accounting reports on a quarterly
basis, to provide the ASIF Management, the Governrent, and the Bank, an assessment of the cost
effectiveness in the use of public funds under ASIF II. These reports, containing texts and table
presentations, will form a part of the new system of quarterly reports to be prepared by ASIF. The tables
that can be generated from the cost accounting module are:
*   Statement on Social Impact: Cost Effectiveness Indicators by Project Typology;
* Assessment on Economic Impact: Use of Direct Resources by Project Typology; and
*   Statement on Overhead Costs and Use of Total Resources by Project Typology.
- 82 -



Access Levels. The access to the MIS will be governed by a privilege matrix, defining the levels of
access by different users: (i) active use for inputting/editing of data; (ii) read-only use; or (iii) no-access.
This would allow a separated and controlled access to the Accounting module (i.e. Journal recording,
posting to the General Ledger). Each accounting transaction records the user's ID, preventing unauthorized
access to the system and an adequate level of protection against the input of false data or the destruction of
records. At the same time, the data-sharing nature of the system involves a strict coordination and active
data exchange among its various users (primarily Finance and Administration and Management
Information System Departments). In this respect, the system should ensure reliability in information
storage and fast data processing.
3. Specific Functions of the MIS. The MIS will be used in a varied range of activities, the most
important ones of which are listed below:
-     to organize and manage ASIF microproject portfolio.
-      to appraise microproject according to the ASIF operational manual.
-     to pre-estimate microproject costs.
-      to rank and generate microproject prioritization tables.
-      to control microproject designs and budgets with a cost/efficiency approach.
-     to build and manage co-financing structures.
-      to control and follow up decisions of the approval committee.
-      to control and manage procurement processes.
-     to control, supervise and monitor microproject implementation phases.
-     to monitor post-implementation phases.
-     to organize and manage contracts (consultants and service providers).
-      to manage accounting and financial information according to financiers' requirements.
-     to manage payroll processes.
-     to monitor the full cost of microprojects.
-      to help develop a framework for implementing cost efficiency measures.
-      to manage and control fixed asset inventories.
-      to create and manage institutional performance indicators.
-      to generate reports for management purposes.
e   The MIS will consist of an integration of six subsystems : (1) General Auxiliary Tables; (2) Targeting
Strategy; (3) Subproject Cycle; (4) Finance and Administration; (5) Cost Accounting; and (6)
Information for Management.
- 83 -



Marageteng
a set of cla  s to wor t                                     Finance and t
*   The second sub-syte                                        Ad iF Fund Aion
Statgy Thilatru-yse  wilcnoiaeifomtoTrmmn ables                an protcoducefinancial
theMISll colc iformatnInfordo duon for                                     and r
Managementt
*   The first sub-system will help manage shared information between the five sub-systems and to establish
a     set of classifiers to work with reports, tables and queries.
A The second sub-system will help the ASIF to plana , control and monitor the ASIF Funds Allocation
Strategy. That sub-system will consolidate infonriation from many tables and produce financial
indicators.
*   The third sub-system will facilitatheAI work of ASIF technical officems. Along the  dicroproject cycle
the MIS will collect information in order to produtce operational and management formats and reports.
   The fourth subsystem will provide information orn accounting transactions generated during several
accounting events: (1) Payments to contractors, consultants and providers; (2) Salary payrnents for the
ASIF staff; (3) Acquisition of fixed assets and their depreciation process; and (4) the Petty Cash Fund.
Also the subsystem could help ASIF to manage contracts and to produce different kind of reports for
internal purposes and to informn about ASIF financial statements to donors and financiers.
i   The fifth subsystem will provide ASIF Management with: (1) a full composition of the direct costs of
nmiicroprojects; (2) an analysis of overhead expenditures; (3) a more realistic allocation of overhead
costs across microprojects, reflecting the cost of promotion, appraisal and supervision; and (4) the unit
costs of providing social infrastructure (cost per rnicroproject, cost per beneficiary, cost per unit of
pipeline rehabilitated etc.).
*   The sixth subsystem is a practical tool that collects and consolidates information from the above
mentioned sub-systems and generates special management indicators and reports.
The Finance and Administration sub-system will be designed to comply with the requirements of
World Bank Operational Procedures/Bank Policies 10.02 dated August 1997 and Republic of Armenia
legal requirements. It will include records, procedures and supporting internal controls to cover all
activities in connection with accomplishment of the objectives of the project. It will be based on PC-based
accounting software to be acquired by the project. It will incorporate the following:
- multi-currency accounting
- single input of data
-  alpha-numeric and case-discriminatory coding systems
-84-



-  report-writing facilities
-  optional auxiliary accounting modules (receivables, payables, etc.)
-  capable of producing Project Management Reports (PMRs)
-  user-friendliness (MS Windows driven or other suitable operating system)
The accounting module will cover the entire project i.e., all sources of funds for the project (e.g.:
Government of Armenia, World Bank, other co-financiers/donors) and all utilization of funds (Project
expenditures). The accounting system would be based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping and
fornats of the various accounting, records will include cash and bank books, journals, various ledgers, trial
balance, and voucher formats. The financial reports will include: (i) data for preparation of Withdrawal
Applications to be submitted to the World Bank for reimbursement of expenditure (Statement of
Expenditures - SOE), including Summary Schedules; (ii) annual Project Financial Statements (PFS); and
(iii) all the Project Management Reports (PMRs) to be used by project management to monitor project
performance. These reports include: (i) financial statements (e.g., sources and application of funds;
expenditure classified by project components, disbursement categories, expenditure types and implementing
agencies, and comparison with budgets; short-term forecasts of expenditure); (ii) monitorable indicators
(e.g. unit costs for key items and comparison with budgets; contracts management, etc.); and (iii)
Procurement monitoring reports.
The accounting system will conform to the relevant policies of the Republic of Armenia and the
implementing entities (i.e. charter), and will also conform to the relevant guidelines and operational policies
of the World Bank.
4. Technical Aspects of the MIS
The ASIF MIS is a n-tier system, having as a back-end the Microsoft SQL Server 7.0, and as a front-end,
Microsoft Access 2000 and/or Microsoft Visual Basic. The MIS will also have the capacity for on-line
WEB presentations, which includes information on the microprojects as well as main reporting. The server
part of the system runs on the Microsoft NT Server 4.0 and the user end could run on Microsoft Windows
NT Workstation 4.0/Windows 95/Windows 98.
ACTION PLAN
Action                                                     Responsibility          Date
Installation of the new MIS/Financial Management and Cost   Consultant         June 30, 2000
Accounting Systems
Approval of ASIF Operational Manual and Finance, Personnel  ASIF Board        By Effectiveness
and Administration Manual
Project Financial Management Training                    ASIF Management       July 15, 2000
MIS/Financial Management System fully tested and operational
(including Physical Monitorable Indicators and           ASIF Management   September 30, 2000
Procurement/Contract Management System)
Appointment of Auditors                                     ASIF Board       January 31, 2001
Preparation of first Project Management Report (PMR)     ASIF Management       June 30, 2001
- 85 -



Additional
Annex No.: 16
DECENTRALIZATION ACTION PLAN
Introduction
1.    The objective of the decentralization and institution building action plan is to present specific areas
of support under the proposed ASIF II Project for greater stakeholder participation and ownership at the
local level within the framework of the Government's decentralization program. This will be achieved
through:
* Developing partnerships at the local level between the local government authorities and communities
through effective targeting to improve planning, coordination, management, and information
dissemination activities.
* Enhancing greater stakeholder participation at the local level, by supporting the decentralization of
activities which will provide clearer roles and greater involvement for the local governments and
communities in the preparation, design, implementation, sustainability of microprojects and the
eventual transition to direct contracting of works.
* Institution building at the local level focusing on strengthening local government and communities in
decentralized planning and management of basic public services.
2.     The action plan draws from two studies carried out as part of project preparation; the Institutional
Assessment of Local Government and the Cost Effectiveness Analysis of the ASIF II Project. Specifically
these studies have provided valuable insights and analysis and provided specific recommendations on how
the ASIF II Project can assist local government and communities to identify, prepare, implement and
manage microprojects on a sustainable basis.
3.     The Local Government Structure. Armenia's local government structure comprises ten Regions,
including the City of Yerevan, and within these regions, a total of 930 City Councils. Of the latter, 47
cities have rather developed municipal structures that include such functions as finance, education,
architecture, sports and culture. The Ministry of Territorial Administration is charged with the oversight of
central government authority over the Regions, while the office of the Marzpet or regional Governor,
appointed by the Prime Minister is responsible for the administration within each region. The city councils
are headed by Mayors. Local government operations and delineation of functions are governed by two
pieces of legislation introduced in 1996 namely the Law on Local Self Government and the Law on
Elections of Local Self-Government and by the Armenian Law on Urban development. Since 1996 four
additional laws have been enacted related to the fiscal responsibilities of local authorities. These laws
relate to property tax, land tax, duties and fees, and equalization regarding transfer payments from the
State to the cities.
- 86 -



4.     The main sources of local budget revenue are land and property taxes. In the past the State funded
a limited amount of local capital expenditures through subventions to local government. Because of the
tight national budget there is a very limited amount of funding going only to small mountainous and border
communities. In villages the local tax base is almost non-existent, which makes it hard for mayors to do
budgeting and planning. Voluntary community contribution and unpaid labor is used for maintenance and
construction works. The situation is a little better in the cities because of the higher tax collection rate and
because mayors and staff are more skilled in financial planning.
5.    One of the responsibilities of the local authorities is community planning. According to the
Armenian laws "On Urban Development" and "On the local self-governments", all the processes related to
the urban planning activities are to be undertaken at the local level and from the local budget. Communities
should have a series of documents like comprehensive plan, land usage plan etc. approved by the GOA in
order to perform any settlement planning activities. The mayor is responsible for compiling the general
layout (comprehensive plan) of the community in accordance with the Armenian Law "On Local
Self-Govenmment" (article 30). Most of the existing city and community plans are outdated. They do not
take into consideration the developments of the market economy as well as changed social and economic
needs of the community members.
6.    Decentralization Initiatives. The Government of Armenia (GOA) has recently initiated
decentralization programs in several fields, such as education, health care, and irrigation. These pilot
activities are not encompassed in a larger, comprehensive decentralization policy, which is still to be
developed by the GOA. Starting with the education sector, in May 1999. A new Law on Education was
passed to provide more autonomy to schools and to increase parental and community contribution for non
curriculum activities. The law established the necessary regulatory framework for improving accountability
through decentralized school govemance arrangements including schools councils. Under this Law, public
schools will be transferred to local governments through management contracts, entrusting them with the
management, operation and physical maintenance of the facilities. In the past, local governments could not
assume maintenance responsibility for schools rehabilitated with the ASIF funding, because those remained
State property.
7.    The Ministries of Health and of Territorial Administration are discussing the possibility of creating
inter-community unions, that would bring together local governments from the conumunities that are using
the same clinic. It has been the case that several villages would use the same medical facility, but only one
local authority would fund its operation and maintenance. Under the inter-community unions scheme, local
governments agree to share the costs. ASIF will benefit from the larger ownership of the health premises
and shared maintenance costs.
8.    The State has also started a partial decentralization of the water distribution system, by passing fee
collection and maintenance services to local administrations in cities and larger communities. According to
Mayors' Association, without the right of local governments to disconnect debtors, partial decentralization
yields little results.
9.     The establishment of the Water Users Associations (WUA) is another government initiative that
has been made as a pilot with the focus of decentralizing the responsibility for the operation and
maintenance and water charge collection. This has been carried out under the Bank supported Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (IRP). Rehabilitation of the small scale irrigation facilities by the ASIF II Project
would complement the Government's efforts to invest in the irrigation water distribution in the Republic.
Investments under the ASIF II project would allow farmers to maintain and increase the production
capacity in some of the poorest regions whit low agricultural production . A secure irrigation water supply
- 87 -



would also improve nutrition, create employment and increase rural incomes.
Key Issues in Decentralization in relation to the ASIF II Proiect
10.   The Government's decentralization initiatives provides a good opportunity for the ASIF II Project
to develop greater stakeholder participation at the local level in the preparation, design, implementation,
and sustainability of microprojects. However, a number of problems areas remain:
*   lack of a comprehensive decentralization policy and in particular, the lack of a clear delineation of roles
and rights of cities, prevents the empowerment of communities and is not conducive to a change in
mentality towards local self-reliance;
*   limited local capacity and resources for carrying out local govemment activities, especially at the
village level;
*  partial measures in undertaking decentralization initiatives leave unanswered the question of ownership.
For instance, only operation and maintenance of schools is transferred to local governments, while the
ownership is still retained by the State. Local authorities cannot sell or demolish the premises.
Furthermore they do not have the capacity to provide more effective support to school related issues
within communities;
*   although the authority for fee collection for potable water use and maintenance service of the
distribution systems has been transferred to local administrations in cities and larger communities, they
have not been given any coercive power and cannot disconnect bad debtors. This situation leaves
community authorities with little leverage and no chance to make water systems cost-efficient;
*   the Government "recommends" the amount of fee to be collected per cubic meter of water used for
irrigation. It is based on equity needs and not on economic rationale. Therefore collected funds usually
do not cover maintenance costs. Furthermore, the local govenmuents and communities do not have the
capacity to follow-up maintenance and management of irrigation facilities;
=   the Ministry of Education has its own interpretation of the Governmental Resolutions on school
decentralization, being skeptical about the capacity of local authorities to operate and maintain the
facilities. This seeming conflict may adversely affect the ability of ASIF II to support decentralized
school projects and their subsequent sustainability;
*   better coordination with line ministries is needed to ensure consistency of the ASIF II activities with the
government policies and investment priorities. In addition there is a great need to substantially improve
information dissemination and outreach to local communities;
*   mayors in small communities often act without a real knowledge of current Armenian laws and State
decrees. Nevertheless they have the legal power and authority in the community that could be used to
mobilize resources and promote ASIF II micro-projects; and
*   informal groups are limited to school parent advisory committees and mayoral informal advisors. Other
indigenous informal citizen groups are a rarity in small communities.
- 88 -



The role of the ASIF II
11.   Addressing the above problem areas will no doubt require the development of a comprehensive
decentralization program by the GOA. In the meantime the ASIF II Project can contribute to this endeavor
by providing support in the areas of partnership development, project participation and ownership,
institution building and community outreach. The first approach is to build upon the capacity that already
exists. Donors, NGOs, National Associations, users unions are developing capacities that are relevant to
the ASIF work. Second, the ASIF needs to assess the level of existing capacity after determining the local
counterpart, and decide on the most effective and appropriate way to improve it. Experts/trainers from
Mayors, or Financial Directors Association, or other NGOs could be used, depending on specific needs.
Donor Participation
12.   The Decentralization Action Plan outlined below complements donor involvement in Annenia in a
number of local government and community activities. The Action Plan will be carried out in close
coordination with USAID in particular. USAID has two technical assistance programs that are relevant to
ASIF II. The first is the Local Government Training Center at the Armenian School of Public
Administration. The center conducts long term training of local government professionals in the areas of
financial management and budgeting. ASIF II can rely on professional staff capabilities in those cities that
have participated in the program. The second is the creation of the National Finance Officers Association
and Mayors Association. Each association has training capabilities and information dissemination
programs for local government officials and can provide services to the ASIF. The ASIF II Project will
also complement programs of other donors such as SC, OXFAM, and UNDP.
Action Plan
13.   The Action plan will help communities and local governments respond to particular needs and
fimctions associated with Microprojects, as well as address the generic needs and priorities for local
development with the objective of strengthening partnerships and increasing effectiveness. The Action Plan
provides an integrated institutional framework for addressing the above noted problems, focusing on the
enhancement of structures, systems and procedures both at the ASIF PIU level as well as at the local level
and related capacity building in support of these activities.
- 89 -



Objective        Specific Actions                             Outcomes/Outputs
Building         ASIF Institutional Structure
partnerships and   Establishment of a Community Outreach and
stakeholder      Promotion Unit in the ASIF responsible for:  1. A Community Outreach and Promotional Unit
participation at the carrying out institutional assessment at local level able to carry out its functions and responsibilities
local level     to identify key stakeholders and gather       effectively.
information on: (i) their involvement in the  2. Number of stakeholders that participated in the
community; (ii) respective roles in the LG or  institutional assessment during project preparation.
community association; (iii) capacity building  3. Feedback from key stakeholders on: a) the
needs; and (iv) information needs.           effectiveness of coordination efforts by the ASIF; b)
Enhancement of Participatory Mechanisms:   levels of satisfaction regarding their participation in
- Design effective mechanisms to actively involve  the microproject cycle; and c) levels of satisfaction
LG authorities and local community associations  regarding information dissemination efforts.
at all levels in the ASIF micro-project cycle.  4. Presence of the LG representatives and
- Convene a series of community meetings on a    community associations in the IA.
regular basis between the LG authorities,    5. Number of projects jointly prepared by the LG and
communities, and ASIF staff.                the community.
- Establish regular working level contacts with the 6. Number of meetings convened between the local
relevant line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies    government, communities, and ASIF staff.
and Bank project management units.           7. Number of meetings between ASIF staff, line
- Disseminate information to key stakeholders at  ministries, NGOs, donor agencies and Bank project
the local level covering: (i) objectives, activities   management units.
and related procedures of ASIF II; and (ii) current
I sector reforms.
- 90 -



Enhance project  ASIF Institutional Strengthening
ownership and    - Strengthen the Appraisal Unit in the     l. Satisfactory reports by ASIF follow-up engineers
sustainability  Microproject Department to carry out effective    on operations and maintenance of facilities and
pre-sustainability assessments of microprojects.   transmission of such information to the Bank in the
- Develop the capacity of the newly created  quarterly reports.
Procurement Department.                    2. Number of trained LG and community members
- Strengthen the Appraisal and Follow-Up Units to on quality assessment.
ensure good quality of works.               3. Satisfactory feedback by communities on the
- Strengthen the Follow-Up Unit to carry out post  quality of works.
sustainability assessments of MPs.         4. Number of plans prepared jointly on raising local
Improvement of Procedures and Systems       contribution for project sustainability.
- Design improved section on project sustainability 5. Number of contacts documented by the promotion
in MP Appraisal reports to include a specific  team on initiatives to include line items in the local
implementation plan for sustainability.    budget for operations and maintenance expenditures.
- Enforcement of Maintenance Agreements on    6. The level of community contributions to
micro-project facilities entered into between the   micro-project financing.
LG and the ASIF.                           7. Feedback from local authorities and communities
- Include as part of the civil works bidding  on project ownership and maintenance issues during
package norms and standards for every type of    project implementation.
work.                                       8. Post project feedback from the local authorities
- Promote the inclusion of a line item in the local  and communities.
budget specifically for project operation and  9. Number of training programs carried out on
maintenance.                               maintenance issues.
- Initiatives by ASIF staff for mobilizing and use  10. Number of workshops and seminars convened to
of community contributions in a flexible manner  discuss operations and maintenance issues.
based on their respective capacities to pay.
- Development of effective systems for monitoring
project sustainability.
Technical Assistance
- Provide ongoing supervision of the quality of
works at the local level by a qualified local
supervisor and by the Follow-Up engineers.
- Provide ongoing TA at the ASIF to be carried out
by a part-time advisor and full-time supervisor on
quality of works, procurement, operations and
maintenance issues.
- Enhance the capacity of LG and communities to
assess the quality of works to better supervise MP
implementation.
- Support the Mayors and the lAs to jointly
prepare a plan on how to raise local contribution
and on how to sustain the project over a period of
3-5 years.
- Train and disseminate information to LG and
I community associations on maintenance issues.
- 91 -



Capacity building  ASIF Structure and Procedures
at local level   - Establish a Training and Technical Assistance   1. Timely and effective implementation of training
focusing on      Coordination Unit in the SIF II to handle the  programs responding to changing needs.
decentralized    coordination, implementation and supervision of  2. Training modules and plans regularly updated to
planning and    the project's training and TA activities.     meet the changing demands.
management       - Coordinate activities with other agencies  3. MIS generated reports providing information on
systems.         implementing capacity building programs at the   the project's training activities including training
local level.                                expenditures, profiles on participants and training
- Develop flexible and effective training modules  agencies.
and plans.                                  4. Number of training programs and trained
- Establish a training monitoring module in the    beneficiaries in the following fields:
MIS to track training programming activities.  - basic concepts and applications of property tax,
Microproject Planning and Management        land tax, duties and fees, and equalization;
- Strengthen the capacity of LG and communities  - financial management, budgeting, and asset
in the preparation, design, implementation and    management;
maintenance of microprojects                 - preparation, design, implementation, and
Local Government Functions                  maintenance of MPs;
- Introduce LG to the basic concepts, and practical - school principal training;
applications of the laws relating to property tax,   - school accountant training; and
land tax, duties and fees, and equalization (Re.    - school council training.
Transfer payments).                          5. Technical assessments of benefits and improved
- Enhance the capacity of local governments in    performance resulting form training programs.
financial management, budgeting, and asset   6. Number of workshops at the local level on
management.                                  management and maintenance issues.
Community-Based Association Training         7. Feedback from LG and communities on the
Initial Training: Support the Government's   effectiveness of the project's capacity training efforts.
decentralized school governance under school  8. Post evaluation of the maintenance of facilities
MPs:                                        financed under the project.
- School principal training in financial    9. Quarterly reporting on training activities to
management and accounting.                   provide the status of activities, issues, and revisions
- Training of school council members in the  in the training plan.
formation and operation of school councils.
- Training to school accountants in financial
management and accounting.
Subsequent Training: Support other Government
programs to include other sector-specific
microprojects (i.e. water, primary health care).
- 92 -



Improve          ASIF Structure and Procedures
information      - Establish a Community Outreach and Public  1. An effective Community Outreach and Public
dissemination and Relations Department in the ASIF.           Relations Unit in ASIF.
community        - Develop a communication strategy for ensuring  2. Establishment of information gathering systems
outreach        inter-sectoral and inter-agency coordination.  within ASIF receiving frequent updates of changes
- Set-up mechanisms for regularly receiving  in government sectoral policies with implications for
information from line ministries and central  ASIF 11 activities.
government on legislative changes and sector  3. Establishment of a communication strategy for
priorities and policies.                    improving inter-sectoral and inter-agency
- Organize regular training/information sessions   coordination.
for SIF II staff to provide them with a timely  4. Timely dissemination of information and delivery
update on the major developments in the relevant  of training to communities.
fields.                                      5. MIS generated reports on information
- Maintain close collaboration with Bank PIUs    dissemination and related training programs.
implementing projects in the education, irrigation  6. Number of training/information sessions
and water/sanitation sectors.                organized for ASIF staff.
Community Outreach Program                   7. Number of MPs appraised consistent with current
- Disseminate information to LGs, communities   government sectoral programs.
and contractors ranging from basic concepts of the 8. Number of meetings held between ASIF and
ASIF to technical and management issues.     contractors.
- Create a forum for regular information exchange 9. Feedback from contractors on the usefulness of
between ASIF and contractors on technical issues. forums conducted with ASIF staff.
- Initiate workshops to provide a forum for  10. Number of workshops conducted between
discussing major issues of common interest among ministries, NGOs and other agencies.
the Ministry representatives, NGOs and other  11. Feedback from relevant stakeholders on the
agencies.                                    usefulness of ASIF information dissemination and
communication strategy.
- 93 -



Additional
Annex No.: 17
ASIF II TRAINING PROGRAM
Field of Training    Number of      Participants      Training         Duration        Timetable        Unit Cost      |Total Cost
|Participants                     I Institution                                      in USD
I. Local Level Institutional Strengthening
1. Local Government Training
Financial                           L.G. staff (deputy  Specialized    3 weeks         To be completed   $45,452        $409,0682
Management,        1660             mayor and budget institution                       before ASIF
Budgeting, taxation                 person)                                            promotion begins
and Asset
Management.
2. Community-Based Training
Sector Specific Training for Microprojects
A) Training for School Microprollects
Training for School  210 (1 pers/ schl)  School principals  Center for Ed.  3 weeks    To be completed   $4,876 per marz $48,765
Principals                                            Reforms                          before the bidding
phase
Training on School  1050 (5 persons   School Council   Center for Ed.  7 days          To be completed   $1,161 per     $243,825
Council Formation   per school)     members           Reforms                          before the bidding  school
Phase
Training for School  210 (One person   School         Local accounting  3 months       To be carried out  $522 per school $109808
Accountants        per school)      accountants       or audit firm                    before the
completion of the
microproject
B) Other Social Sector Specific Training                                                                                $247,406
l                                                 l T -  I  I      ISubtotal:       $649,804
II. Implementing Agency and Contractor Training                                                                        $39,476
Subtotal:
TOTAL COST (Local Gov't, Community and Implementing Agency/Contractors)                                                 $1,098,348
111. ASIF 1I Staff Training
A. Initial Training
Community          3 persons        Institutional     Consultantvlnstitut 3 weeks      2nd and 3rd                      PHRD financing
outreach,                           Support Dep. Staff ion                             quarter of year
participation,                                                                         2000
training coordination,
Monitoring and
evaluation
Quality of works   14 persons       Microproject      Consultantllnstitut 3 weeks      2nd and 3rd                      PHRD financing
Department Staff  ion                             quarter of year
2000
Procurement        3-4 persons      Procurement Unit ConsultanfInstitut 3 weeks        2nd and 3rd                      PHRD financing
staff            ion                              quarter of year
2000
Financial          3 persons        Finance/Admin.   Consultant/Institut 2 weeks       2nd and 3rd                      PHRD financing
Management                          Director,        ion                               quarter of year
Accountant. and                                   2000
Procurement.
Officer
Cost-Accounting    3 persons        Finance/Admin.   Consultant/Institut 2 weeks       2nd and 3rd                      PHRD financing
Director Chief    ion                             quarter of year
Accountant and                                    2000
Accounting
Officer
Environmental      14 persons        Microproject     Consultant/Institut 2 weeks      2nd and 3rd                      PHRD financing
Standards                           Depart. Staff    ion                               quarter of year
2000
Subtotal: $200,000
B. On-going Training                                                                                                    $212,249
- 94 -



An estimate of 830 local governments will be covered during the life span of the ASIF II project and about 1,660 persons (2 individuals per L.G.)
will be trained.
The cost of local government training will be about $45,452 per marz with a total of $409,068 for 9 marzes. Since UNDP has carried out an
intensive program on local government training in the Lori marz, this region covering about 100 communities will not be included in the ASIF local
government training.
The cost of the school principal training will be about $2,438 per group of up to 20 persons, or $4,876 per marz (assuming two groups per marz)
with a total of $48,765 for 10 marzes.
The cost of the training is $1,220 per school (5 trainees). A total of 210 school microprojects will be implemented over 6 years. Some $256,200
will be needed to train the council members in all these schools.
One accountant per school will be trained. The cost oftraining one school accountant is $522. To train 210 accountants a total amount of$109,808
is required.
On-the-job training will be provided to Implementing Agencies in the areas covering the preparation, design, procurement, implementation and
maintenance of microprojects. Additional training will be provided based on needs assessed during project implementation.
On-the-job, ongoing training will be provided by foreign and local experts in the areas ofquality of works, procurement, MIS and cost accounting
systems. Additional training will be provided on the basis of perceived needs during implementation.
- 95 -



Additional
Annex No.: 18
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION MEASURES AND REVIEW CHECKLISTS
LOCAL HEALTH POSTS MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                 Impacts                           Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Contamination from waste materials    *Protection of soil surfaces during construction;
(construction and medical)           control and daily cleaning of construction sites;
provision of adequate waste disposal services
Water Resources       *Clogging of drainage works          *Special attention to drainage; proper disposal
*Decline in water quality due to      of oil and other hazardous materials; adequate
contamination                        sanitation and disposal system for waste
*Introduction of hazardous wastes
Air Quality           *Dust during construction            oDust control by water or other means;
*Degraded interior air quality (caused by   appropriate design and siting subproject
construction works, evapordtion from
medicines and chemical substances)
oOdor problems
Acoustic Environment  oNoise disturbance of natural habitats    oRestrict construction to certain hours
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats      oDisturbance of natural habitats     oMinimize loss of natural vegetation during
construction; consideration of alternative sites;
Fauna and Flora       oLoss or degradation of vegetation    various special measures for alternative sites;
oDisruption or destruction of wildlife  various special measures for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        oDebris                              oCleaning-up of construction sites; provision of
Landscape                                                   adequate solid waste disposal systems
Historical/Cultural Sites *Degradation of sites            *Consideration of alternative sites; special
oDisturbance to structures            measures to project buildings and other
cultural resources/areas
Human Health          oConstruction accidents              *Specify designed systems fore disposal of
*Medical wastes from health posts     medical waste
Human Communities    *Involuntary resettlement             *Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
oLosses of buildings, property, or    community participation in environmental
economic livelihood                  assessment
oDisruption due to greater traffic loads
- 96 -



EDUCATION FACILITY MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                  Impacts                           Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                  *Contamination from waste materials   *Protection of soil surfaces during construction;
control and daily cleaning of construction sites;
provision of adequate waste disposal services
Water Resources        *Clogging of drainage works          *Special attention to drainage; proper disposal
*Decline in water quality due to     of oil and other hazardous materials; adequate
contamination                       sanitation and disposal system for waste
*Introduction of hazardous wastes
Air Quality            *Dust during construction            *Dust control by water or other means;
*Degraded interior air quality (caused    appropriate design and siting subproject
by construction works)
*Odor problems
Acoustic Environment   *Noise disturbance of natural habitats   eRestrict construction to certain hours
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats       *Disturbance of natural habitats     *Restrict construction to certain hours
Fauna and Flora        *Loss or degradation of vegetation   eMinimize loss of natural vegetation during
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife  construction; consideration of alternative sites;
various special measures for alternative sites;
various special measures for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and         *Debris                              *Cleaning-up of construction sites; provision of
Landscape                                                    adequate solid waste disposal systems
Historical/Cultural Sites  *Degradation of sites            *Consideration of alternative sites; special
*Disturbance to structures           measures to project buildings and other
cultural resources/areas
Human Health           *Construction accidents              *Specify designed systems fore disposal of
*Medical wastes from health posts    medical wastes
Human Communities      *Involuntary resettlement            *Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
*Losses of buildings, property, or   community participation in environmental
economic livelihood                 assessment
oDisruption due to greater traffic loads
- 97 -



WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
A. WATER SUPPLYMICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                Impacts                           Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Degradation of soil cover         *Protection during construction; re-vegetation
or physical stabilization services
Water Resources       *Contamination of water resources   *Adequate protection form livestock; minimal
sOver-exploitation of aquifers      distance from human settlements and
*Inadequate wastewater disposal     agricultural areas; regional water use planning;
*Introduction to hazardous wastes   proper drainage near pumping stations;
*Creation of stagnant water pools   community participation; link to sanitation
micro-projects
Acoustic Enviromnent   *Noise disturbance from pump if near a eSiting studies
home
Biolo2ical Environment
Natural Habitats      *Disturbance of natural habitats    *Siting studies
Fauna and Flora       *Loss or degradation of vegetation  *Siting studies; protection of vegetation during
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife    construction
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        *Marred landscapes                  *Cleaning-up of construction sites
Landscape             oDebris
Human Health
*Waterbome diseases                *Correct design and adequate training; testing
oChemnical imbalances in delivery   procedures
system
Human Communities
olnvoluntary resettlement          oCompensation per OD 4.20
oLoss of buildings or property
- 98-



WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
B. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATIONMICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                 Impacts                           Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Increase of soil erosion           *Proper siting of irrigation suprojects; extension
*Soil water-logging as a result of   and training in crop selection and agricultural
improper drainage                  technology; careful design and appropriate
*Increased salinization              selection of irrigation systems; adequate
drainage
Water Resources       *Water quality degradation in ponds    *Control of agrochemical use; proper design of
and reservoirs                     canals; monitoring of water quality; operation
eDeoxygenation of receiving water   and maintenance plan; regional water use plans
*Clogging of canals from weeds
*Inefficient water flow because of
heavy sedimentation
*Degradation of water systems
receiving irrigation waters by
nutrients, agrochemicals and salts
*Depletion of aquifers from
over-exploitation
eDisturbances to flow regimes
Biological Environment                                     *Consideration of alternative sites; select
Natural Habitats       *Disturbance of natural habitats     appropriate design and crops
*Disturbance of protected areas
*Provision of corridors of habitat for movement
Fauna and Flora        *Algae blooms, proliferation of aquatic   of animals
weeds
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment                                        *Education in proper sanitation and health
Human Health           *Risk of waterbome diseases from    practices; avoidance of stagnant waters;
artificial water flows             adequate treatment of irrigation waters; careful
*Disease transmission from human and   management of pesticides; integrated pest
animal waste deposits in irrigation  management (IPM) programs; protection of
waters used on agriculture         canals from livestock
*Toxicity of pesticides
eAdequate compensation as per OD 4.20; good
Human Communities    *Involuntary resettlement              consultation and participation with affected
*Loss of property                    communities; consideration of cumulative
*Conflicts over water use rights    impacts
*Multiple land use demands on      oPolitical and social problems associated with
restricted water sources           upstream land use and pollutant discharges
99 -



WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
C. DOMESTIC WASTEWATER SEWAGE MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                Impacts                           Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Degradation of soil cover         *Erosion control during construction
Water Resources       *Point soil pollution at discharge of  *Select appropriate technology for wastewater
pipe                               treatment; settling pond, screens, or aeration
oWater quality degradation          systems; siting studies; incorporation into
(Deoxygenation) in receiving surface    larger wastewater systems; adequate training
waters                            in maintenance of latrines or disposal systems;
*Contamination of subsurface water  alternative siting; monitoring programs
resources
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats                                          *Altemative site
*Disturbance of natural habitats
Fauna and Flora                                           *Alternative site
*Loss or degradation of vegetation
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Aesthetics and                                            *Include odor-control technology in design
Landscape             *Unpleasant odors
Human Health                                             eSelect appropriate technology; training and
*Disease transmission               monitoring programs, community
eAccident risk during construction  participation, operation and maintenance plans
*Sewer gas leaks
*Improper use of night soil from
composting toilets
Human Communities                                         *Adequate consultation and participation of all
oImpacts may be concentrated        potentially affected communities
downstream in other communities
- 100-



SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                Impacts                           Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Point-source pollution from landfill   *Adequate siting studies; good design standards;
*Seepage of contaminants into aquifers   consideration of alternative sites; ensure
*Contamination from clandestine     adequate drainage; community participation;
dumping                            training
Air Quality           *Particulate contamination from     *Spread and cover garbage at landfill site;
burning garbage                    prohibit or minimize burning design and siting
*Increase in haze and smog          subproject
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats      *Disturbance or loss of natural habitats  *Adequate siting studies
Fauna and Flora       *Loss or degradation of vegetation  oAdequate siting studies
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        *Unpleasant odors                   *Provide complete collection and disposal
Landscape             *Marred landscapes near landfill site    service; pilot collection systems; cost
*Garbage littered about in towns from    recuperation; proper design of collection or
inefficient collection services    disposal systems; recycling programs;
community participation
Human Health          *Methane and other noxious chemicals  * Separate disposal system for medical or
emitted                            hazardous wastes; gas recovery systems;
*Disease transmission from animal and   safety procedures implemented; training of
insect vectors                     workers and beneficiaries; operation and
oHazardous particulates emitted during   maintenance plans
burning
*Safety and health hazard from medical
and industrial wastes
Human Communities    *Involuntary resettlement            oCompensation as per OD 4.20; control of
oUnpleasant living conditions adjacent   zoning; attention to route selection for waste
to site (e.g., frequent movement of  transfer vehicles
trucks)
- 101 -



ENVIRONMENTAL 1REVIEW CHECKLIST
Microproject                                Microproject #
Community                                   Marz
Does the microproject
Present                         Necessary mitigation    contain the necessary
Environmental           Impacts Description of impacts  measures                 mitigation measures?
Component
1. Soil Implementation    Yes_                                                   Yes__
phase                   No _                                                     No _
Exploitation phase      Yes__                                                    Yes_
No_                                                      No-
2. Water Implementation   Yes_                                                   Yes_
phase                   No_                                                      No _
Exploitation phase      Yes__                                                    Yes._
No                                                      No__
3. Air Implementation   Yes_                                                     Yes_
phase                   No _                                                     No  -
Exploitation phase      Yes__                                                     Yes-_
No                                                      No  -_
4. Flora and Fauna      Yes                                                      Yes_
Implementation phase    No                                                       No _
Exploitation phase      Yes__                                                    Yes_
N o -    _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  N o   -_
5. Esthetics and landscape Yes_                                                  Yes_
Implementation phase    No -_ .                                                  No _
Exploitation phase      Yes_                                                     Yes_
No                                                      No  -
6. Human health         Yes                                                      Yes_
Implementation phase    No__                                                     No_
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                      Yes___
No _                             __   _  _  _   _     _ No   -
7. Human settlements    Yes_                                                     Yes_
Implementation phase    No                                                       No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                      Yes _
No                                                      No__
CONCLUSIONS OF THE APPRAISAL ENGINEER with regards to:
1. Scale of impacts on the enviromnent caused by the proposed microproject;
2. Incorporation of obligatory mitigation measures, which were not primarily included in the proposed
microproject;
3. Realistic possibility of mitigating the negative impacts;
4. Necessity of applying Limited Environmental Assessment for the microproject;
5. Transfer of microproject to the second phase of appraisal.
Appraisal engineer
Date                                        Signature
- 102 -



I



MAP SECTION






IBRD 29596
4                                oLSeo,            4                                                      46--                                                   4'                                          :.,       T
GEORGIA                                                                                                                                GEORGI .   . 'An,'   E
T~~~aaop-kq                                                                                                                                                 UKRANE~~0                                         RZALITA
. .oTashir AloJverdi                                   oyemoberian    .                -                                                                                                      '~'~>'~* / UKRANE b  RUSSIAN
0Toshr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MTV ~EDERATION\
8 9 t                                   t--  S  F ST  V U S H    - ? M/NGECHAURSKOYE                                                                                                                           Are!
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T;oKnazpLL                                                  ,f  '                                                         -5eo9 
'q ~V'." >   0As hosRSVL O                             R .    J                                                                                                                                                                                      -NTAN
'                                                                                                                                          F- -   '                                                      RAN
40A                   KI- k I. i                                                                                                                                                     A REP4                ' '
+w>. oVedi7                                                                                                               A                                ' (GL%$  t   RCiON4GAR BUDIE
t-_4   ,         _w roc                             JrV AkhkBAIJ                               AZE RBAIrdN
.t                                      HR                             0 rG                                                          A     K     .-- 
ARAGATZOTN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                                                                                        REI RRAOTR                      JKESA
S.          KJ
~~~~ILMC, Te.....Kadzh                                                             - KPNt 
/h Mr  s SHIRAK                                               Olijoc 8  RPBI                 ,'Nl                                                                                ' AS T AR SKR PAN O F   A RMMN  REPUAED
0   R  ~        ~        ~        oA  vA-fG   E   G,n, A    Rr K    V'""                                                                                    REm
GsGup u,/  Mcmyrl or   M ,  ?     Ao                                   ''_o Kmsnooe0          .d                                                                                    0 lEgri  t;VLG
or sey                                                    es>r    xment Cr \ ,  |9    <>                     A        To ZERBAIJAN
ARAGATZON                                                                                                                                                                        PA RD                                             0 '
Ao                               ARKUN                    Me                                                                                     AR 'OUNY1
YERIVA   N.                      Moore                                                                         RES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NERVATOIRS OLNARE
roiodzinO YE~VAN                                                     ,-                                                                        0   SELETED TOWN/VILLAGE
ARMAVIR@AAW                                                                                   a                                                              REGION (MARC) CAPITAA SO
TU.,RKEY          R< e                        4                                       0OTCTI            Mcnn        ' 
DoIoeo~~~~ ~~                                                                                                                                     NATIONA. CAPITAL~~~~V.i
7   NACHIRTCON MARL)SODNARtL
W"    Ti ~~~~~~~ d-'IMc                                                                                                        N
c'6r,  -           .                                                              NACOFCHEANAN
2,  o e,eedroyRPBLCT-'e                                                                                                                                                                             0       10 20       3D         3D        45M0mK 5    9
,epo,715oA0.dRorO  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,~bd
44      ~       4/                                                                                                                                                     7                                                       48.
MAT 19988



