Page  1
February
13, 2001
 
Mr. Vartan Khachatrian
Minister of Finance and Economy
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Yerevan,
Republic of Armenia
Re:
REPUBLIC OF  ARMENIA: United Kingdom Grant for Co-financing of 
Social Investment Fund II Project
-
Grant Number TF024403
Dear Mr.
Khachatrian:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(the
Association) to indicate the Association
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds
provided by the United Kingdom, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one
million, one hundred and seventy six thousand Sterlings
(GBP
1,176,000) (the Grant) to 
the Republic of Armenia
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you,
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Nicolas Mathieu
Acting Director for Armenia
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA:
By
/s/
Vartan Khachatrian
Minister of Finance and Economy
Date:
March
29,
2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to co-finance the Armenia Social Investment Fund 
II Project, described in Schedule
2
of the Development Credit Agreement dated May
19, 
2000
between the Republic of Armenia and the International Development Association
(Credit Number 3348 AM) which has the main aim to assist the Recipient in its 
continuing endeavor to improve living standards of the lower income groups among the
Armenian population and strengthen institutions at the local level. The activities 
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) 
Provision of support to local level institutional strengthening which 
includes training programs focusing on specific areas identified during project
Page  2
preparation in support of local governments at the city and village levels as well as
schools officials and school council members involved in micro-projects. In 
particular, training will be provided for local governments at the city and village
levels on financial management, budgeting, taxation and asset management and for
community based organizations and community members involved in school micro-projects 
on the financial management and accounting, school leadership and management. At a 
later stage, the program may include other community sector specific training
(i.e. 
water primary health care Centers). Such programs will be designed to support the 
Recipient
’s development agenda in these sectors, depending on the scope and depth of 
such Programs.
(b) 
Provision of  support to the Project Management Unit through technical 
assistance  and training for the Armenian Social Investment Fund
(ASIF). Specifically, 
technical services of foreign and local advisors and supervisors will be financed in
the areas of quality of works, procurement, Management Information Systems
(MIS) and 
cost accounting systems, Micro-project design and supervision and compliance with the 
Operational Manual. In addition,  training will be provided to the ASIF staff on a 
range of topics identified on the basis of perceived needs during ASIF I
implementation and ASIF II preparation. This will cover participatory community 
development, institutional assessment, capacity needs assessment, effective technical
designs, quality of works, operations and maintenance, project supervision and
monitoring techniques and environmental standards.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request;
(d) from 
time to time exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and
results of the Activities; and
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable the 
Association to visit the territory of the Republic of Armenia for purposes related to
the Grant.
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the
Association shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Association promptly upon
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this
Annex.
 
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
%
of
Allocated
(in Serlings
Expenditures
Item
equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
411,600
100%
(2)
Training
764,400
100%
TOTAL
1,176,000
For the purpose of this paragraph the term
"training" means expenditures for Local 
Level Institutional Strengthening activities
(i.e. training to local governments and 
to community based organization and training to ASIF staff).
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
Page  3
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the
Association;
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory 
of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Association for services supplied from such territories;
or
(iv)
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment, to the
Association
’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 
2005
or such later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the
Recipient
(the Closing Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date 
for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal
application is received by the Association within four months after the Closing Date,
after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account
shall be canceled; and
(c)
If, in the Association’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any 
of the items in the table in paragraph
4.2. above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Association may, by written notice to the Recipient,
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which,
in the Association’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such
amount in the form specified by the Association. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) 
signed on behalf of the Recipient by Minister of Finance and Economy of the Recipient
or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and
(b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall
reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to
sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his
or her signature.
Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its
supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the
Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.
The
Association shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account
only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services 
under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; (b) 
services costing less than US$20,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and 
(c) all contracts for training, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant. The Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant
Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another,
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, 
Page  4
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(
A
)
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph
(a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and
(B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the 
Association such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association
’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) 
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right 
of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or
(b)
the right of the
Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time 
after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have
been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 above; or (b) if the 
Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Association, within
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Procurement
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for local government training, school  accountant training and
community sector training under paragraph
1.1
(a) of the Annex estimated to cost less 
than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1
and
3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  5
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for school principal and school council training under paragraph
1.1 
(a) of the Annex estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for procurement advisers and management information and cost accounting
Advisers under paragraph
1.1
(b)
of the Annex for tasks that meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph
5.1
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 
through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants
’
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply; and
(b)
with respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants  estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or
Page  6
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested.
On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the
eligible items, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in paragraph
5.1
(b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  7
