Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3348 AM 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Social Investment Fund II Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 19, 2000 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3348 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
The Borrower intends to obtain grant financing from the Government of 
Norway in an amount equivalent to $580,000; from the Government of the Federal 
Republic of Germany in amount equivalent to $600,000; and from the Department for 
International Development of the United Kingdom in an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
(Government of Norway, Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the 
Department for International Development are collectively referred to as Co-financiers), 
to assist in financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and each respective Co-financier; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 
2, 1997), with modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
 
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Association shall have the right to allocate and apply the amount so received in 
any manner and for such purposes under the Development Credit Agreement as 
the Association shall in its sole discretion determine.”; and 
 
(b) 
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, 
the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at 
the end of the said Section to read: 
 
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“ASIF II” means Armenian Social Investment Fund II established 
pursuant to the Decree No. 162, and amended on April 11, 2000; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Framework Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
ASIF II and an Implementing Agency, for purposes of carrying out a Microproject or a 
Sponsored Microproject on terms and conditions as specified in the Operational Manual, 
as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(e) 
“Implementing Agencies” means a community-based organization, 
including representatives of local government, responsible for carrying out 
Microprojects; 
 
(f) 
“Microproject” means a subproject eligible, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operations Manual for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, and 
in respect of which SIF has entered into a Framework Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Microprojects” means one or more Microprojects or Sponsored 
Microprojects, collectively; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
containing eligible criteria and appraisal, approval and supervision rules and procedures 
for Microprojects, as well as other administrative rules to be followed by ASIF II, as the 
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association and 
ASIF II; 
 
(i) 
“Project Account A” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Project Account B” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(l) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
December 21, 1999, between the Borrower and the Association;  
 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
 
(n) 
“Sponsored Microproject” means a Microproject to be financed, on a 
pari passu basis, out of the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of private sector 
contributions. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 14,900,000).  
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2010, and ending December 1, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2019, shall be one 
Page  6
-
5
-
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Bank and after due consideration by them of the development 
of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through ASIF II, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) open and maintain the Project Account A in local currency in a 
bank acceptable to the Association with an initial deposit equivalent to $80,000; (ii) 
replenish said Project Account not later than June 15 and December 15 of each calendar 
year so that the amount deposited in said Project Account shall not be less than the 
equivalent of $80,000 at the beginning of each semi-annual period; and (iii) use said 
Project Account for financing the Borrower’s contribution to the Project expenditures. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall open and maintain the Project Account B in a 
commercial bank into which contributions from the private sector are to be deposited and 
from which expenditures under each Sponsored Microprojects are to be financed on a 
pari passu basis with the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and the 
Program; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ASIF II to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Association consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial conditions and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause ASIF II to: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records. 
 (d) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 
2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:  
(i)  
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
Page  10
-
9
-
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has approved the Operational Manual satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(b) 
the Borrower has opened the Project Account A with an initial deposit 
equivalent to $80,000. 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  11
-
10
-
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
 
1
Government House 
 
Republic Square 
 
Yerevan 375010 
 
Republic of Armenia 
 
Telex: 
 
243331 LADA SU 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By /s/ Arman Kirakossian 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Peter Nicholas 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit   
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of  
Expenditures 
To be Financed
(1) Works 
 
(a) Microprojects (other 
 than 
Sponsored 
 
Microprojects) under  
 
Parts A.1 and A.2 of  
 The 
Project 
 
(b) Sponsored  
 Microprojects 
under 
 
Parts A.1 and A.2 
 
of the Project 
 
6,724,000 
 
2,015,000 
 
90% 
 
45% 
(2) Goods 
 
(a) Microprojects 
 
under Part A.3 of the  
 Project 
 
(b) Others 
 
1,117,000 
 
220,000  
100% of foreign expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) 
and 80% of local expenditures for 
other items procured locally 
 
3) Consultants’ services 
and training and study tours 
 
1,414,000 100% 
4) Incremental Operating 
Costs of the ASIF II 
 
1,550,000 100% 
Page  14
-
13
-
5)  Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
370,000 
Amounts due pursuant to Section 
2.02(c) of this Agreement 
6)  Unallocated 
            1,490,000
TOTAL 14,900,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs of the ASIF II” means the 
incremental expenses incurred by the ASIF II on account of Project implementation, 
including: staff salaries, office equipment, communications, local travel, utilities, printing 
and publication, translation/interpretation expenses, office supplies, fuel, vehicle 
insurance and inspection, office and vehicle maintenance and repair. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (iii) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent per contract;  (v) 
training; and (vi) operating costs of the ASIF II, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account,  in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 
1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports. 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
Page  16
-
15
-
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex A  
to  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made  
On the Basis of Project Management Reports  
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of  SDR 1,490,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
Page  18
-
17
-
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex B  
to  
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Accoun
t
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the  Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the basic social and economic 
infrastructure, short-term employment opportunities, community outreach, and capacity 
building at the local level; and (ii) support the Government’s decentralized initiatives 
through an integrated institutional approach to empower local governments and 
communities. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Social and Economic Infrastructure
1. 
Carrying out Microprojects for the rehabilitation or upgrading of schools, 
health clinics, water supply systems, sanitation works, irrigation and other infrastructure 
in accordance with the provisions of the operational manual. 
2. 
Carrying out Microprojects for the rehabilitation of school heating 
systems. 
3. 
Provision of school furniture. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to Implementing Agencies in the areas 
of the preparation, design, implementation and maintenance of Microprojects, and to 
local contractors in competitive bidding procedures and technical standards. 
5. 
Carrying out design and supervision of Microprojects. 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening of Local Governments and 
Community-based Associations
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to local government in such 
areas as of financial management, budgeting, and asset management. 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to community-based 
organizations (including, but not limited to, Water Users Associations, School Councils, 
Condominium Associations) in areas relevant to their involvement in sector-specific 
Microprojects.  
 
Part C
:
Institutional Support to the ASIF II
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, including project audits and training to 
the ASIF II staff and management. 
 
2. 
Provision of vehicles and equipment to various departments of the ASIF 
II. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of studies, assessment, and reviews relating to the 
community development. 
 
4. 
Administrative support for ASIF II. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section.  
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and 
domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,655,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.   
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000
 
equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $2,940,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors  in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
3. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed
 
$130,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed
 
$900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (iii) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (b), under the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Parts C.3 and C.4 of this Section; and (ii) the first two 
contracts for works to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii)  
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  25
-
24
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for carrying out activities under Part A.5 of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for carrying out Project audit and technical and procurement audit under 
Part C.1 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for activities under Part A.4, Part C.1 and Part C.3 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  26
-
25
-
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
Services for carrying out studies under Part B.2 may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8  through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply; and 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
Page  27
-
26
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project:  
 
(a) 
maintain ASIF II with the structure, staff and other resources satisfactory 
to the Association; 
 (b) 
ensure that ASIF II’s operations shall be carried out in accordance with 
the procedures set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that any significant modifications to the ASIF II’s statute or by-
laws and any changes in the appointment of or to the terms of employment of the 
Executive Director and the Department Heads of ASIF II shall be agreed upon with the 
Association. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure, through ASIF II,  that Microprojects shall be identified, 
appraised, approved, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Operational Manual; and  
 
(b) 
carry out, on an annual basis, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) an independent technical and procurement review of implementation of 
Microprojects, focusing on the adherence to guidelines and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual, quality of works, training and technical assistance programs and 
community related procurement; and (ii) an assessment of the Project impact on 
beneficiaries. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause ASIF II to: 
 
(a) 
submit annual work programs and budget to the Association for its 
review and approval; and 
 
(b) 
submit to the Association quarterly progress reports and annual progress 
reports, on Project implementation; satisfactory to the Association, including assessments 
of Microproject’s cost effectiveness and Regional targeting. 
Page  29
-
28
-
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 15, 2003, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 15, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the matter. 
 
Page  30
-
29
-
Bmorata 
\\LEGNT01\LEGEC\BACKUP\ARMENIA\W-1586 dca.doc 
05/15/00 4:53 PM
 
