Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9 311
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1170-GH)
JANUARY 25, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distributicn and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units    -    Cedis (¢)
Average Annual Exchange Rates
1981           ¢1.00 = US$0.36
198?,          ¢1.00 - US$0.3636
1983           ¢1.00 = USS0.2899
1984           ¢1.00 = US$C.0283
1985           ¢1.00 = US$0.0185
1986           ¢1.00 - US$O.0112
1987     ¢      1.00  US$0.0068
1988           ¢1.00 - US$0.0050
1989           ¢1.00 = US$0.0037
ABBREVIATIONS A:'D ACRONYMS
AfDB    -    African Development Bank
ERP     -    Economic Recovery Program
ERR     -    Economic Raze of Return
GRC     -    Ghana Railway Corporation
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
MIS     -    Management Information System
MRH      -    Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTC     -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
P&T     -    Postal and Telecommunications
ODA     -    Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom)
S&T     -    Signals and Telecommunications
SDR     -    Special Drawing Rights
SGS     -    Societe General de Surveillance
TPU     -    Transport Planning Unit
TRP     -    Transport Rehabilitation Project (1987)
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
UA      -    Units of Account
WFP     -    World Food Program



FOR OMCL UKE ONLY
THE %ORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S A
OMfice of Dvtecutw-Getal
Opwuatmm vuIWtio
January 25, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Ghana Railway Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1170-GH)
Attached, for information is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Ghana - Railway Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1170-GH)
prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by
the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF OFANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT - CREDIT 1170-CH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   ...................................................
Evaluation  Summary   .            .......................................              ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project  Identity   ............               .........................    1
2.   Background            ...........................................    1
3.   Project Objectives  and Description   .....                     ..............    2
4.   Project Design and Organization .......................    2
5.   Project  Implementation             ....................         I  .........    3
6.   Project Results  ..............               .........................    4
7.   Financial Performance   .........                  .......................    7
8.   Impact of Project   ...........                .........................   10
9.   Project  Sustainability   ........                 .......................   10
10.   Association Performance   ........                   ......................   11
11.   Consultants Performance ..............................  11
12.   GRC and Borrower Performance   .......                     ..................   12
13.   Project Relationship   ..........                  .......................   12
14.   Project Documentation and Data   ......                     .................   12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation
and its Development Impact on the Project including
Tables  1-5   ..........................................    14
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Project  Timetable   ............               ........................   38
2. Disbursements .              ....................................... 38
3.   Project Costs  at Appraisal  and Completion   ....                    ........   39
4.   Project Financing   ............                ........................   39
5.   Economic  Impact   ..............              ........................   40
6.   Studies   ..............................................    41
7.   Staff  input   . .........................................   42
8. Missions .............................................. 43
9.   Conformance with Annual Operating Targets .............  44
10.   Projected and Actual Balance  Sheets  for GRC  ....                     .......  45
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PkOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1170-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Railway
Rehabilitation Project in Ghana, for which Credit 1170-GH in the amount of
US$ 29.0 million was approved on June 25, 1981. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1988, three years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and
the last disbursement was in March 1989.
The African Development Bank (AfDB) cofinanced the Project with
a loan of US$13.0 million. Later, additional funds for the Project were
obtained from a Swiss Grant (US$1.3 million) and a French supplier (US$0.4
million). In 1987, IDA provided additional assistance to the Ghana Railway
Corporation (GRC) under the Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP-Credit
1858-GH). A follow-on project (TRP-II) will be presented to the Board in
December 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the
Western Africa Department. Preparation of this PCR is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report, supervision reports, Bank correspondence files, a Project
Completion Report by AfDB, and interviews with staff involved in project
supervision. GRC has submitted a comprehensive assessment of the Project
which has been incorporated in Part II of the PCR.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project will not be audited at this time.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1170-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.        Ghana experienced a major economic crisis during the 1970's and
early 1980s. During this period the economy virtually ccllapsed and the
transport infrastructure, including the railways, greatly deteriorated.
The Project was one of the first efforts made by IDA to restore thi
country's export capacity by rehabilitating the Ghana Railway Corporation
(GRC). The Project provided GRC with the necessary inputs to make
considerable prcgress in restoring its property and strengthening its
management (paras 2.01 and 2.03).
Obiectives
2.        The Project had two main objectives: (i) to improve managerial
efficiency by ins .ituting modern methods of operations, maintenance and
financial management; (ii) to provide the revitalized management with
improved equipment to enable GRC to function as a viable transport
enterprise, in particular to move export traffic to Ghanaian ports (para
3.01).
Results
3.        Project start-up was delayed almost two years because of
political upheaval, including a coup and a change of Government (para
5.01).
4.        Ten out of the 18 main compunents of the project were completed
by December 31, 1986. The remaining were substantially completed by the
end of 1989 (para 6.01).
5.        The Project made a significant contribution towards institution
building, and to the rebuilding of GRC into a viable operating system with
good potential for the future to support the country's economy. The number
of staff was substantially reduced and staff productivity improved. The
morale of middle and senior management was built-up, management information
systems were developed and a satisfactory traffic costing system was
established. A training school was established and technical assistance
provided to GRC's management. Several studies of GRC'r operations were
also carried out (paras 6.02 - 6.07).



- iii -
6.        Because project start-up was substantially delayed, traffic and
revenues only began to improve after 1985, by which time the Project had
taken effect, and operational improvements led to more traffic being
carried and revenues earned (para 7.01).
7.        The reevaluated ERR ts estimated by GRC is ?92, as compared to
the appraisal estimate of 32Z. Lower than projected traffic is the main
reason for the lower rate (para 7.13).
Sustainability
8.        After the Project began to ttke effect in 1985, freight traffic
rose steadily. From a precipitous drop from 95 million tons-kms in 1981 to
45.7 million ton-kms in 1984, traffic rose to 126 million tons-km in 1988,
an average increase of 29Z per annum. The average haul length increased
from 122 kms to 169 kms during the period. Passenger traffic increased
from a low of 2.1 million in 1985 to 3.6 million in 1988. As a result, the
railway system was turned around from what was an almost hopeless situation
and set on a steady course towards improvement (paras. 9.01 - 9.02).
9.        Although the results were not according to original
expectations, reasonably strong managerial and infrastructural foundations
were laid which will enable the GRC to move towards self reliance,
financial viability and an active role in expanding the country's export
earnings. The on-going TRP provided additional support to the Government
and GRC to achieve these objectives (para 9.02).
Performance of IDA, the Consultants, GRC and the Government
10.       The Project was well conceived by IDA, but unforeseen political
upheaval and further deterioration of the economy at the start of the
Project, delayed benefits. IDA's supervision efforts were effective in
helping GRC to meet changing conditions, but due to staffing constraints as
a result of the Bank's reorganization, supervision was inadequate after
1986 (para 10.02).
11.       Technical assistance consultants played a vital role during the
implementation of the Project and made an essential contribution to its
success (para 11.01).
12.       GRC management was most receptive to the efforts to improve its
performance, and management competence has been restored. GRC made all
reasonable efforts to complete the Project on time, and the Government's
understanding of the problems of GRC was helpful, but it was not always
able to provide adequate financial assistance when needed, nor did it
promptly approve tariff increases as called for in the credit documents.
However, on an overall basis, the Government substantially complied with
the covenants to the best of itr ability (para 12.01).
Overall Assessment
13.       In the region's view, the Project was successful.



- iv -
Findings and Lessons
14.       The most useful lesson from this Project is that under the right
conditions, it is possible to turn around a large government-owned entity
from an almost hopeless position and put it on the road to managerial,
financial and operational viability. These conditions include: (i)
receptivity on the part of government to policy reforms including autonomy
of the executing agency, and to take most of the necessary corrective
measures proposed; (ii) willingness and determination of the management and
staff of the entity to overcome the problems confronting them; (iii) the
engagement of a competent and well coordinated consulting team in which
some members were put into line positions until local management could be
trained to take over; and (iv) close and flexible supervision on the part
of the lenders, and a willingness to adjust the project scope to meet
unforeseen conditions which arose during implementation. The Project
demonstrated how much can be accomplished in a cooperative environment in
less than a decade.
15.       It was unfortunate that funding could not be fo-and for the two
critically needed locomotives (para 5.02), as this would lave enabled GRC
to handle more traffic and at the same time improve its earnings and its
overall performance. Given the large investments made by IDA and AfDB in
all the other needs of GRC, the lack of adequate motive power delayed GRC's
recovery and curtailed the return on their investments in infrastructure,
equipment and institution building. If the co-financiers had been
successful in finding other sources of funding, GRC's recovery may have
been expedited (para 10.01).
16.       As regards training of GRC's staff, selection and placement of
counterpart staff by GRC and its consultants could have been better (Part
2, para 8.02).
16.       The Association should ensure that projects as complex as the
Project are adequately supervised right up to completion, and that standard
supervision reports are prepared (para 10.02).
17.       During the appraisal of the next project (TRP - 2), the mission
should (i) examine the tariff structure for freight to ensure that this
traffic will pay for its full share of costs at the earliest; (ii)
ascertain that sufficient motive power is available to handle traffic
demand, particularly freight traffic; (iii) insist on a speed-up of the
auditing process; (iv) request GRC to adjust its accounts to reflect its
debts obligation to the Government; (v) check that GRC is being promptly
reimbursed by the Government for any subsidies due it; (vi) include in the
project provision for necessary training to promising railway counterparts
in the technical and financial departments; and (vii) ensure that the
Government is making available sufficient foreign exchange to enable GRC to
purchase needed spare parts and equipment. It is also recommended that the
mission determine whether the technical assistance (management) consultants
should return to Ghana for a short period to check that the systems they
installed are working satisfactorily. (The above recommendations were taken



into account during the appraisal of the Second Transport Rehabilitation
Project which will be presented to the Board In December 1990.)



I
9                                 .~~~~~~~4
0.



REPUBLIC OP GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1170-GR'
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
Name            :    Railway Rehabilitation Project
Credit Numbar  s    1170-GH
RVP Unit             Africa Region
Sector          s    Transport
2.   BackRround
2.01      A review of the implementation of the Railway Rehabilitation
Project should consider the economic crisis in Gha-aa during the 1970s and
early 1980s. The crisis brought most economic activity to a halt including
major export indust-ies and most Government services. Little or no
maintenance was carried out on the transport infrastructure, including both
road and rail, and the vital Postal and Telecommunications (P&T) system
fell into disrepair.
2.02      Transport infrastructure, essential for the movement of key
exports and farm production to market, faced virtual collapse during this
period due to prolonged neglect of maintenarce and rehabilitation. By 1980
freight and passenger traffic on the railway had fallen dramatically.
Derailments caused by track and equipment threatened to shut down the
railway. The deterioration of GRC management, operations and equipment was
reflected in high working ratios, low staff productivity, high expenditures
and low revenues.
2.03       ollowing the start-up of the Railway Rehabilitation Project,
Ghana launched a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in April
1983. This program emphasized restoration of export capacity as part of
its basic strategy. Under the ERP, with considerable support from IDA and
other donors, Ghana undertook emergency repairs and rehabilitation of parts
of its transport network, and initiated generally sound and pragmatic
institutional reforms. While these measures averted the complete breakdown
of the transport system, more remained to be done to restore its capacity
to meet current and future needs, to strengthen management and to rebuild
institutions. In 1987, Government and IDA approved a Transport
Rehabilitation Project (TRP Credit 1858-GH) to continue rehabilitation,
particularly in roads and road transport, railways and sector management
begun under earlier projects. A f3llow-on project (TRP-II) is scheduled
for Board presentation in early December 1990.
2.04      Ghana's transport system includes: (a) a network of about 14,000
km of trunk and urban arterial roads and about an equal length of feeder
roads; (b) an over-aged road vehicle fleet of about 74,000 vehicles; (c) a



-2-
950-km railway system.; and (d) two major deep-water ports and three small
fishing ports. The railway network is in the form of a letter A, with the
apex at Kumasi and the two feet at the port of Takoradi and Accra/Tema.
The system lies entirely in the most heavily populated southern half of the
country and distances are short, about 320 km maximum, constraining the
railway's ability to compete with road transport. The terrain through
which the railway passes is generally hilly, particularly between Kumasi
ar.i Takoradi (the Western Line) and thus high average speeds are not
possible.
2.05      Administration of the transport sector is handled by two
ministries: the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH), which oversees road
investments and maintenance; and the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC), which deals with all other transport sub-sectors, and
overall transport policy and planning.
3.   Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01      Proiect Obiectives:  The Project had two main objectives.  The
first was to improve managerial efficiency by instituting modern methods of
operations, maintenance and financial management. The second was to
provide revitalized management with improved equipment to enable GRC to
function as a viable transport enterprise, in particular for export
traffic. The first objective was to be addressed through substantial
technical assistance concentrated in the operations and financial fields,
studies for better traffic management, cost accounting, telecommunications
and modern training facilities. The second objective was to be attained
through improvement to the track and telecommunication equipment on the
Western Line, major overhaul of defective locomotives and rolling stock and
improvements to the maintet;w.ice facilities in the workshops.  It was
expected that these measures would enable GRC to optimize the use of its
existing resources, recapture some of the freight traffic lost to the road
system, provide passenger services only where economically justified, and
function as a well managed and soundly equipped railway primarily engaged
in export-oriented freight movements.
3.02      Proiect Des-riptions  The Project covered GRC's FY 1981-85
inveetment plan. It included the following components: (a) technical
assistance and studies; (b) track maintenance; (c) locomotives and rolling
stock rehabilitation and maintenance; (d) workshop and depot modernization;
(e) telecommunications and block instruments; (fl training echool and
equipment. In addition, it also included technical assistance to the
Transport Planning Unit (TPU) and HTC. A more detailed description of the
Project is contained in Part II.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.01      In April 1976, a Bank mission visited Ghana and, as a result of
its findings, the Government requested Bank assistance to finance
investments essential to re-vitalize GRC. Accordingly, a short-term
rehabilitation program incorporating the priotity items of GRC's investment
plan formed the basis of the Project. The Project was pre-appraised in



early 1978, and appraised in July 1978 after a review of a UNDP financed
management and staffing study completed in 1978.
4.02      In formulating the Project, adequate provision was made for (a)
advance project preparation, particularly procurement planning, (b) wider
spread of project elements to cover all areas of weakness to a reasonable
extent, (c) a cautious approach in framing traffic and financial forecasts,
(d) adequate project monitoring and (e) reasonably extensive periods for
technical assistance, along with the appointment of consultants to line
management positions in key departments.
4.03      The project cost was estimated at US$64.0 million, consisting of
a foreign cost of US$42.0 million and a local cost of US$22.0 million. The
foreign cost was covered by an IDA credit of US$ 29.0 million and parallel
financing by the African Development Bank (AfDB) of US$13.0 million. The
Government agreed to re-lend US$27.7 million equivalent from the IDA credit
to GRC on standard World Bank terms, after deducting the costs of the
studies on which the project was based. The AfDB loan of US$ 13.0 million
would also be relent to G&C on standard terms of 62 p.a.
4.04      GRC was supported by a substantial annual Government subsidy of
Cedis 120 million. Project design addressed this problem by calling for
(a) adequate tariff revisions and (b) staff reductions from 11,500
employees to 7,000. Tariffs were revised upward by Government (3502 in
1982 and 1102 in 1Y84) and staff strength was reduced to 7,900. However,
operating subsidies continued to be high because tariffs did not adequately
compensate for successive devaluations of the cedi, a 100? jump in the
minimum wages in December 1984 and a steeper increase later due to
devaluation and fluctuations in exchange rates from 1$ - 2.75C to 1$ -
300C, coupled with internal inflation. For these reasons, the Project's
plan to phase out subsidies by 1986 did not materialize. In 1986, the
Government subsidy was Cedis 717 million, but it declined thereafter, to
Cedis 215 million in 1988 and _edis 205 million in 1989.
5.   Proiect Implementation
5.01      The credit agreement was signed on July 20, 1981, but did not
become effective until March 31, 1983 because of political upheaval,
including a coup and change of government. Due to continued neglect in
maintenance, locomotive and wagon availability drastically dropped. Track
had deteriorated on the Western line below safety levels, resulting in
repeated train accidents which inflicted further damage to track and
rolling stock.
5.02      In 1982, the dollar value of the IDA credit and AfDB loan fell
from US$42 million to US$33 million as a result of unfavorable exchange
rates. GRC estimated the need for supplementary financing at over US$15
million.  With the help of the Government, bilateral assistance and
supplier's credits were found to the extent of about US$12.7 million,
leaving a gap of about US$2.5 million. This prevented the proposed
acquisition of 2 critically needed diesel electric locomotives for growing
freight traffic.



5.03      The project forecast of higher traffic and revenues by
increasing the capacity of GRC was affected by several reasons: (i) the
start-up of the Project was delayed by nearly two years as noted in para
5.01; (ii) due to a complex mix of critical factors such as slow
procurement processing by local staff unfamiliar with ICB procedures, a
total lack of credibility in the supplier's community over GRC's prospects
resulted in the dilatory processing of letters of credit as opposed to
direct payment by IDA; (iii) inordinate delays in the issuance of import
licenses by the Government; and (iv) failure of local suppliers to supply
timber sleepers which resulted in track deterioration and frequent train
derailments. As a result, actual traffic declined to about half of the
pre-appraisal levels by the time the Project effectively started in 1984.
Therefore, the 1989 performance level should be viewed in contrast to the
low pre-project traffic level.
5.04      The Bank responded to the deteriorating situation by
reallocating project funds for the emergency procurement of sleepers, wagon
and locomotive spare parts, rehabilitation of workshops and the purchase of
a modern computer to improve its Management Information Systems (MIS).
These inputs helped GRC reverse the falling trends in traffic as can be
seen below.
TRAFFIC                       1979            1984            1989
Freight (tons)            785,000         375,000          760,000
Passengers (millions)          5.3             2.2             3.3
In its reassessment of the project, necessitated by the long delay in
project start-up (para 5.01), IDA modified some of the original performance
targets agreed on at negotiations (see also para 7.01 in Part II of this
report).
5.05       Procurement:  This subject is fully covered in Part II of the
report.
5.06        Institutional Strengthenina:  The project made a significant
contribution towards institution building, and to the revival of GRC as a
freight hauler, with good future potential. Project implementation
experience built up the morale and the confidence of middle and senior
management, which is now a better position to shoulder full
responsibilities in implementing the follow-on TRP which was appraised in
November 1987. MIS were sufficiently developed to give support to
operations and planning. A sound railway costing system has been
established. However, continued assistance was still needed in operations
and an operations specialist was provided to GRC by the TRP.
6.    Proiect Results
6.01       Ten out of eighteen main co:nponents of the Project were
completed by the first revised closing date of December 31, 1986. These
were track renewal on the Western line, purchase and utilization of survey



equipment, purchase of track tools, rehabilitation of 36 locomotives and
procurement of shunting locomotives, traffic studies, studies on accounting
and costing methods, studies on utilization of P&T microwave facilities,
formulation of a Five Year Transport Plan, developme-t of manpower
resources and rehabilitation and repair of coazhes. The Project was closed
on December 31, 1988, disbursements of the IDA credit continued until March
1989 and, by that time, remaining project activities were substantially
completed.
6.02        Improvements in track and wagon maintenance in the entire
system is reflected in a decline in derailments, particularly on the
upgraded Wester,% Line; traffic on the Central and Eastern Lines was
negligible:
---------------DERAILMENTS---------------
LINE                         1986    1987      1988     1969 (six months)
Western Line                  119      117       93       34
Central Line                   17       18       17        6
Eastern Line                   12       15       15        4
Total                         148      150      125       44
6.03        For rolling stock, actual performance data is not available for
the years 1980-1982. In 1983, actual wagon and coach availability was well
below the operational targets, 292 actual vs 70? target and 442 actual vs
802 target, respectively. By 1988, actual performance had improved
significantly. Against targets of 8O0 wagon availability and 85? coach
availability, actual performance was 61? and 842, respectively. Similarly,
locomotive availability which was critically low at 31? in 1983, rose
dramatically to 62Z in 1988. The good performance on coach availability is
due to the fact that they are relatively new.
6.04       In terms of traffic, the 1981 targets of 123 million ton-km and
430 million passenger-km compared to actual performance statistics of only
95 million ton-km (712 of target) and 302 million passenger-km (70?),
respectively. Operational performance worsened and by 1984, with targets
of 21. million ton-km and 530 million passenger km, the railway's actual
traffic was only 46 million ton-km (21?) and 189 million passenger-km
(36Z), well below the targets. Following the start up of the Project in
1985, traffic began to rise and by 1988 actual ton-km had increased to 126
million (582) and passenger-km to 353 million (672).
6.05       Due to extreme overstaffing of GRC at the time of appraisal,
staff strength and productivity targets were negotiated with GRC and agreed
to as a part of the Credit Agreement. A gradual reduction in staff was an
important goal of GRC during the project period. In 1981, the total staff



-6-
target was set at 11,100 and a target was agreed at 51,000 traffic units
per employee. Actual staff strength was only 8,848 in 1981, much better
than the target, but due to lower than anticipated traffic, the staff
productivity figure was slightly below target at 46 traffic units per
thousand employees. By 1984, total staff had decreased to 8,277 against a
target for that year of 9,900. But very low traftic volumes allowed the
railway only to register a staff productivity figure of 28,000 traffic
units vs. an appraisal target of 75,000. The situation then improved and
by 1988 staff had further decreased to 7,395 and staff productivity had
improved to 65,000 traffic units per employee. However, this figure is
still below the appraisal target.
6.06        Starting in September 1984, the World Food Program (WFP)
provided a food for work program for 8,200 GRC work staff, which boosted
their morale considerably. Previously, the shortage of food as a result of
the 1982-83 drought, contributed to the further deterioration of staff
productivity. WFP's project cost totaled US$4.6 million during the first
phase of up to March 1987. After a bridging program of about 16 months,
the second phase of the program started in August 1988 with a total cost of
roughly US$6 million covering 8,600 GRC staff.
6.07        The construction of the training school was delayed due to the
failure of the contractor and subsequent litigation. The school will be
substantially operational in mid 1990. The consultants redesigned all the
technical courses, prepared new lecture notes and initiated programs for
training the trainers. The school trained 869 trainees in 1984, 960 in
1985 and 966 in 1986. During the same period, 197 management level
candidates and selected senior supervisors were given professional training
'.n specialized institutions abroad. Technical assistance for continuing
this program was included in the TRP.
6.08        Four important studies were completed during project
implementation:
(i)  Traffic studies of the Central, Eastern and Western Lines were
necessary in order to assess line potential and to determine
the extent of future investments in these lines for
rehabilitation and capacity improvements. The studies
confirmed the need for rehabilitating the Eastern and Central
Lines and this was included in the TRP-1 with Italian
cofinancing. The study, which is now several years old, needs
to be updated.
(ii)   A study of accounting and costing methods led to the
establishment of a cost accounting system. This enabled the
railway to develop a pricing policy based on a cost oriented
tariff structure, introduce cost saving devices for promoting
operations, provide reliable and timely information for profit
analysis of section-wide and network-wide traffic movements,
and assist in project appraisals of different investment
proposals. GRC now maintains separate accounts for operations
on the Western, Central and Eastern Lines. Budgeting has been
made more precise with a computerized accounting and costing



- 7 -
facility. A manual has been published to help the statistical
department in assessing the cost-effectiveness of different
operations.
(iii)  A manpower development study outlined options for reducing
employee strength to 7,000 by the end of the project and for
establishing an effective man-power development program with
built-in incentives to stop the exodus of skilled staff from
GRC to the private sector. The study also made valuable
recommendations on how to control excessive overtime paid to
staff. Although the staff was reduced to 7,395 which was lower
that the targeted level for 1988, wage costs still constituted
70? of the total operating costs. GRC's efforts to persuade
staff to retire were not very successful as funds were not
available to pay severance costs.
(iv)  A microwave adaption study was organized to examine the
feasibility of the most economic linkage of GRC's land line
communication system (through overhead cables) with the
microwave system under commission by the P & T, parallel to the
Western Line. The study confirmed the feasibility but the
linkage scheme did not materialize because of serious problems
which showed up in the microwave system.
7.    Financial Performance 11
7.01       One objective of the Project was to arrest the decline of GRC's
financial performance, which had occurred during the 1970s due to the
conditions described in para 2.02. This continued into the early 1980s,
reaching the lowest level in 1984. Because project start-up was
substantially delayed as noted in para 5.01, traffic and revenues only
began to improve after 1985, by which time the Project had begun to take
effect, with its consequent operational improvements leading to traffic and
revenue increases.
7.02       With the Project beginning to take effect in 1985 and traffic
slowly increasing each year thereafter, total freight traffic volume once
again reached the levels carried in 1980, the time of appraisal. Passenger
traffic, while recovering from the low level of 1984 and 1985, also
increased (particularly in 1987, due to the acquisition of new passenger
coaches) but has yet to reach the 1980 level.
7.03       Due to delays in accounting, which should now improve as a
result of computerization of records, audited accounting sta are available
only up to December 1986 2/. Unaudited data has been used in the present
1/    Sources:  AfDB Project Completion Report dated December 1989,
GRr and IDA.
2/    Subsequently, in the Fall of 1990 audited accounts became available
up to the end of 1988.



analysis. The audit of GRC's 1987 accounts has started. For 1988 and
1989, only revised budget data is available for the income statements.
Cash flow and balance sheet data are not available after 1987. Thus, no
audited financial data exists for the last three years of the project
implementation period.
7.04        Comparison of actual financial results with those forecast at
appraisal is difficult due to the general effect of inflation, to staff
costs rising faster than inflation, and to significant annual variations in
fuel and materials expenditures. Staff costs have increased considerably,
both in total and per employee. While in the 1981-°3 period the revised
actual costs exceed the revised forecasts, the average variation over the
original project period was not excessive. There was a significant
increase in 1986, but little change since then.
7.05        Fuel costs also have varied widely when expressed as a cost per
train-km. Costs when converted to 1989 prices show a significant increase
from 1981-82, then a levelling off during 1983-84 to about C 110-120 per
train-km; however, as with staff costs, they jumped in 1985, and again in
1986, and then stabilized at nearly C 240 per train-km.
7.06        GRC, with the help of consultants, has developed an automated
costing system capable of calculating fixed and variable costs for each
type of traffic carried. This cost data is used in negotiating tariff
rates with shippers, which are then subject to the approval of the
Government. Tariffs for most commodities (other than manganese and
bauxite) now cover variable costs, and a portion of fixed costs. The rates
for manganese and bauxite, which comprise over 71% of GRC's total freight
traffic in ton-km, are set too low and do not allow recovery of even
variable costs. These commodities are relatively low-value, thus transport
charges absorb a high proportion of their sales price. Since these
commodities earn a significant amount of foreign exchange, the Government
has a policy of requiring GRC to charge concessional rates for their
transport. This factor should be considered when viewing the present
financial condition of the railway. If rates were set to recover costs,
the Government's annual subsidy requirement to GRC would be significantly
less. Another alternative would be for the Government to subsidize the
producers rather than GRC.
7.07        Current (1989) tariff revenues per ton-km range from the
equivalent of C 8.29 for bauxite to C 13.96 for manganese. The rates for
bauxite are now lower, in real terms, than those charged in 1983. In terms
of passenger fares, there has been a real decrease in the rates charged
since 1983. First class passenger fares are set at C 3.61 per passenger-
km and second class at C 2.49. Thus, the relatively high volume of
passenger traffic hauled by GRC, accounting for 752 of all train-km in
1988, does not contribute to the improvement of GRC's financial position.
7.08        The revenue and expense statements of GRC show that while
operating costs rose substantially over the appraisal levels, so have
revenues aided by tariff adjustments from time to time. This has allowed
GRC to exceed the working ratio targets set at appraisal every year.



- 9 -
Although the actual ratio increased slightly in 1986, it improved sharply
in 1987 and 1988, and is expected to be only about 120 in 1990.
7.09        While improvements in working ratios are quite satisfactory,
the fact that the ratio is well above 100 means that GRC continues to
require a government subsidy. This subsidy rose from C 36 million in 19s1
(C 735.8 million in 1989 prices) to C 717 million (C 1,276.3 million in
1989 prices) in 1986, but it fell to C 205 million in 1989. In real terms,
the subsidy requirement has been generally less than forecast at the time
of appraisal. It can be concluded that the Project has met one of its
objectives by making the railway less of a burden on the country's
resources. Projections under the TRP (SAR Report 6912-GH) show that GRC
will not require any revenue subsidy beyond 1991.
7.10        A review of GRC's forecast and actual balance sheets (Table 10)
shows the value of fixed assets rising much slower than forecast until
1984, due to the much delayed start of the project, then increasing rapidly
in 1985 and 1986. The 1987 gross value of C 8,471 million reflects the
revaluation of assets carried out in that year, based on January 1, 1985
prices, and the purchase of 130 additional passenger coaches financed by
the Government.
7.11        The long-term debt as of December 31, 1987 was about ¢3,600
million. Since GRC has been unable to generate sufficient funds from its
operations to cover working expenses, the railway cannot service its debt
or finance further investment from its own resources. Although all foreign
debt is incurred by the Government and on-lent to GRC, the railway has
serviced little or none of such on-lending. Thus, the amounts shown as
outstanding in GRC's balance sheets represent the total amounts of such
loans, apart from two small loans which have been repaid. Moreover, no
loan interest has been paid by GRC, resulting in a build-up of a hidden and
unquantified subsidy paid by the Government. In this regard, GRC's
accounts should be adjusted so as to reflect its debt obligations, or the
Government's equity in GRC.
7.12        A review of the Accounts Receivable and of the Accounts Payable
reveal that they are under control, and in fact the payables are relatively
small.
7.13        The reevaluated economic rate of return (ERR) estimated by GRC
is 19Z (see Part II, Section 11), as compared to the appraisal estimate of
32Z on the best traffic forecast. Lower than projected traffic is the main
reason for the lower rate. GRC's estimate is based on a phased investment
program (included overlapping/continuing investments under the first
project, the TRP and follow-on investments) and their combined benefits.
'while CRC's estimate can be further refined as regards methodology, it is
acceptable. A much more conservative estimate of the ERR prepared by the
AfDB (a major cofinancier of the project) shows 15Z, but this rate excludes
substantial benefits from avoided road reconstruction costs or road detour
costs, and may be regarded as an underestimate.



- 10 -
8.    Impact of Proiect
8.01       GRC's financial performance did not show the improvement
expected at project appraisal, during the project period and this was
primarily due to:
(i)  Delays in the implementation of the rehabilitation of the
Western Line;
(ii) Too many staff for the current traffic levels;
(iii) Constraints on the railway's freedom to adjust rates and fares;
(iv) Limited success in equipment rehabilitation, attributable to
the delay in the start-up of the Project, which resulted in
starting from a more deteriorated condition of equipment, which
needed more imports in terms of spares as well as time to bring
up to standard.
(v)  Lack of financial resources which resulted in the total
deterioration of the Central and Eastern Lines.
8.02        Following a difficult start, project execution improved in 1986
and showed progress in all sectors of activity.  GRC's managerial
competence has been well established, partly through the assistance of the
consultants and partly due to the on-the-job experience provided by the
project to local staff. Government understands GRC's problems and the
need to develop the railway system, but economic constraints often
prevented adequate financial assistance at the appropriate time both in the
maintenance and developmental activities. Thus, GRC will continue to
require external funding and expertise over the next decade to reduce
operational costs and provide quality service to customers. The Project
has succeeded in creating a better work environment and an infrastructure
base on which to build a viable transportation entity.
9.    Proiect Sustainability
9.01        In view of the delayed start of the Project, with a disastrous
effect on the physical condition of the railway (para 5.01),
IDA carried out a mid-term appraisal in 1984 and revised performance
targets for 1988 to 1995 in line with charged circumstances. After the
Project began to take effect in 1985, freight traffic rose steadily. From
a precipitous drop from 95 million ton-kms in 1981 to 45.7 million ton-km
in 1984, traffic rose to 126 million t: i-km in 1988, an average increase of
292 per annum. Total traffic in tons also doubled during this period, it
grew from 374,000 tons in 1984 to 743,000 in 1988, an impressive 19? per
annum average increase. The average haul length increased from 122 kms to
169 kms over the period. In 1980, the railway's total rail passenger
traffic volume was 6 million. This volume declined steadily to a low of
2.1 million in 1985 then rose to a 1988 level of 3.6 million. During the
period, the average journey length increased from 74 km to 98 km,
reflecting improved utilization of the passenger service offered between
Kumasi and Takoradi.



- 11 -
9.02        By the end of the Project, the railway system was turned around
from what was almost a hopeless situation and set on a steady course
towards improvement. Although results were not according to original
expectations, managerial and intrastructural foundations were laid to
enable GRC to move towards self reliance, financial viability and an active
role in expanding the country's export earnings. The on-going TRP is
lending additional support to the Government and to GRC, treating the
earlier project as the first part of a phased rehabilitation and
development program. Performance indices agreed under the TRP reflect the
future potential of the railway.
10.   Association Performance
10.01      The Project was well conceived and provided infrastructure
strengthening to support the growth of export oriented freight traffic.
Unforeseen political upheaval, and the deterioration of the economy during
the first three years of project implementation, eroded railway
infrastructure far below the conditions prevailing at the -.ime of
appraisal. IDA supervision staff performed well, supported new areas of
investment through re-allocation of funds, made adjustments in component
designs to suit changing conditions, maintained close liaison with the
Government, and expedited the procurement of goods and services in a
country whose creditworthiness made suppliers reluctant to sell to GRC. It
was unfortunate that co-financiers could not be found to provide additional
sources of financing for two needed locomotives, as lack of motive power
delayed GRC's recovery.
10.02       IDA supervision was thorough to the end of 1986; subsequently,
staffing constraints as a result of the Bank's reorganization appear to
have curtailed supervision effectiveness. Nevertheless, the Project was
supervised at the time of the appraisal of the TRP in 1987. It was also
supervised during follow up visits in 1988 and 1989, but no supervision
reports have been filed since 1986.
11.  Consultants Performance
11.01      Technical assistance consultants played a vital role during the
implementation of the project. They benefited from the expeLience of
earlier consultants to GRC who had not established a good working
relationship with management and workers. The consultant worked in harmony
with GRC management and staff in shaping efficient management, improved
operations, speeding procurement of critical project items and training
staff in the acquisition of new skills. Studies were completed well in
time for benefits to accrue within the project life. The biggest
contribution of technical assistance staff was in the build up of
confidence among senior management through the transfer of technology in
all aspects of operations and managerial expertise. One of the experts
occupied the position of Managing Director during the project
implementation period, and others held key line management positions. At a
later stage, the consultants successfully handed over all senior management
posts to local officials who were well groomed for responsibility.



- 12 -
However, technical experts should be called back for a short period to
review that the systems they installed are working well.
12.   GRC and Borrower Performance
12.01       GRC management was receptive to the effor's to improve its
performance, and management competitiveness has been restored. GRC made
all reasonable effort to complete the Project on time. The Goverrment was
committed to the objective of the Project, but lacked the needed financial
resources to maintain on a timely basis the agreed subsidy to GRC. It also
failed to promptly approve tariff increases on bauxite and passengers
(paras 7.06-7.07) as called for in tue credit documents. However, on an
overall basis, the Government substantially complied with the credit
covenants.
12.02       The TPU which was set up in the MTC with Bank assistance under
the Project, has paved the way for more systematic preparation and
evaluation of transport investment programs. This unit has organized
several studies on needs and potential of different subsectors, and has
developed a Master Plan for the entire sector. The ongoing TRP project is
assisting in the further development of the TPU.
13.   Project Relationship
13.01       Relations among the Association, the Government and GRC during
project execution were very good, and continue to be so.
14.   Proiect Documentation and Data
14.01       The Credit and Project Agreements were adequate and appropriate
for achieving project objectives at the time of appraisal. They were
modified when events led to delays which necessitated some changes in
project scope and design. GRCs new MIS has enabled it to keep better track
of costs resulting in cost based tariffs, and improved monitoring of
operations.



- 13 -
P A R T    I I



- 14 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1170-GH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   General
Transport Scene
1.01       Transport infrastructure has an important role in the
development of the economy and in a country like Ghana where exports play a
significant part, the role of transport becomes vital. The country had a
reasonably well developed transport system at the time of independence in
1957, and the net work was better developed in the more populated south of
the country. Rainfall in the country is high and terrain difficult, making
building and maintaining roads and railways expensive.
1.02       The main modes of inland transport in the country are railways
and road transport with a small inland water transport system on the
Volta Lake. There are two major ports at Tema and Takoradi and three
fishing ports. Domestic air transport is limited and the traffic handled
not significant.
The Economic Crisis
1.03       In the 1970s and early 1980s the country experienced a major
economic crisis which affected the transport system when maIntenance of
assets went down. Railways, the oldest means of mechanized land transport,
which has a significant share in the freight and passenger transport, also
suffered due to lack of investments. Traffic not only stagnated but
actually declined sharply. From the high volumes of freight and passenger
traffic in the mid 1960s when GRC carried over 2 million tonnes of freight
and around 8 million passengers, a major decline took place by 1984 when
the traffic dwindled to a mere 350,000 tonnes and around 2 million
passengers. This adversity affected the financing of GRC, which had to be
provided with heavy subsidies to keep it going.
RailwaXs
1.04       GRC has a route network of 950 kms on 3 ft 6 in ga.ige mainly in
the south of the country connecting the three majcr cities of Accra, Kumasi
and Takoradi. Until 1972 it was managed as a government department but
presently is managed by a government owned corporation under a Managing
Director reporting to the MTC.



- 15 -
The Railway Rehabilitation Project
1.05        The weaknesses which crept into the GRC's infrastructure due to
lack of maintenance inputs and non-replacement of aged assets, and the
falling operational capabilities of the system were manifest early in the
seventies. Consultants were appointed to prepare an Investment Plan. In
addition to suggesting measures for improvement day co day operations, the
consultants made a strong case for substantial investments in GRC and
prepared detailed plans identifying priorities for each investment. The
consultants' report formed GRC's five year investment plan for the period
1976-81.
1.06       The Plan could not be systematically implemented due to paucity
of resources and became out of date with the passage of time. A World Bank
sub-sector review mission visited Ghana in April 1976 and as a result of
its findings, the Government of Ghana formally requested IDA's assistance
later that year. Accordingly, a short term rehabilitation programme
incorporating priority items was identified and became the base for the
Railw'ay Rehabilitation Project. The Project was pre-appraised early in
1978 and appraised in July 1978.
1.07       The physical components of the Project were determined after
detailed discussions between GRC and Bank Staff. Institution building
elements were built upon the recommendations of a UNDP financed Management
and Staffing study completed by a second consultant in May 1978.
Need for Investment
1.08        The need for capital investments in GRC was urgent and
considered imperative for a number of obvious reasons:
(a)  The Railways had a glorious past record of performance which
was adversely af_-ected due to paucity of funds for essential
imports.
(b)  No feasible alternative was available to rail transport,
particularly for manganese, bauxite, cocoa and timber traffic
to Takoradi, unless far greater investments were considered on
roads not only along the Western corridor but also to evacuate
around 20-30 thousand tons of cocoa per year from the area
served by the Central Line.
(c)  Adequate studies had already been made by the first consultants
and the need for capital investments established. Not only had
the consultants' recommendations been accepted by the GRC, but
they ihad been translated into a working plan for execution.
Paucity of foreign axchange resources in the country prevented
the implementation of this plan.



- 16 -
(d,   The aim of the project was not to create aclUitional transport
capacity by additional investments, but to improve the levels
of performance through repairs and replacements of old assets
which had deteriorated due to prolonged lack of normal
maintenance inputs. In a nutshell, it was a programme of
catching up with arrears of maintenance and replacement of
unrepairable assets. It was natural that with the passage of
time, replacement was not attempted with like assets, but with
improved assets, latest in the state-of-the-art.
Key issues and Components of the Proiect
1.09        In the above background, the pro,ject did not pose any serious
challenge in defining the key issues and ob,ectives. They were rightly
defined, but confined to the Western Line of the system as far as the
rehabilitation of track and Signal and Telecommunications (S&T) was
concerned. The Railway's thinking and overall plan was more ambitious, and
covered the entire system. It aimed at raising the capacity of the system
in three stages to 2.0 -million tonnes of freight and 8 million passengers.
The GRC's plan envisaged rehabilitation of track on the entire system,
replacement of S&T on all three lines with radio backed communications,
substantial investment on repairs and maintenance of rolling stock and in
the final stage replacement of 20 diesel locomotives and 200 wagons, at a
total cost of US$134.54 million, against the initial IDA project estimates
of US$37.46 million. In its basic conception, the Project corresponded to
phase I of the Railways, Plan. However, by the time of the Staff
Appraisal, a good part of GRC's plan for the Western Line was incorporated
in the Project, which was approved for US$64 million. The requirements
were adjusted where ever possible, in the light of more recent data, and
further discussions with GRC officials. The costs were also adjusted for
the latest prices, and provision was made for contingencies. The main
changes were:
Track Rehabilitation         Provision was allowed for tipper trucks and
vehicles needed to transport ballast.
Rolling Stock
Rehabilitation             No major change.  The number of locos to be
overhauled was adjusted to suit availability of
foreign exchange and fixed at 36 against 53
mentioned in the earlier report. In fact 16
English Electric Locomotives were assumed to be
financed through the U.K. Overseas Development
Agency (ODA) in the initial Project report.
Workshop and Depot
Modernization        m    Axle turning lathe was added.
Signal and
Telecommunication      -    No change, except adjustment of prices.



- 17 -
Training School        -    Apart from increasing the provision for various
items, expatriate instructors were included in
the estimates.
Technical Assistance        Provision was increased to include one project
coordinator, and senior mechanical engineers
and workshop pace setters.
Transport Planning
Unit                      This was segregated from the Technical
Assistance component and shown as a separate
item.
1.10       The local currency provision was raised from the equivalent of
$7.35 million to $22.00 million mainly to suit the above changes based on
revised prices, and to make adequate provision for contingencies. The main
increases were for track rehabilitation, S&T costs, training school and
local allowances for consultants.
1.11       On the whole, the Project was well conceivel.  The
modifications and enhancements were in the right direction but did not go
far enough, particularly in respect of the following '.ems:
(i)  The track rehabilitation remained partial even on the Western
Line. It was known - at least was easily dipcarnable - that at
least 50? of the track on the Western line rEeded to be
resleepered.
(ii) The provision for Locomotives Rehabilitation was thinly spread
out. When ODA was eliminated from the overhat'. and
rehabilitation of English Electric Locomotives, provision for
locomotive rehabilitation should have been in:. reased further,
and some provision made for replacement of mair line
locomotives.
(iii) The project did not include the rehabilitation ir otherwise of
the Central and Eastern Lines, though it appeared that in
assessing the total traffic and the financial viability, the
entire system was taken into account.
(iv) Perhaps these issues would not have come to the forefront if
the Project had commenced in time and completed on schedule.
The railway system had already reached the stage of rapid
deterioration and the delay had doubled the strain on the
system's traffic capabilities. By the time the Project
started, the goods traffic on the Eastern Line had completely
dried up and only a trickle remained on the Central Line. The
captive min?ral traffic on the Western Line had shrunk to 25?
of the normal level. While the fate of Central and Eastern
Lines remained undecided during this period, the staff
continued on the payrolls of the Railway, causing a serious
drain on its resources.



- 18 -
The project provided for two important studies, one on the
costing of the railway system linewise and the second on the
traffic potential of each line. These studies helped
considerably in the mid term appraisal of the first project and
laid the foundation of the TRP, with proper investigation
scrutiny and analysis of investment in these two lines. The
first and second projects together would meet a greater part of
the original plan prepared by GRC.
2.   Obiectives and Main Components of the Prolect:
2.01       The project had two basic objectives from its very inception
which remained unchanged over its various stages of formulation to final
appraisal.
These were:
(i) Rehabilitation of the Western Line and other existing assets of
the Railway system and obtaining improved equipment for GRC to
enable it to function as a viable transport enterprise in the
Western corridor of the country (Tables 1 and 2).
(ii) Improvement of performance and efficiency of GRC by instituting
modern techniques of management and business practices.
2.02        The project was divided into specific activities and programs
as listed below:
Track Rehabilitation
(1) Track Renewal of Western Line
(a) 36 miles of complete track renewal
(b) 87 miles of sleeper renewal
(c) Replacement of 40 points and crossings
(2) Purchase of ancillary equipment for saw mill
(3) Purchase and utilization of quarry equipment for converting
waste stone from gold mines into ballast.
(4) Purchase of track tools and equipment.
Locomotives
(5) Rehabilitation of 36 locomotives and procurement of 4 shunting
locomotives.
Freight Car Modernization
(6) Replacement of 1600 plain journal bearings by roller bearings.



- 19 -
(7)  Acquisition and utilization of additional machines and tools,
and improvement of layout.
(8)   Construction of new diesel loco sheds at Takoradi and Kumasi by
acquisition and utilization of additional machines and tools,
and improvement to their lay out.
Signalling and Telecormnunication System
(9)   Replacement of existing signaling and telecommunication system
on the Western Line by color light signalling and solar powered
equipment, and new telephone and mobile wireless equipment.
Improvement to GRC's Managerial and Business Practices
(10) Provision of modern training facilities for Railway staff
including training of Railway staff in foreign countries.
(11) Technical assistance in operational, financial and technical
areas including provision of a MIS, introduction of cost based
tariffs, accounting, reforms, etc. and installation of a new
computer.
(12) Studies on GRC's traffic potential.
(13) Studies on accounting and costing methods
(14) Studies on utilization of P&T microwave facilities
(15) Formulation of five year transport plan.
(16) Development of manpower resources
Rehabilitation of Wagons and Coaches:
(17) Rehabilitation and repair of about 800 wagons
(18) Rehabilitation and repair of about 90 coaches.
2.03        The freight traffic was anticipated to increase from 690,000
tonnes in 1980 to 1.22 million tonnes by 1985 and passenger traffic to
remain constant at the level of 6 million. The working ratio was expected
to decline from 247Z in 1980 to 1002 in 1985. The staff strength was
anticipated to reduce from 11,200 in 1980 to 6,000 by June 1986.
3.    Proiect Implementation
3.01        The Development Credit Agreement for the project was signed in
mid 1981 and the project was expected to be complete by June 10, 1985.
However, for various reasons, mostly beyond the control of GRC, the Project
could start only in October, 1983 and completion was re-scheduled to the
end of 1986.



- 20 -
3.02       While the main items of the Project, including track works,
rehabilitation of locomotives, managerial improvements programmed for GRC
and studies, etc. were completed as re-scheduled, there were some delays in
the other segments. Some of the completed items also required finishing
touches. The Project as such was almost fully completed by December, 1988.
3.03        The Project was based on engineering surveys and assessments
carried out before 1980 and was approved in 1981. Since the Project
commenced only in October, 1983, the fluctuations in exchange rates (SDRs
to the US dollar) over the years after its approval and increased
requirement of the rehabilitation effort due to its late start, resulted in
time over runs and in a financing gap.  Assessed in consultation with the
IDA at $15.5 million, the gap was met through other sources of funding.
This caused delays in implementation, as many items had to be rescheduled
and procurement programmed as and when funds became available.  A gap of
US$2.5m remained unbridged and postponed the proposed procurement of
mainline locomotives, which had become critical.
Completion of Project Activities (Table 3)
3.04        The Project was divided into 19 main activities for the purpose
of monitoring and control. Of these, the following ten were completed as
per revised schedule.
(1)   Track renewal of Western Line.
(2)   Purchase and utilization of survey equipment.
(3)   Purchase of track tools.
(4)   Rehabilitation of 36 locomotives and procurement of 4 shunting
locomotives.
(5)   Studies on GRC's traffic potential.
(6)   Studies on accounting and costing methods.
(7)   Studies and utilization of P & T Microwave facilities.
(8)   Formulation of five year transport plan.
(9)   Development of manpower resources.
(10) Rehabilitation and repair of coaches.
3.05        The delays in the completion of the remaining activities beyond
December, 1986 are discussed below.
Purchase of Ancillary Equipment for Sawmill
3.06        The procurement of ancillary equipment was programmed and
tenders invited in August, 1985 after specifications had been detailed.
Meanwhile, the gang saw's motor broke down and its replacement became



- 21 -
uncertain. Consequently, the purchase of ancillary equipment was deferred.
Later, the saw tensioner also broke down and the sustained performance of
the gang saw could not be estdblished. It was decided to drop this item
from the project, particularly in the light of constraints on foreign
exchange resources mentioned earlier.
Freight Car Modernization: Conversion of 1600 plain Journals to Roller
Bearings
3.07        The axle turning machine procured for conversion of the
bearings was commissioned in October, 1986. The purchase was ordered in
November, 1984 and the machine was ready for shipment in November, 1985.
However, due to insistence of price verification by Societe General de
Surveillance (SGS), the shipment was delayed and arrived only in March,
1986. There was some delay in finalization of the details of foundation
drawings in consultation with the suppliers after the equipment and
drawings had been received, in March, 1986. There were also delays in the
supplier's engineers visiting Ghana for installation and commissioning.
Three weeks after commissioning, the main motor of the machine broke down
and required replacement and the conversion work meanwhile remained
suspended. The motor was replaced and the machine became operational at
the end of 1987. The output of the machine was not as was expected and
therefore, the progress of conversion of bearings has been slow. Up to
March, 1989, only about 400 bearings (252 of the work) were converted to
roller bearings because of breakdowns.
Acquisition and Utilization of Additional Workshop Machines
3.08        This activity involved the procurement of a large number of
machines and tools. There was delay in procurement due to shortage of
funds and procurement of most of the equipment had to be deferred until
alternative sources of financing had been established. Orders for
procurement could be completed only by December, 1986 and the installation
completed by the end of December, 1987, except for the acquisition of the
80 ton crane.
Takoradi and Kumasi Running Sheds
3.09        The construction work in Takoradi Shed was awarded in March
1985. While excavating for the foundation, soft soil was encountered which
had not been taken into consideration by the consultant while designing the
foundations. The work was suspended in June, 1985 and after soil
investigation and redesign of foundations, it was started again in
November, 1985. The redesigned foundations had to be taken 6 feet deeper,
requiring considerable extra time. The work also suffered for want of
vital building materials such as cement and reinforcing steel.
3.10        The preparation of plans, estimates and tender documents for
Kumasi Shed was inordinately delayed by the consultants and were not
completed until November, 1985. Tenders were then called and a contract
was finalized in January, 1986, with November, 1986 as the completion date.
The work started with full vigour immediately but suffered a set back again
from March 1986 onwards, due to shortage of vital building materials.



- 22 -
3.11       Continuing short supply of essential materials and frequent
modifications in the design of the two running sheds from time to time, has
delayed the completion of the work until mid 1990.
Signalling and Telecommunication (SRT) System
3.12        The contract envisaged a detailed field survey to determine the
precise scope of work, after which the completion date was fixed as 30th
June, 1986 subject to two conditions:
(i)  Deletion of price verification clause from the scope of SGS
inspection, and
(ii) Timely opening of letters of credit, covering additions to the
scope of work.
3.13        The deletion of the price verification clause took nearly six
months and the second letter of credit opened with the Bank of Ghana for
additional works, contained many discrepancies including again the price
ver'Lication clause.  These were not rectified until the end of September,
1985. The letter of credit, therefore, remained largely inoperative
delaying supplies considerably. The revised schedule fixed after
discussions with the contractor in February, 1986, taking into account
these factors, envisaged completion of the project in December 1986.
3.14       At this stage, when additional funds were available, the scope
of the work underwent another change, with speed signalling replacing the
route signalling as earlier envisaged. This, coupled with the temporary
shortages of cement and delays in clearance of materials at ports due to
certain clarifications needed by the MTC regarding exemption of supplies
under this contract from Customs, caused a further set back of two months.
The supply of Home Signal Points with modifications to suit speed
signalling arrangements, decided in consultation with IDA, could start only
by the end of March, 1987. The installation work was completed by December
1987 but there were some problems in final testing and corrections before
its formal commissioning. There were also delays due to cables being burnt
as a result of bush fires. The work was finally completed in June, 1988.
Training Institute
3.15        Construction of the Railway's Central Institute was commenced
in April, 1984 with October, 1985 as the completion date. The contractor,
who had originally agreed in the tender to procure all materials, was
unable to do so and for that reason the work was badly delayed. GRC
stepped in to help the contractor to the extent possible. However, since
the contractor did not evince sufficient interest in speeding up the work
despite warnings and notices, it was finally decided to terminate his
contract in July, 1986. Work was then awarded to State Construction
Corporation which completed the work in December, 1989.



- 23 -
Improvement of Managerial and Operational Efficiency
3.16       Nearly all items of work under this activity which covered
improvements through studies, introduction of systems for reporting,
management, monitoring and control in various aspects of GRCs' operations
were completed as per schedule except the computer which was not installed
and commissioned until June, 1987. While a few areas have already been
computerized, software development and testing with live data for the other
areas is still in progress.
Rehabilitation and Repair of 800 Wagons
3.17       Under this activity, 800 freight wagons had to be rehabilitated
and was to be funded by sources other than IDA and AfDB. The work was
included as part of the project when additional funds were located. This
activity under the project was thus conceived only after funds were
available outside the IDA and AfDB credits. The work was finally completed
in December, 1987.
4.   Changes in the Project after the Effectiveness of the Credit
(a)   Track
4.01        The initial delay in taking up the project necessitated
additional worn out sleepers to be included for renewal.  As a result, the
original scope of resleepering had to be increased to include 61 kms on the
Takoradi-Manso double line section. Likewise, the balance portions of the
track on the Awaso branch line and the Dunkwa-Kumasi section became due and
was included as supplementary work. This additional investment has been
taken into account in the ERR.
(b)  Ancillary Equipment for the Saw Mill
4.02       As already mentioned in paragraph 3.06, this work has to be
dropped as the commissioning of the main Gang Saw became uncertain due to
its defective motor and the tensioner.
(c)   Signalling and Telecommunications
4.03        In 1985, GRC suggested introduction of the Home Signal, in
addition to the proposed last stop Signal. The earlier proposal was to
continue the Home Signal as a Semaphone signal. The change was considered
essential for safety of operations and accepted by IDA. In 1986, another
modification to introduce speed signalling to conform to international
standards was accepted. These two changes brought a significant increase
in the scope of work involving both time and cost over-runs. Another
change that became necessary while the project was under execution was to
have a microwave back-up, as a stand alone surface communication system for
railway operations was not considered adequate. This deficiency was
recognized in the project itself and the alternative of using P & T
microwave as back up was to be studied. The proneness of overhead cables to
bush fires has now become an acute problem. The experience of P & T back
up else where has not been very encouraging for railway operations. It was



- 24 -
therefore decided to add a microwave back up to the present system. The
investment for the back up system has been included in working out the ERR.
(d)  Mainline locomotives
4.04        In the original project, the procurement of mainline
locomotives was not included. However, it became apparent that to meet the
increased traffic, it was essential to acquire additional mainline
locomotives. Two main line locomotives were included in the AfDB Shopping
List. Unfortunately, these were relegated to other sources of funding.
Since the financing gap could not be fully bridged, the locomotives were
not procured. This became critical to the railways' operations.
Acquisition of additional locomotives has become a serious issue in the
light of increased traffic and the over aging of the existing fleet. The
provision of new locomotives has been taken into account in the ERR.
(e)  Rehabilitation of Wagons and Coaches
4.05       While rehabilitation of locomotives was included in the
original project, no provision was made for the rehabilitation and repairs
of wagons and coaches. As the project started, it became apparent that to
meet traffic demand it was necessary to repair waeons. This was added to
the project when additional sources of funding were identified.   The stock
of passenger coaches was very old and it was also considered essential to
replace some of these coaches which were beyond the stage of repairs. To
meet the demand for passenger traffic 130 new coaches were acquired under
barter agreement.
(f)  Acquisition of a new computer
4.06       GRC had an old computer with only two main applications
covering pay roll and some accounting functions. The need for introducing
more areas for computerization was considered essential and particularly
since the old one was giving trouble (with payroll work often having to be
done outside) and required replacement. A new and a bigger capacity
computer to cover 14 functions with 25Z spare capacity was included in the
project.
5.   Procurement
5.01       This was an important and crucial activity of the project which
involved purchase of track tools, fittings and sleepers. Locos and loco
spares and workshop plant and machinery. Replacement of signalling and
telecommunication equipment, however, was carried out on a turn key
contract. All main items were procured through ICB. This ensured
competitive prices and quality. About 49.02 of total procurement (S18.84m)
was done through ICB.
5.02       Procurement generally conformed to the World Bank guidelines
and a tender committee system was set up to scrutinize all purchase and
work tenders. Some of the problems encountered in this area were:



- 25 -
(i)   D.fficulties in getting spares for old locomotives and
equipment, which were out of production and generally longer
delivery periods were quoted by firms for custom-built spares
than anticipated.
(ii) Reluctance of suppliers to accept the SGS price verification
clause, which had to be waived in a number of instances, on a
case to case basis, causing considerable delays in the supply
of materials.
(iii) Suspension of disbursements by AfDB which was almost continuous
from October 1985 to March 1986, thus undermining the
confidence of suppliers in GRC, apart from involving
considerable additional paper work by way of extension of
letters of credit and import licenses, etc. and consequently
delays in supplies.
(iv) Delays in getting approval for evaluated tenders from AfDB due
to inadequate communications. Non existence of a project
agreement between GRC and AfDB was a major contributory factor.
(v)   Fixed period of validity of import licenses did not match the
periods of delivery of long lead items, resulting in their
extensions time and again.
(vi) Difficulties in getting timely supplies of building materials.
(vii) Clearance of imported stores from the ports was often impeded
by late receipt of shipping documents, bill of lading, etc.
from the banks, due to bottlenecks in the postal system. Port
authorities are generally reluctant to effect clearance on
indemnity bonds.
6.   Disbursement and Flow of Funds
6.01       Except for the modifications which have been discussed, there
were no material changes in the activities, as originally planned and the
actual disbursement are given in Table 4.
Flow of Funds
IDA:            There was no difficulty in the release of committed
IDA funds and the total allotments of SDR 23.3 million
was fully utilized.
AfDB:           The total loan was US$10 million Units of Account
(UA). The release of funds by AfDR was, however,
interrupted time and again with suspensions placed by
the Bank on disbursements. This caused considerable
delay in the supply of locomotive spare parts and for
some items of workshop plant and machinery. The
entire allocation was committed except for about eight



- 26 -
thousand pounds which remained undisbursed due to
short supplies, incurrence of lower than anticipated
freight charges, etc.
Government
of Ghana:       The release of the capital grant for the project was
delayed every year. However, almost full requirements
of funds (cedis 2398 million equal to US$22 million)
have been provided by the Government.
Others:         The flow of funds for the project was affected as
mentioned above and a financial gap was bridged
through other sources.
6.02       With the help of the Government, additional foreign exchange
resources were met as under:
RIC I            $6.80 million
RIC II           $3.50 million
Swiss Grant      $1.30 million
French Loan      $0.40 million
ECGD               $0.70 million
TOTAL            $12.70 million
6.03       The financial gap assessed in consultation with IDA was $15.5
million. A gap of about US$2.5 million remained unbridged and prevented
the procurement of two main line locomotives, which, as mentioned earlier,
has now become critical.
7.   Mid Term Re-appraisal
7.01       The project was prepared to meet the urgent needs of GRC based
on the Railway's Investment Plan and the studies carried out by
consultants. However, the project included a further study aimed a.:
assessing the traffic potential and financial viability of each of the
three lines constituting the Ghana Railway System. The objectives of the
study also included fixing separate traffic and financial targets for each
line. On completion of the traffic study, a project report was prepared
for the Central and Eastern Lines. Simultaneously, a mid-term re-appraisal
was carried out on the Western line project. After examination of these
appraisals, separate traffic targets were given for the Western Line for
1988-1995. The mid term appraisal also identified additional investments
needed in the overall system mainly on procurement of new locomotives,
wagons, additional spare parts, plants and machinery, technical assistance
and training for GRC staff, etc, All these investments formed part of the
TRP and have been taken into account in assessing the rate of return. A
fresh set of operating and financial targets have been laid down to monitor
the performance of the Railway. Recognizing that the GRC functioned as an
integrated unit, the financial targets like working ratio, etc. were
readjusted for the entire system ased on its revised traffic potential.



- 27 -
The important targets and performance are:
S/No. Particulars                  1988     1989      1990      1991     1992      1996
1.    Staff at end of
calendar year               7,280     7,020    6,780     6,509      6,3756 8,00
2.    Accounts
receivables
(percentage of
total revenues
at the end of
year)                        -        15X       161       165        15X     10%
8.    Mainline
Locomotive
Availability
(a) More than
10 years old             66        S8        s0        82         83      86
(b) Less than
10 years old             70        71        72         72        73       76
4.    Mainline
Locomoti ve
Km/Day                      220       240       280        265        270    280
S.    We$ns
availRbility
(a) More than
20 years old             el        S0        63         se         69     66
(b) Less than
20 years old            n/.       n/a       n/.        n/.       n/a    n/.
6.    Total ton/km
(million)                  137        172       200        229       249      270
Passen er/km
(million)                  471        602      663        774        821      970
Working ratio               140X      1356      115X        931        se8    781
8.   Effectiveness of Technical Assistance
8.01        Technical assistance was provided in the following areas for
periods varying between 24 months to 60 months.
AREA                                            NO. OF CONSULTANTS
1.   General Management                                              1
2.   Project Coordination and Procurement                            1
3.   Finance and Cost Accounting                                     3
4.   Traffic Operations                                              2
5.   Mechanical Engineering including Pace
Setters for Workshop                                      10
6.   Signals and Telecommunications                                  1
7.   Track                                                           1
8.   Training and Manpower Development                               1



- 28 -
8.02       The Consultants were selected following a review of several
proposals and IDA was represented in the selection of personnel from the
team offered by the Consultants. The overall responsibility for the
execution of the project rested with the top management of GRC. The
working relationship between the Consultants and their counterparts was
excellent during the project execution period. The project targets were by
and large achieved. The consultant performance generally met the
requirements of the rehabilitation project and in achieving the project
benefits. However, in the transfer of know-how to the counterparts, there
appears to be some scope for improvement through better planning in the
selection and placement of counterparts.
9.   Proiect Achievements and Benefits
9.01       Freight and passenger traffic have had a steady growth since
1983 when the Project commenced. Freight traffic which was 375.000 tonnes
in 1984 increased to 743,000 tonnes in 1988 recording an increase of 98z.
The revised target for freight traffic (SAR for the TRP, November 1987) for
the year 1988 was achieved to the extent of 982 as detailed below.
Likewise passenger traffic innreased from 2.2 million in 1984 to 3.5
million in 1988, an increase of 59Z.
Commodity (000)
Tonnes             1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
Cocoa                    16         33         96         70          76
Timber                   23         35         43         43         38
Manganese               252        269        247        238         289
Bauxite                  52        134        207        261        296
Others                   31         39         16         26          44
Total                   374        510        609        638        743
9.02        Government subsidy to (-RC was reduced from 717 million cedis in
1986 to 215 million in 1988.
9.03        The original forecast of traffic, however, was higher - 1.2
million for freight and 6 million for passengers. This higher forecast was
based on the higher volumes of traffic carried in 1978. By the time the
Project actually started in 1983, the traffic levels had dropped sharply
and the mid term appraisal for the project revised the traffic targets.
The steady growth of traffic brought back shippers' confidence in the
system. Mineral traffic, particularly bauxite, responded with much higher
volumes.
9.04        The traffic levels achieved could have been higher but for the
non procurement of the two main line locomotives. The increased
transportation efforts by GRC has helped increase the export earnings of



- 29 -
the country. Compared to 1984, the additional export earnings from
commodities resulting from the higher freight traffic carried by the
Railways are of the order of US$105 million.
10.   Institution Building
10.01      The project has also made significant contributions in the area
of institution building: To recount briefly:
-    A comprehensive MIS designed to suit Management's interest in
monitoring performance, evaluating operations, and shortening
reaction time to urgent issues in operations.
-    A statistical data base has been built up to facilitate
planning and decision making.
-    A system of analyzing costs for different streams of traffic
has been developed to regulate pricing decisions and as an aid
to marketing efforts. This was preceded by a series of
accounting reforms. GRC's tariffs are now cost based.
-    A system of control over expenditure has been introduced to act
as a check on the financial performance of GRC.
-    All this institution building information is in the process of
being brought on to the data base of a fourth generation
computer. In addition, considerable volume of clerical
accounting was switched over to the newly acquired central
computer.
-    Modern maintenance facilities in the sheds and workshops has
resulted in improved availability of locomotives, wagons and
coaches.
-    The GRC is trimmer with its staff strength reduced from 11,200
in 1982 to 7,200 at the end of 1988.
-    A fairly well equipped Training Institute was commissioned in
early 1990 for the training of GRC staff.
-    On the technical side, the system of periodical inspection
scheduled for track, preventive maintenance of rolling stock
and other assets have been laid down. These systems are slowly
being established.
-    The Area Management System is in operation to ensure effective
control over operations and interdepartmental co-ordination at
field level. However, the benefits are still not very visible.
The structure perhaps needs modifications after a further
review.
-    The project has built up staff morale and their confidence in
handling managerial and technical problems.



- 30 -
11.   Economic Evaluation
11.01      The Project was an essential and important element in the ERP.
Vital traffic for export in cocoa, bauxite, manganese and timber through
the port of Takoradi was, to a large extent, dependent on the GRC, as a
well developed and reliable road network was not available for the movement
of entire traffic. Benefits of the project were assessed in turn to
avoided road transport costs. In addition, the investment in GRC, also
provided the benefit of retaining and utilizing the existing assets of the
system. But for the Project, the railways would have run down further,
affecting employment of a large number of employees, and creating social
problems. However, in calculating the ERR no benefit on this account has
been quantified or added to the stream of benefits. The ERR has been re-
evaluated on the following assumptions/basis, (paras 11.02-11.08).
11.02      Focus on Western Line:  The main focus of the Project was the
Western Line (Takoradi-Kumasi) which carried above 95 percent of the
traffic units in 1989. Therefore, though some benefits will accrue to the
whole system, the economic analysis limits itself to benefits from the
Western Line. (The Eastern and Central Lines have become inoperable due to
deterioration. Their traffic share is expected to increase in future after
their rehabilitation, which is presently in progress).
11.03      Concept of a Phased Program:  The Project completed the most
basic physical rehabilitation of the Western Line in early 1989. The
project caused an immediate increase in traffic from 46 m ton km and 189 m
pers. km in 1983 (project starting year) to 126 m ton km and 353 m pass.
km. in 1988. Additional investments are underway under the TRP, and
planned under a future project (1989-94) to maintain and increase t.ae
traffic to projected future levels. Some benefits from this future growth
are partly due to the first Project, as otherwise GRC would have become
inoperable. In view of the nature of thece joint costs and benefits over
time, it is difficult to separate the bent)its from the first Project
alone. Therefore, the analysis '.Lere considers the Project as part of a
phased program and the cost stream includes all rail investments during the
project period and in the immediate future (excluding what is clearly
assigned for the Eastern and Central Lines). Similarly, benefits relate to
the total traffic projected for the Western Line up to 2005. (An analysis
based on future traffic frozen at the 1989 level, and excluding future
investments, yields a higher ERR than the 19 percent presented in this
report).
11.04      Railway Costs:  As noted, in addition to all investments made
in the railways as part of the Project under review to cover track,
signalling, rehabilitation of rolling stock, tre.ining and manpower
development, etc., additional investments were made in the Western Line,
which were not part of the Project as such. These include investments in
acquisition of 130 coaches (on a proportionate basis for the Western Line),
additional resleepering on the Western Line, all investments proposed in
the follow-up projects, such as provision of microwave back up to the
communications system, acquisition of additional rolling stock both for
additional traffic as well as for replacements of overaged assets,



- 31 -
subsequent resleepering of track and investment in S&T after its normal
life have all been taken into account in calculating the ERR.
11.05       Source of Benefits:  With an increasing number of accidents and
derailments, GRC had become unreliable and unsafe by 1983 (before actual
start of the Project), and in the absence of the Project it would have
become inoperable in the next 3-4 years. The alternative traffic mode
would then be by road. Avoided road transport costs are therefore taken as
benefits. These include vehicle operating costs and some avoided road
investments. Vehicle operating costs ara estimated based on detailed work
done ir. Ghana for highway sector planning (and used as basis in the Report
on Railway Economic Appraisal (RITES 1986) and the TRP SAR (1987), duly
updated. The road investments avoided are discussed under 11.06 below.
11.06       Road investments:  Because of the Western Line rehabilitation,
the Government did not rehabilitate the parallel road route from Takoradi-
Tarkwa-Obuasi-Kumasi, using available limited road funds for rehabilitating
roads in other priority areas where there was no rail alternatives and
where the needs were more urgent. The roads in this corridor, therefore
remain virtually impassable. As the World Bank Report on "Road
Deterioration in Developing Countries" (1989) noted, present road traffic
between Kumasi and Takoradi, at present, has to detour through Accra over a
500-km distance. since the 320-km Takoradi-Kumasi road is nearly broken
down; this detour costs about US$18 per ton additional (making an annual
additional cost of US$13 million if the entire 1989 level traffic were
diverted). In the absence of the Project, to carry the traffic,
particularly the ore traffic which is the mainstay of the railway, this
road would have to be reconstructed at a cost of about US$250,000 per km
(based on comparable costs in Ghana). This amount has been already saved
up to 1990. It is assumed that in future (in the 1990s) some modest
improvement will take place in this road, mainly for light traffic, in
contrast to the heavier reconstruction costs needed for carrying ore and
other traffic. Such light rehabilitation may cost about US$80,000 per km.,
with a net saving of US$170,000 per km. The benefit calculations assume a
lesser saving of US$160,000 per km. (in 1987 prices) for 250 kms length of
this road, since the remaining length of this 320 km road is in good
condition. Road reconstruction (in the absence of the railway project) is
assumed to be completed in four years from 1984 to 1988 with expenditure in
the proportions of 20?, 302, 302 and 202 in the four year period.
Maintenance costs of roads have been assumed as worked out earlier in the
Economic Appraisal Report (RITES 1986 and changed for 1987).
(Note: The Kumasi-Anwiankwanta-Cape Coast road which is presently
impassable, is planned to be reconstructed during 1990-94; this road is
about 50 km to the east of the Western rail line, with no road connections
between them, except at Kumasi. This is not an alternative to the rail
route particularly for the ore traffic which is the main component of the
rail traffic; this traffic originates about 200 km to the south of Kumasi
and about 100 km west of the Kumasi-Cape Coast road with no connection to
it).



- 32 -
11.07       Traffic Proiections, Railway Costs:  Future traffic targets of
the SAR for both passenger and freight have been reduced to conform to the
revised projections in the recent TRP-SAR up to the period 1995 and a very
modest increase thereafter up to the year 2005. Traffic data used for this
purpose is in Table 2; there are about 20-25Z less than the earlier
forecast in the original SAR (1981). The method adopted in the TRP-SAR for
the Western Line has been used to calculate costs, changing the variab'le
costs with the change in traffic tonne/kms. No change has been made in the
cost of luggage and parcels for the same reason. Transhipment cost on
railways has been used on the same basis as was used in the report on
Economic Appraisal on Rehabilitation of Western Line (RITES, Dec. 1986),
also used in the economic evaluation in the TRP-SAR (Nov. 1987).  The
reduced level of traffic in cocoa and timber have been considered in the
calculation of transhipment cost.
11.08       Economic Prices:  All costs and benefits are expressed in 1987
prices.  All investments have been converted to cedis at the 1987 prices
using 170 cedis - 1 dollar (1987 rate); the figures for earlier years were
converted to dollars at the ruling exchange rates, adjusted for
international inflation and reconverted into cedis at the 1987 exchange
rate. Essentially, this means that 1987 dollar prices are used for the
analysis, which is justified because of the heavy foreign component in
benefits and costs. All financial cost figures have been converted to
economic costs using the same ratios as worked out earlier in the Economic
Appraisal (1986) referred to above.
11.09       Results:  Taking all conceivable investments required for
moving the traffic up to 2005 on the railways (Table 5), the ERR works out
to 197. This rate is based on the assumption of a phased investment
program, which is considered more appropriate; a separate analysis taking
into account no future investments and no future incremental traffic
(beyond 1989) showed a much higher ERR. The rate of return on the Project
thus clearly establishes that it was well conceived and executed, and will
serve the objectives of the GRC and of Ghana. The new investments in the
TRP as well as proposed investments up to 2003, envisaged in this
evaluation are essential for keeping this line in shape to meet future
demands of growing traffic. Any slippage in investments, would be critical
and create bottlenecks which would have an adverse effect on the economy as
a whole.



- 33 -
161A J0.4
:tt.                            1969          1990           19,1 .992                    1995          2000          2001           2002          2003
IDDsto                      0 304          0.4°8         0.304
Sigl endiZ
eackl..                         1.192         3.652          0.540
LO'..51
Croesa ne
PoteCt on                       1.744
W r                                                                                                 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5
;*spe0  n-                      0.064          4 297         5.021         4 443                        5.0            6.2           S.0
Loeo nsie.
Ashab I;_
tt.oa-n  *tc.                   1.5           2.0            1 S
Loco7t* e
ReruibI eI- 
Class                           3.5
Aegu.-s.tio
oi low
ASll 3.
Dr.CO e-                                      5 2
Coucli..                                      6.5                                         6.0           3.75
Wagon                                          1 5                                        1.776         2.265
*oto  l.324                                   23.757         7 36          I.43           10.376        21.415         0.2           10.5           S S
TAKE NO, 2
AWTC  TARCM (RISm W
Cosoe  ty
C000 tone)                                    1988           1989           9.e0          1991          1q92           1995          2000          20C5
Cocoa                                           65            80             95            100           100            1:0            130           :S0
T .u    .   t                                  30             30             *5             50            Ss              50            e20
ss...to                            29            35             A00            450           So0            500            Soo           200
~4.ro5ns..                                    290            260           260             240           200            200           200            200
10           3J             70              70            80            100           :20            :20
C.s.nt *n4 otleis                               35            40            50              60            65             do           100            :00
etsl Fr.ght
725           795           920             950           070           1050          1130
psa.rngs
(ts.,i n)                                     2.10           2.25          2.50          2 75           2.90          3 00           3 60          a 30
(000 toe)                                      40             45            48            50             52            55             50             T



- II. -
ACTAL APO EX          4 CAL COPLRTIOp
umts GP o,.L611pO4             OATa OF uNT) OP                  PERCedTA    OP OR?CSML
OPAJ01 VW                      CO.eLETION                        MAJOf WO              p
S/No.          Iajo' Work                  Actual          Easetted        Actual         Effect.4
1.    Couplett Track Romme                    al 3i  ale s*s/6                             12/84            1001
2.    Through S ..e.
Reneusl                           80.5 *e1        67  l*e        12/06          12/80             1001
3.      osiacen  @f Pointi
on: C,e. ..e                      43              22             lo/U           12/               1001
A     RQha lItat.on end
On*4hal of Ioco-
m t...                           37              a.            1/U            11/U              1001 (delay i  see^snal)
S.    Proe1mt of Shunt-
^eg l.ocomtm, m                    A               4            12/U            II/U             731
6.    R.hm* I a ttmen ed
'sis;r of migone                 S00 W00                        12/6?            4/6?             731
7     "eho,r     to   ^
7  Aseaslt8t.on and
gsar of coachoo                  0o              e0 /0                         12/U0             1001
S.    Fp*e,ht elf Modenzea
t orn
(con.e*'on of 1600
Pln. s*sfe.n
,:O4JI:) end Qoll.r
Se^epe).                         400       1600 Not yet
dcum I *t      31/12/1           Nil
e.     A*gIcaa.t Uf .ignI-
Inr  and toleco_.
on Western L.. AsL                                                a W" 6/6      12/8S             (     t) N iul. suppl i*d
(b) woS copite        0
10    WonIffih. .Odjeen a.-
tan0,                                                             0/6           12/U              Nil.  Lete step  of
tJ'0 mfok due te
ooucity of funds.
11.    Vcdsrnsat.on o  Run-
n.'g^ Sh*e *
K.urn.                           2               2               K-11/U           1/ST            301
12.   :etellaton of nup                                                    T- 1/00           /44            6111
CoaCutep                         1                                7/6?          12/U              N;l. Co_uter installed
;  Ju ly l67P. fueave.
*'ogeaup under deweleo-
13.   Con.t'uction of
tI.n.  schoeol                   I               1              No%  etA
camp let.d
14.   Study of C.R C. a2/n                                                                lO/U              20
taffe   potetil                  I                               12/U             /6             601 Te,ff;e study  o@gtr
gas goaw.eftd into sroaer
*prea,i41 vpoes end SutUit.
15.   Study of Aceounting                                                                                   wX  .n oo. Ie.
and Caot-nd Methods              1               1                2/U           12/U              lAte.t actual  aomutoril-
lion of accounts glch is me.
IS.   Study of T'T mic.o-
gene                             1               1                : 6            9/68             10014 Firt erort awbatted in
O7.     ene ,ouent of
mango.., ' ,eourca.              I                               12/64          12/6U             1001 Eaceat f;ns ;aetion of
T,?,,nng PoliCy fop  c
lo.   '*Ch..Cal &".stance                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~personnel.
lo.    nachn"cal ase.tance                                                  6/U            9/U              613
10.   T,e^q of CQC Staff                           Io                 O 100  0/U 08/                        633 (100  teff 9/66ally
*l.nn.d f.e. leaned .n
tm.0).



- 35 -
STAT349T OF FORECAST APO APPROXIMATE AC7UAL BPSEmIpr9E
S/No.    Peticulare                         Fo#e1gn           Currency         Locec              Currency           Reaeerke
Forecest          ADDror.          Forecaet           Aapooe.
ACtueI                             Actuale,
UN a              Liss a0C4                           cm
t,on                           7 31               6.637           17.44             1003.82            Work nearly
Ccooe  eed
2 1       Now LocomotivU                     -                 2.210           -                     8.80           CO"Plote
2 2       Rqhob .,,taton of
Locos  nd Spa...              10 g6              116608           4.31                 0.60            Completed
3.        Cood. Rolln-  Stock                1.49              2.639            0.63               159.15           Co.eleted
5.1      Tlkored. LOCO Shad-
ReQodellnA                                                         5.04              300.16            Comlited
5 2       'u-mee  lico Shed-
Remodeling                                                                           215.64            Completed
5 3       Centrol T.rinnng
tnetitutoe                                                       15.37               369.63           Worik in orogree*
5.4       Worbehop and other
4nDot                                                           oe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.ol  Co_le ted
5.5       Steton and
3u Id ng*                      _97                                                                     W*Ur  in proree
6.1       Plant and
Moch n.ry                      5 40               6 736            0.58               39.6s            Completed
7 1       Signals and tel-
com_uneactone                      7 51             13 489           13.57                45.14           Com leted
7 2       Tocnnoei
-etance                        A  0o              4 021            2.e9               s3.30            Comleted
3 3       Tr.en,n    nc l-
411 eou -ent
#r Central
Infti tut                      2 92               2 119                                                Com letea
7 4       Computer                           -                 0 685                                 5 00           Co" I ted
1 5       laneeort Planning
Jn,t                            1 51              0 am0            0.55                0 14            ComplIted
7 6       N., ce*lla ne*ouj
(Po.t nndl ng
Cheogas end
Be.k charges)                                                                         75.97            CoMPleted
42 00             51 237           60.50             23e9.73
~XPAN'ORY'I' NOTE ON TA8LE so. 4
1.       23.3- SOR. end 10- UAa finalIy worked out 8   5i37- end with other 16ne namoly RICI *  6.6..  RICIX * 83.5-.  fD -
0.7e.  foncha Ceant * 8.4. 8nd Soea Cred.t . 81.3. edded ue to 651.237..  The ant re *aat he. ben qent *ecot *oout
5 2-  eh.h is  outotandin.g me.ly  n the fore of  Ceali   credit.  ae h bal nce in  ank,  tc .
2.        The locel Currency eec relessed by Covernment in d,ffe,ent yore go  indiceated beloe along *eth the meareQ. e.chafnee  eat
for the year:
moer           Month                              Amount Relessed                       A,erege Exchenge                 Ecuiselent
(Cede*  A .)                      Rote                               a DaIlra
Per O01l..
1963          Augut                                  10 00                              c30.00                            0 867
Dec eas,                              16.00
1984           July                                 47 .950                             C35.00                            1J356
No,e6 81. 642                                                            C38.50                            2.121
1985          May                                   100.00                              CsO.00                            2 000
July                                100 00                               C53 00                            1 887
September                            80.00                               Cs7 00                            1 404
Na'eeber                              70.00                              C60.00                             1 167
1966           anuery                               50.00                               C90.00                            0 5S5
Februery                            190 00                               C90.00                            2 :11
Octor er                            '92.35                              CIS1  00                           3 261
1Q67           Agueut                              390.00                              C170.00                            2.294
N0.aber                             300.11                              C174 00                            1.725
1Q06           Mer                                    9.69                             ciCs65.00                          0.053
noeme                               200.00                              C230.00                            0.869
1989           (NO yet received)                   274.00                              C270.00                             1. 025
TOTAL                              2411.00                                                                22 686
-~~~~SS_-
_Ess
A.aunt oent between                                                                    Average
181 nd 1986 on the                                                                    L58 Erchenqg
Reneb, .tatlon of                                    12 27                             Rate of 1965                       0 223
coechce                                                                                   CS0
-1                                                                      C-f



- $4 
(CIEDIS MILLION4)
Alt. I                                                             Alt 2
See/No.   Y          cot f  coat of   'ZI    Coto.    coat of   Total    Coat of m' lnt.    rotaI                          Total      Not
Projaot  Railing,  ..astal  Coot        Trm,an.    Coat      Road      coat       Cas-tal  VOC        Coat
Stock     Coat                BAmmeAt              CofAtp.              Cost
I          e198     i852.1               1662.13                        1652.15   1226.46              1226.48             1226 48
2          1Q8       24A1.32             2441.32                        2441.32  1639 72               1639 .72            1639 72
3          1Q66     3616.48              3516.48                        3616.46   18.39.72             1839.72             1839 72
A          1967     2502S    2761 20   5268.72                          5263.72  1243.03               1243.03             1243 03
S          1966       942 39              942.39   1347 68  76.47       2366.51             51 93        51.93  3049s92  3101.65
6          1989      862.91   594 72   1487.68   1448.44   62.06        3016.15             51.93        51.98   3806.10  3880.03
7          1990     1614 '6  2242.94   3657.40   1519.61  86.28         5463.24             51.93        51.93  4100.46  41S2.39
6          1991      1129 37              1129.37   1481.53  67.37      2696.27             S1.93        51.93  4350.60  4402.73
9          1992       879.46              679.45   1498.47  68 51       2266.43             S5.93        51 93  4470. 95  4522.68
10        1993                              0.00   1514.87  89.s6       1604.32             51.93        51.98   4883.93  4*15.86
11        1994                              0.00   lo6. 40  90o.2       1691.22             51.93        51.93  4747 39  4799 32
12        1998                1783.09    1763.09   1606.63   91.12      3460.04             51 93        S1.98   4938.62  4990.53
13        1996                              0.00   1620.03  91.94       1711.97             51.93        51.8   502S.11  507S.04
14        1997                              0.00   1684 24  92.74       1726 98             51.93        51.93  5107.61  5159.54
15          Q9e0                            0.00   1641.45  98.74       1741.99             51.93        51.93  3192.10  5244.03
le        1999                              0.00  1662.66  94 38        1757.00            S5.93         51.93  5276.5s9  532  2
17        2000       764 64  2769 24   35s.as  1676.68   95.15          5325 09             S1.93        51.09   S381.09  5413.02
16        2001       948 15               948.18  1684.7  95.60         2728 42             51.93        51.93  5422.42  u74.35
l        2002      1603.74              1608.74  1692 48  96 01        3394 26             51.93        51.93  543.75  S535.68
20        2003        641.10              841.10  1700 28  96.48        2637 68             51.93        51.93  s5.o07  5s597 00
21        2004                              0 00  1706.09  96 93    N168 02                 51.93        S1 93  5606.40  5658.33
22        2000                              0.00   1715.90  97 37       1813.27             51.93        51.93  S666.52  5720.45



- 37 -
PA R T   I I I



- 38 -
REPUETLIC OF GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1170-GH)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. PROJECT TIME-TABLE
ITEM                    DATE PLANNED            DATE REVISED                DATE ACTUAL
IdentificatIon          April, 1976                                         April, 1976
Preparation             July, 1977               March 13, 1978             March 13, 1978
Appraisal
mission             July, 1978                July, 1987                 July, 1987
Credit
nogotiations        Feb. 2?, 1981                                        Feb. 27, 1981
Board approval (a)      June 26, 1981                                       June 25, 1981
Credit signature        July 20, 1981                                       July 20, 1981
Credit
off-ctiveness (b)  Sept. 22, 1982             Dec. 12, 1982              March 31, 1983
Credit closing          Dec. 31, 1986            De. 31, 1986               Dec. 31, 1988
Credit                                           Dec. 31, 1987
completion (c)      Dec. 81, 1988             Dec. 31, 1988              Dec. 31, 1988
Note:
(a)      Political upheaval in Ghana causod delays in Board presentation.
(b)      Continued political unrest, devaluation of currency and preparatory work for
procurement of goods and services not being comploted in time, effectiveness
of credit had to be deferred twice till March 31, 1983.
(c)      The Project closing date was deferred in two stages to December 31, 1988.
2. DISBURSEMENTS
SDR VERSION - FOR CREDIT ONLY (CR. 1170-GH)
EXPRESSED IN SDR EQUIVALENT
Calendar    Approved             Total for each         Cumulative for         Percentage
year         amount              year                   each year              cumulative to
approved amount
1986          28,366,W60            nil
1981          23,36,060             nil
1982          23,380,06             nil
1983          23,866,066           903,969.52        903,969.62                  3.87
1984          23,300,60O         7,047,175.66      7,961,146.18                 34.12
1986          23,3006,00         8,147,200.82    11,098,346.67                  47.68
1986          23,366,006         7,612,921.21    18,711,267.78                  86.86
1987          23,360,66          2,913,776.61    21,626,644.29                  92.81
1988
(Doe.81)    23,30,6W6           1,636,111.76    28,261,16.604                 99.88
1989
(March)     23,366,666             38,843.96    23, 366,666.66               160.60



- 39 -
8. PROJECT COSTS
(OS1 Million)
ITEM                             APPROVAL 1/              COMPLETION V
1.  Track                                         18.6                           19.23
2. Locomotivo Rehabilitation snd
Froeway Car Modernization                   14.26                         18.06
8. Workshop and ... Modernization                  7.46                          16.76
4.  Tolecommunications                            12.46                          13.23
6.  Training School                                8.79                           4.06
6.  Tochnical Assistance/Studios                   7.41                           6.87
Total                                             64.00                          76.70
1/  Including contingencies.  Source Table 8.2, page 34 of SAR.
2/ Source: AfDB PCR - Annex 4, page 1 of 2.
4. PROJECT FINANCING
SOURCE                            PLANNED         REVISED        FINAL
CREDIT/
LOAN
(US1 *)        CUSS m)        (USS a)
IDA                               29              29             29
Co-financing institutions
(African Development
Bank)                           13              13             18
Other *xternal sources                            12.7           12.7
Domestic (Ghana Gov.)             22              22             22
Total                             64              76.7           76.7
Note: Betwoen Appraisal and Effectivenose  of the Credit, there was heavy devaluation of local
currency and inflation. To fill the gap In projoct financing, Government negotiated
supplier's credits of US212.7 million.



- 40 -
S. ECONOMIC IMPACT
Economic Rate of Return                            Appraisal               Actual
Estimate                (at final devel.)
Underlying assumptions                             32%                     19.13X
1.    Trsck Rehabilitation of Western
Line.
(a)   Altornative cost of provid-
ing adequate road network
was costing and avoidable.
(b)  Bsnefits of utilizing exist
ing assets of roadways.
(c)   Reduction in maintenance
costs and on track and
rolling stock.
2.    Locomotive and workshop improve-
ments contributing to movement
of additional track on the
entire system.
3.    Telecommunication improvements
providing additional capacities
on trunk routes and reducing
detours in train running.
Note: During the 2 years delay in starting the project, all the assets, primarily track,
locomotives, rolling stock and telecommunications greatly deteriorated to a 'without
projoct' situation from where the position had to be retrieved. Devaluation o
currency and high increase is wages, escalated project costs. Mid-term appraisal
estimate was a 12X ERR with extension of project period up to December 31, 1988
enabling full inputs on project components, final ERR is estimated closer to 19X.



- 41 -
6. STUDIES
STUDIES                PURPOSE AS              STATUS                  IMPACT
DEFINED AT
APPRAISAL
1.     Traffic study           To develop              Completed               (1) Development of
of Central,            traffic projec-                                     Central and
Eastern and            tions, Identify                                     Eastern Lines
Western Lines,         uneconomic ser-                                     was found to be
vices to apply                                     productive
remedial measures                                  investments and
to Improve                                         those lines were
efficiency and                                     part of IDA's
viability,                                         follow-on project.
2.     Study of                 (i) To remedy          Completed               (2) (1) Railway now has
Accounting and         deficiencies in                                     a well established
costing mothods        accounting,                                         cost sccounting
budgeting, cost-                                   system.
ing and internol                                   (ii) Separate cost
auditing.                                          analysis was made for
(ii) To overhaul                                   the Western, Central
tariff structure                                   and Eastern Lines
and evolve cost-                                   Statistical Department
based tariff                                       Is strengthened.
revision principles.                               (Iii) Budgeting is more
(iii) To have a good                               scientific.
statistical base for                               (iv) Accounts are compu-
GRC operations.                                    torixad.
3.     Study for link-         To improve train        Completed               This linkage with PAT micro-
ing PAT-microwave      operation on Western                            wave system was found to be
system with Rail       Line, linking of                                feasble.  The plan was not
way telecommunica-    Railway's overhead                               implemented because P&T micro-
tion network.          tele-communication                              wave system is being
lines with PAT net-                            rehabilitated.
work is felt to be
cost effective.
4.     Manpower develop-        (i) To achieve         Completed               (i) Staff strength reduced
ment study             manpower reduction                              to 7900 but the drive is
to 7000 employees.                             continuing
(l i) To have bettor                           (il) No impact yet on reduc-
manpower development                           tion of overtime.
plan on GRC with                               (i11) Staff Incentive schemes
better staff incen-                            not yet implemented.
tives to stem the
overflow of technical
staff to private
sector.
(iii) To reduce over-
time payments.



FeOcel Year       12      13       74       75       76       11       76       7'      so       41I      62       63       84       as      IN        7 S ay011  Tout.
proappre.eel                                                 a 2     44 3     2.4                                                                                               41.9
A.p;eee4a                                                                     51.5    235a    11.3                                                                              U.3
14ggIt atono                                                                                   20.1                                                                             20 1
Sopervwece                                                                                              35 4     1392     20 a     t0o    5$I0       7.5      884      1.2      42 3
Au,.,                                        ~~~      ~~~     ~~~      ~~~~~0 1  056  2 9  5.3  a5  20  2 6         0 1      0 2      0.2                       203
To%* S            0      0 0      0 0      0.0      0.0      1.3    44.6      ".1    206       39 9     to S     211F    2060    204       11t2      717      6 6      1.2    214.9



- 43 -
8. MISSIONS
STAGE OF              MONTH/       NUMBER  DAYS    SPECIALIZATION        PERF. TYPES OF PROBLEMS
PROJECT CYCLE         YEAR         OF      IN       REPRESENTED          RAT.
PERS.   FIELD                         STAT.
1.  Through appraisal       3/18/78    a        6        Economist/           -      Preparation
Fin. Anal.
7/17/78    2      21        Economist/            -      Appraisal
Rail/Eng.
11/27/79    2       7        Economist/            -      Appraisal reviow
Roil/Eng.
2.  Appraisal through       1/16/80    3       10        Economist/           -      Pro-negotiations
Board approval                                      Rail/Eng.                    of Ghana.
4/16/81    1       4         Economist/           -      Streamlining
Rail/Eng.                   Procurement action
3.  Board approvol          6/18/82    2        6        Reil/Eng.            -       Recommended crodit
through offectiv.                                   Fin. Anal.                   effectiveness by
Docember 1982.
4.  Supervision             1/31/83    2       14        Rotl/Eng.            2       Operational perfor-
Fin. Anal.                  mance droppod.
9/27/83    2       6        Rail/Eng.             2      Procurement and
Economist                   studies delayed.
6/21/84    1      10        Railway Eng.          2      Tariff increases
insufficient
2/03/86    1       7        Fin. Anal.            2      Subsidioe and tariff
delayed.
2/25/86    1      12        Railway Eng.          2      Bottleneck in procure-
ment.
4/29/86    1       2        Railway Eng.          2      Manpowor review
6/28/85    1       a        Railway Eng.          2      Drocurement and
studies going slow.
11/28/86    2       10       Railway C..g.         2      -
Fin. Anal.
8/17/86    1       5        Railway Eng.          1      -
Economist
10/06/86    2       6        Railway Eng.          1      -
4/87*      a       na.      Railway Eng.          -      Appraisal of
Economist                   Transportation
Fin. Anal.                  Rehabilitation Proj.
3/88/      2       n.e.    Economist              -      Supervision of TRP
Financier
10/98.      1       n.a.    Economist              -      Supervision of TRP
4/89.      1       n.a.    Economir*              -      Supervision of TRP
e While no supervision reports were issued on the Railway Rehabilitation Projoect, the TRP which
included a railway component, was appraioed and supervised by those missions.



TABLE 9
lieS             i9811             W          11964M                                  965             ma               IW,              f3 
lIEN                          Opri  Actual !  pr  Aktual   AWp   Actual   Appr   Actval '  pr  'Aktval !Appr  Aktual  App  'ktual    pp,  !Actual   Ap                        AtuaI
Luegetsve Ivailabaiati (1I ! G.&.    A.e.    A.e.  ' .a.    a.A.    A iA.    NA.~3 I                 1.a.     36       .e.  !49    ni.e.        9 39 '  e             *            2
!Veam Availability        III!  JOS'2                                                1        29      so       II 30a 4a3 14   s50 B 5          45aso           j3agso    p
a                             aAaiaiit  I  a    a       a7          is   a        a       a 4         Is              15                           a                            .3 4  s  3
'Piu.qe-be(a&iaaa)a)'429    461  a 436   302'  430                  260~   *0        SitA'52          1P 3'         5 9202    339'219           536        35 a36 
'taff Strea,tb   iEopapI,bela lime   10461  aIIIW  a 4 mu   i,M   a 7*39 '0,400 a  ,919   I ,93    1,2?1?   9930 1O,012 I,9111 a,3                     a,0    J,b4a930a  7,j95 
'StaffPr~twt                                                                                                                                                                       
!trafficUVadefiVplyee ONOP 41   '4    '51    '45    555                     44       44   a57         75       23   '1!         36    7s   'n           is      39   '75         .
lowest AN AWpsuul Ippwt. 6C auel AN huemo, kCumAr, 5969.



45  -
41  N  N        U      -  -      - ----------                           - ---
41-
01 ~ ~~~~~~4                  41     II
- -                                      -           - - - -                      - --
_I ,   I      41_          - .      -  -   - -                    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
~~~  ~       ~         3;
tX  ^                    >   " ~uI    s    I'll         <      ~      ee "                      1     
ti         -   -4- -                     -----.                       
If- 
ai                                                                                 I 41  °1
U      If
H   3                                                             a          %   isa
41         *  .44   *            *.    U  *          *     41         * 3*4° 
u   1     go                                                          U   
3u.. -               -     -                        -                _
u *-=u!  Z  4       8|s00 
~~~~ N                                                                                          41'
is    31 ga                6 _   '1 4        ,,^ t. _ ,                     ; S  41 o_
Ii u
3~ ~           -§  -  -  -  -  -  -  -       t -  -  -_      -   -  -  -  -2  -  -               
11    if    it              O. . 1   .                                   41.        **
u1     1                                                                 4     1oj< ^      
to U                                       a    oo            N      1         0
uaU g   - - - - --1--
o 9   aY  ao
N---                                                                     -  U
U           a      a          4  o0 ... GI _                                      _
IIf    4                -n a                                      WI
1                     -- -  -  -  -  -  -   - -   - -
-  -  -  -  -  -  - -   -  -  -  -  -  -            e - N--   - -    U     -
-y      U        "                                               ____             ____
a- a                                                                                                  aN-      
41                                         -                                        41
N                    9l5                      N *<        O       U1   
N                    Ulo ~ ~ o       _N~O _                          t  
41 a _lb ,eO"                                             OO [      
N 5416.aN                                                 6°1l8             N   
7N                             -                       i1 41  -                            
NW -*                                        u   -                           :1   - X - _      i
,  1        414       aid 3a4  .X  °                            a   M- ai 



- 46 -
^.4,
N  N    la,-
:sI    ~           ~~~~~~~ __-_______________
I               -   -  --           -  -       -                      ------                -
-                                                   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
u                                                                                        - 4   o  g  " 88  . 8 71*a
II    II  -  N          --~~              -  -*-  -m-  -S3  -                   -
SI  -  *  ~    ~         ~        --  --            ---        --N -N  
,, _  .  _  "        ^  ,.n       ,                             . A          la
II   ION 'F- '.21 4                                              !S ts                   : _ _    1
1IA                                                                                  1:a1  aa
21    '.     o  X  3-  -                                   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
S~~~~~~~3i~~~~~~~I
u     la                  St -2    aat        t                     
li            *                       N.      *     N 3F-     z*  S ~   8g         
I z - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-- -, ,o     u  s  .             8  R  "       8:        - °   -  - -          i  -  -  -  -  -  -
I         -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -   - -  -   - -  -  -   -
d II*
1 u  *-.11*  *   N1 .   *  .              *                                      I  
*     "      u  "                                                                            1     4
* N      _                 F  - O  -   -      -   -     -     -     -     -     -   * -   -     -     -
3 *   4      NB            OF-      w  1 
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~* _. _N 
ri  431                      F-         444   '.4               -~~~II  * I  P
N     11  0"-  -  -                          - -  --
4                                                                                       -8 u 
U     o y   N*          .8. I                                                         N    *_W4K           o      
N      N _  N -  -  -  -                     4                                           -tN 
I  *
32                                                                              3500 *     l
N               -                                                              N - X |       
N                 U0| 8                                                                   4
__        _      _     __        _     _      _     __        _     _      _



MAP SECTION



z                                                                                                                                                       - d->t .oa
<   X  <   H   X  Z   s   a  .  z  > E   a  1se  .  , .= +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tT.   -l 8- .d k
i. || (   Ell $   >xcv  . e   tk                                          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< RVo l la  * z- v *- 9-a- *-Th.d--.1- - .- 4
GANA~~J    "                                      .~    S                                        'Vy~                            -              oKaa!Tb ..Wd,IdBnn&opd 
\ ToTekofeEaa2K-\OldKumasi -,                                                                                                               - d -
0  KUMASI                                  x Ei                                           '         --            notn,lynth an
LaAwa                                                                                 Lk                         a  r   a n ,ndn,nonMoIT
°\~~  ~~~          f SIAS  8 n ~ Ous          
I oAMas                               Old                                                                                           Volta~
228Kef s Eduanedean                                 (                     K~                      -   omn
CRA                                   Y                   ,p , 
Gtiaf o; Goirwa                                                                                     -'%         4'              ->
Ankwaso__                                          Bekwa Akoom                                                               '   ui                     >,       
wal~~~~~~~a
Kensere ;                                                                                                 SDAM
A'~~~~~~~A
i  Akrokerri                                                    'o                       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOSOMBO
Awaso                                                                                                           DAM ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITE
AWASO  Nkotumso   OUNKWAsa                              -i                /Od-' ZOtm                           - Mangoae
Ankw              Akrofoum  Krus Va 04 -                         Aa,                                           (iPakio
i KokotntBeuan                         'k   ae a iKoaf ornu
apn       V     ale  .                                             -  r                      Amaums  Soabe         K    k'wTo
Imbma rai                  , S cp ns          Hu.,(dm 13 3<<                                     ((iawam           o
I   PBompieso      '9' 
Pcmcia     S~~~onsoka                                A                                           chmt
.u~% ^      porkert Brigade                                                                 Winneba
PaESTE4 DRANCH --.               Oly d  Abaso   
Z1tK      Akontanse U.Aboso
^ r A R KW A  To Twakdi
Nsuta_           85i6 Krr.                            SaltpondO
Esuas                                                                                         GHAo 
Benso>                   Cape Coat0                              FIRST RAILWAY PROJECT
Arnantinl
Manso
ruStodS4xn   K'°r°An    Lcaio                                                                       0       Towns and villages
To hkoreAiO Km.  Adeimbra a6                                                     RAILWAY LINES:           *       Villageswithout road access
Effia Nkwanta e    SKNI___ Central Line                                                     t       Railway halts
X           O ~Axim                     (5                                         ____Western Line                      @      Diesel locomotbve depots
:t~~~~~~~~~~~oot                                                                                                               TOKAKORADITAUBRNC
z ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~~TKRD                                               ___    Eastern Line                 A       Diesel locomotbve and rolling stock workshops      j_
ct                                                                                                                                   RiversD
D  0    10   20   30   40   5.0                                                                                                           _
<  KILOMETERS                                                                         DT
(0                             rO
_K                                                                                                                                           ACCR



